Docum_t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repuru No. 12278
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
(KERALA AND KkRNATAKA)
(CREDIT 1426-IN)
AUGUST 25, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12278
Type: PCR
Population and Humsn Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document hs a retricted distibution and may be Ued by nipients only in the pWformance of
thik oMca duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed withut World Bank authorination.



CURNC EQVS
Name of Currency                                    Indian Rupees (Re.)
Appraisal Year (1983)                               US $1.00 = Re. 9.75
Completion Year (1992)                             US $1.00 - Re. 25.89
FISCAL MM  OF IORROHLR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngt  D.C. 2043M
U.SA
Offe of ODfeotor4oenea
Operations Eveluton
MEMORADUM TO THE EXECUVE DP ORS AND THPRESDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on India
Thrd Population Project (erala and Kamrataka Cedit 142-IN)
Atached is the Project Completion Report on India - Third Population Project (Kerala and
Karnataka) (Credit 1426-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part I was prepared by
the Borrower. The report provides a satisfactory assessment of project achievements.
This project continued Bank support of the Indian Government's efforts to (i) reduce fertility
through icreases in contraceptive prevalence and (ii) reduce infant and maternal mortality and
morbidity through improvements in quality and coverage of maternal-child health services. Its goal
was to'bring two backward districts in two southern states up to state averages with respect to
fertility, morbidity and mortality. Progress tards achieving this goal was satisfactory. Progress in
institutional development was partiaL
Sustainability of this project is considered uncertain because the PCR notes that there has
been inadequate financing at both central and state levels and because of inadequate maintenance
even when fumds are allocated for this purpose. This is a potentially serious problem that needs to
be taken into account in planning future programs.
An audit is planned in conjunction with the fourth project after the latter closes.
Attachment
This documet has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the peformance of
their offcil dutis 1t content may not othewis be diaclosed without World Bank autiaton.



PROJECT CX9DETlON REPORT
IIIDIA
TE)D POPULATION PROJECT (SRAND AND)
(Credit 1426-IN)
TABLE OF coN
PREFACE            .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
1. Background. ......                       ....... 1
2.   Project Description . . . .  .        . .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  . 4
3.   Project Implementation             . . . ...                    5
4.   Pro4ect Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
5.   Project Finance . . . . . . . . . ...    13
6.   Project Results . . . . . .          . . . . . . ..    . . 14
7.   Project Sustainability            ...              .17
8.   Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
9.   Borrower Performance  . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . 19
10.  Issues/Lessons Learned  .           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
PART II BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON PARTS I snd tII  . . . . . . . . . . . 25
PART III STATISTICAL TABLES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
1.   Related Bank Loans or Credits . . . . . . .333
2.   Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
3.   Credit Disbursements  ..       .. .. ...... .. .3 6
4.   Project Implementation  .               . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
5.   Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
6.   Status of Covenants .4B..         ..............48
7.   Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51



PROJXCT C(OPLETION EPORT
INDIA
THUD  POPULQTIO  PROJECT (KERALA AND KARD &TAKA)
(Credit 1426-IN)
These A.s the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third
Population Project for which a credit of SDR 66.3 million (US$70 million
equivalent as of 1983) was approved on December 13, 1983 (Credit 1426-IN).
The credit closed on March 31, 1992, 2 years behind schedule. The final
disbursement was made on August 10, 1992. leaving an undisbursed balance of
US$1.0 million.
Parts I (Project Review from the Bank's Perspective) and III
(Statistical Irformation) of this report were prepared on the basis of a PCR
mission in April-May 1992. Part II comprises comments received from the
Borrower (the Government of India). as vell as from the governments of the
project states (Kerala and Karnataka).
The preparation of the PCR was based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the project legal documents, other Bank documents relating
to the project, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, and project status reports.



- iii -
I;NDIA
TID POPULTION PROJECT
(Credit 1426-I1)
VLUAMTION SUNAR
Objectives and Main features
i.          The Third Population Project was the third in a series of Bank-
supported population projects in India; the first became effectixve in 1973,
the eighth has been approved by the Board on June 18, 1992, and is awaiting
signing of legal documents, and a ninth project is currently under
development. The project was implemented in six districts of Karnataka and
four districts of Kerala as part of an effort by the Government of India to
obtain external assistance to strengthen the national family velfare (family
planning and maternal-child health) program in backward districts of selected
states. As with the First and Second Projects, the goals of the Third Project
were to achieve reductions in fertility through increases in contraceptive
prevalence and reductions in infant, young child and maternal mortality and
morbidity through increases in quality and coverage of maternal-child health
services. Construction, equipping, furnishing and staffing of facilities to
assist in expanding and strengthening service delivery were supported by
training, demand generation and program management components.
Im2lemfLntatioM Experience
ii.         The project's physical goals were essentially achieved within the
project's rupee budget, which was entirely expended but not exceeded. In
Kerala, civil works were completed promptly and additional works were
undertaken using project savings. In Karnataka, construction was delayed and
completion of planned civil works required a 2-year extension of the credit.
Implementation of the training and information, education and communication
(IEC) components in both states was carried out successfully, although
management information system (MIS) goals were not achieved.
Results
iii.        In the Kerala project districts, contraceptive prevalence
increased from about 201 in 1984, prior to the project, to 50% in 1991,
immunization of children from 202-351 to 652-901, and delivery assisted by a
trained person to over 80%, more than achieving project goals and largely
bridging the gap between the project districts and the rest of the state. In
Karnataka, project family planning goals were not achieved, contraceptive
prevalence increasing only from 26% to 40% in 1991, and the gap between the
backward northern districts and the more developed southern part of the state
widened over the project period. MCH goals, however, can be considered to
have been more nearly reached. In neither state wac a substantial increase in
the use of temporary contraceptive methods achieved.



- iv -
iv.         Good project results in Kerala must be attributed to both project
and more general factors. Prompt achievement of project physical targets
created an infrastructure in the hilly and backwara project districts that
provided the basis for a substantial expansion of services. However, project
success in Kerala also owed a good deal to the general situation of the state,
particularly very high literacy rates and extensive demand for medical
services. The northern Karnataka project districts, on the other hand, in
many ways resemble parts of north India more than they do the mvwh better
developed southern part of Karnataka. In these districts, it is unlikely that
more rapid progress by the family welfare program can be expected and the gap
between the northern and southern parts of the state bridged until basic
program constraints are addressed through measures such as those included in
the project's proposed service delivery strategy, which was never implemented
(para. viii).
Sustainability
v.          The difficult financial situation of the Government of India
requires the Bank to be more cautious than previously regarding the
sustainability of population projects. Although the family welfare program is
currently a 1002 centrally supported scheme, neither continued expansion of
central support for family welfare not indefinite continuation of 100X central
support can be assumed under current circumstances. In addition, our
cumulative experience as well as recent sector work indicate serious problems
in sustaining investments ir. the family welfare and health programs due to
inadequate financing at both central and state levels. It has become
increasingly importatst for the Bank to ascertain that existing projects can be
sustained before embarking on additional population lending.
vi.         The reviews of the First and Second Projects both identified
maintenance of buildings constructed under the projects, which is a state
responsibility, as an issue. Maintenance of large numbers of small, scattered
health facilities is difficult for the states, and the record is poor even
when funds are -,.located for the purpose.  Unless means of ensuring state
funds and securing the cooperation of the state public works departments can
be developed, prospects for long-term maintenance of health facilities are
poor.
Iesues/Lessons Learned
vii.        The review of the Second Project noted the need for consistent
B    policies to deal with the issue of unexpended credit balances resulting
from exchange rate changest. In the Third Project unexpended credit balances
again emerged as an issue to which Bank, GOI and state project staff all had
to devote considerable time and attention. It would seem apparent that, if
unexpended credit balances in IDA projects in India are not to be cancelled,
the Bank needs to develop a clear and effective alternative for dealing with
this recurrent issue. If this is not done. difficulties will continue to
arise across the IDA portfolio as projects near completion.
viii.       Like its two predecessors, the Third Project was only a small part
of the larger national family welfare orotram. The project was not designed



- v -
to have an impact on the underlying problems of the national program.
including weak and overcentralized program planning and management and focus
on sterilization at the expense of temporary contraceptive methods and
maternal-child health services. An effort to address these constraints at
state level through the development of a service delivery strategy that
included expanded MCH services, prioritization of clients and tasks, fixed
work routines for field workers, and strengthened supervision was aever
implemented. If Bank projects are to have some effect on program strategy and
constraints, it will be necessary to build into future projects national and
state-level components specifically intended to address the basic
difficulties. A beginning in this direction has been made in the recent
national Child Survival and Safe Motherhood (CSSM) Project.
ix.         Some of the groject design and implementation issues identified in
the First and Second Projects were successfully addressed in the Third
Project. Project design was modified to move away from the Area Project
model, which in the Second Project had limited project support to specified
districts and did not permit the project to address key issues at state level.
In addition, project Governing Boards empowered to take financial decisions on
the part of their state governments vere constituted; adequate technical
support for project IEC components was obtained; and development of systematic
in-service training for program staff made considerable progress. All of
these factors had a salient impact on project implementation.
X.          In addition, there were a number of innovative and noteworthy
developments in the Third Project, particularly in the project IEC programs of
both states.  In -irala these included orientation of madrassa (Muslim
religious school) teachers in health and family welfare subjects, which proved
an effective means of reaching the Muslim community and appears to have been a
factor in a substantial change in attitudes toward contraception. In
Karnataks, a step-down system for in-service training utilized monthly
meetings of field staff in an effective fashion. Also, an innovative set of
radio dramatizations of family welfare messages with provision for audience
participation via post cards broadcast in the Karnataka project area attracted
excellent participation.
xi.         On the other hand, a program-project split which hampered project
implementation and continuity was evident in the Third Project, as it had been
in the two earlier projects. This problem has been resolved to a large extent
in the Sixth and subsequent projects, in which there is no longer any
designation of project districts. In Karnataka, failure of the project's
Governing Board to meet regularly resulted in implementation bottlenecks, and
quality of construction by the state Public Works Department was
unsatisfactory in many instances. Difficulties in monitoring site selection
for subcenters were experienced in both states. Monitoring of site selection,
design of facilities and supervision of construction are also issues in other
project states. If these civil works problems are to be addressed in a
consistent fashion, it will be necessary for the Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare and the Bank to develop a coordinated approach at both project
preparation and supervision stages.



- vi -
Ceneral Aeesmt
xii.        Overall, the project can be rated as "satisfactory."  The project
budget was expended, physical targets vere met without cost overruns,
institutional development and impact objectives were achieved to some extent,
and under present circumstances it seems possible to address sustainability
concerns.



PROJECT CFeLETlON 3REP&
IIDIA
ThR  POPmaION PROJECT
(Credit 1426-I})
PART 1. PROJECT REvIEW nR@I ANK'8 ISERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name                               Third Population Project
Credit No.                                 1426-IN
Date of Credit Effectivettess             May 8, 1984
Credit Closing Date                       March 31, 1992
Total Project Cost                         US$ 123.5 million
Foreign E7change Component (Appr. Est.)   US$ 12.3 million
IDA Credit                                 SDR 66.3 million
IDA Credit. Total Disbursed                SDR 65.5 million
IDA Credit, Total Canceled                Not yet known
RVP Unit                                   South Asia
Country                                    India
Sector                                     PHN
Subsector                                  Population
Background
1.        The First India PggDlation Pro1sct.  The first Bank-assisted
population project in India, supported by an IDA credit of US$21.2 million and
a (Swedish) SIDA grant of US$10.6 million, became effective on May 17, 19. .
It resulted from a request from the Government of India (GOI) in 1969 for Bank
assistance in developing a comprehensive family planning demonstration
project. The project was implemented in six districts of Uttar Pradesh and
five districts of Karnataka, the two states representing different levels of
socio-economic development. The project provided for the completion of the
health infrastructure in theee districts. Project inputs included the
construction of health facilities, paramedical training schools, provision of
equipment, furniture and vehicles, and support for incremental staff salaries,
overseas training, and operation and maintenance costs.
2.        The project was planaed for 5 years, with the credit to close on
June 30, 1978. Following project effectiveness, implementation proceeded
steadily. In 1976-77, as project civil works were being completed and
supporting institutes were becoming functionally effective, intensive family
planning drives were launched under the Emergency (1975-77). These drives in
effect negated the experimental aspects of the project, masked the results of
project inputs, and made evaluation of project impact difficult. In view of
Emergency disruptions, the credit vas extended by 2 years and closed on
June 30. 1980. The entire IDA credit and the SIDA grant were expended.



3.        The project was reviewed in a Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR) dated January 1982 (No. 3748). The PPAR noted that because of
weaknesses in baseline data and the difficulty of linking program achievements
to project inputs, it was difficult to draw firm conclusions about project
impact. The report concluded that in terms of family planning performance
there was little significant impact.
4.        The Project Completion Report and the PPAR identified the following
lessons learned from the first project: (i) the project was set up in a way
that resulted in an undesirable split between project and program management;
(ii) strengthened professional supervision of civil works and establishment of
strict criteria for the siting of subcenters were necessary; (iii) program
planning and management were weak and needed to be decentralized; (iv) service
outreach constraints included overly large service areas for subcenters
(10,000 pcpulation), limited staff mobility and shortage of female medical
officers; (v) more emphasis was required on demand generation activities,
which needed to be based on local circumstances and coumunity participation;
(vi) MCH activities needed to be accorded equa'. importance with faUily
planning and the links between the two recognized and exploited.
S.        Second India PoDulation Proiect.  The central government elected in
1977 after the Emergency period indicated that despite opposition to any
element of coercion in family planning, it wished to continue support for the
program on a voluntary basis. The program was renamed "Family Welfare' to
reflect the inclusion of maternal-child health services, and efforts were made
to obtain external assistance for accelerated program development ("Area
Projects') in "backward' districts. Under the IDA-supported project,
assistance was provided to six districts of Uttar Pradesh and three districts
of Andhra Pradesh. At about the same time, GOI also obtained support from
UNFPA, DANIDA (Denmark) and ODA (UK) for Area Projects in five other states.
The primary objectives of the projects were the achievement of reductions in
fertility and infant, young child and maternal mortality and morbidity.
6.        The project was planned for 5 years.  The credit became effective
on July 26, 1980 and was scheduled to close on March 31, 1986. To utilize
exchange rate savings, the credit closing date was extended for 2 years, to
March 31, 1988, and project activities were extended to other districts of the
two states. The Second Project reflected the expansion of subcenter coverage
from 1:10,000 to 1:5,000 population under the Sixth Five-Year Plan, thus
addressing one of the issues noted in the review of the First Project.
Project inputs were similar to those in the First Project anad included the
construction of facilities, provision of equipment furniture and vehicles,
support for incremental staff salaries, training, and operation and
maintenance costs. The development of management information systems,
management training for medical officers, and information, education and
communication components were key features.
7.        The project was reviewed in a PPAR dated June 29, 1990 (No. 8896).
The project completion report noted a number of difficulties/lessons learned
from project implementation, including the difficulty of monitoring site
selection and construction; the need to avoid having to obtain line-by-line
clearance by state Finance Departments; inability to obtain maintenance andlor



repairs of equipment and vehicles; the need for systematic in-service
training; the need for management of IEC components by technically competent
staff and for decentralization of materials development; and the need to deal
with program management problems at state rather than district level. Both
the PCR and the PPAR also noted that improved project implementation is
unlikely to make a significant difference in program outcomes until more
fuz.damental problems with the Indian family welfare p-3gram, especially the
focus on sterilization at the expense of temporary contractive methods and MCH
services and the target system that drivei it, are addressed.
The Third India Population Project - Background, Oblectives and Development
8.        The GOI raised the possibility of a third India population project
with the Bank in 1981, as part of an effort to expand external support for
Area Projects. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) proposed
that, using the Area Project model, a third Bank-assisted population project
should be developed in the backward northern districts of Karnataka and
backward and/or hilly districts of Kerala. There was no doubt that tte
northern Karnatakae districts were backward compared to the more developed and
progressive southern districts. And although demographic rates and social
indicators in Kerala were by far the best in India, somewhat surprisingly in
the hilly, substantially tribal districts of northern Kerala and the Muslim
majority district of Halappuram, these indicators were even lower than they
were in the northern Karnataka districts. As in the previous population
projects, the primary objectives of the third project would be .he achievement
of reductions in fertilitv levels through increases in contraceptive
prevalence and reductions in infant, young child and maternal mortality and
morbidity through improvements in the quality and coverage of MCH services.
9.        The project was developed quickly.  Initial project proposals were
made available to a Bank supervision mission in October 1982, and a small Bank
team then visited Bangalore and Trivandrum to initiate state-level
*discussions. In December 1982 a project preparation workshop was held in
Bangalore with participation by project officers from the Second Project
states of Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh as well as GOI, state and Bank
representatives. Modified project proposals were subsequently sent to the
Bank and provided the basis for an appraisal mission the following April.
10.       Proposed project content was generally similar to that of the
Second Project. Although there was no sector work input, experience from the
Second Project was thoroughly discussed at the Bangalore workshop and provided
the basis for modifications in project design. It was already clear from the
Second Project that because the family welfare program is managed and
implemented at state level, many evident problems could only be tackled on a
state basis; support limited to project districts (the Area Project model) was
not an effective strategy. This lesson from the Second Project was
incorporated into the design of the Third Project to some extent, although
project IEC and training components were still limited to the project
districts.



-4-
Prolect Description
11.       The Third Project was organized in terms of the family welfare
norms established under the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85). The system of
rural primary health care was based on the primary health center (PiC), which
provided curative and referral services for a population of a rural
development block, or approximately 100,000 people. More specialized referral
facilities were to be provided by district and medical college hospitals. The
service delivery system called for:
(a) a subcenter staffed by one male and one female multipurpose worker
per 5,000 rural population (3,000 ;.n tribal or hilly areas);
(b) one supervisor per four workers;
(c) a subsidiary health center (SHC, later called a new primary health
center) staffed by one medical officer and associated staff per
30,000 population;
(d) a primary health center (later called an old or block-level PHC)
staffed by three medical officers and associated staff per 100,000
population;
(e) an upgraded PHC or community health center (CHC) staffed by two
additional specialists, e.g., pediatricians and
obstetricians/gynecologists.
The female multipurpose worker's primary duties were to provide MCH and family
planning services, while the male worker was to promote hygiene, sanitation
and other public health measures as well as family planning. They were to be
supported by one trained traditional birth attendant and one community health
volunteer (ClV) per 1,000 rural population. The introduction of subsidiary
health centers and upgraded PHCs was to be accomplished gradually.  In the
first stage, represented by the project, two existing dispensaries in a block
were to be upgraded to subsidiary health centers, and one of every four PiCs
was to be upgraded to a community health center.
12.       The project had four major functional components:  (i) service
delivery; (ii) demand generation activities; (iii) monitoring, evaluation and
operational research; and (iv) project management. With project support, the
service delivery infrastructure indicated above was to be implemented in the
designated project districts (para. 8). In addition, MIS and population
education components were to be carried out on a state-wide basis, while
project IEC and in-service training activities were to be limited to the
project districts. These components were supported by the following inputs
(see Part III, Section 4 for details):
(a) Service Delivery - construction and refurbishing of subcent2rs,
SHCs, PHCs, CHCs, and maintenance uorkshops, provision of
furniture, equipment and vehicles, training and retaining of staff,
incremental costs of additional staff and maintenance of equipment



- 5 -
and vehicles, to extend and improve the coverage of family welfare
services;
(b) Demad Generationt
(i)  provision of community education, IEC materials, the
production, pAinting and distribution of films, training and
retraining of staff, incremental costs of additional staff,
furniture equipment and vehicles, consultant fees and study
tours to carry out the IEC component;
(ii) training of lecturers, provision of population education
booklets and materials, incremental costs of additional staff
and payment of honoraria to lecturers, study tours, furniture,
equipment and vehicles to carry out the population education
component;
(c)  Monitoring. Evaluation and Operational Research - support for
longitudinal sample surveys, introduction of a management
information system, and operational research studies, including
incremental costs of additional staff, printing and processing
costs, furniture equipment and vehicles, to provide basic
demographic, health and program information to assist program
planning, monitoring and evaluation; and
(d) Proiect Management - furniture, equipment and vehicles and the
salaries of additional staff required to implement the project
efficiently.
13.       The project was planned for a 5-year implemGartation period covering
the Indian financial years 1984-85 through 1988-89. Expected increases in
several family planning and maternal-child health process indicators
(contraceptive prevalence, delivery attendance by trained persons and
immunization coverage of children) and one impact indicator (infant mortality)
by the end of the project period were specified (para. 53).
Project Implementation
14.       In contrast to the Second Project, when substantial delays were
experienced in getting project activities underway, the Third Project got off
to a satisfactory start, especially in Kerala. Kerala Government Orders
necessary to initiate project activity were issued in September 19"), less
than 6 months after the April-May appraisal. Most preliminary activities were
taken in hand; construction activities started in December 1983 and site
selection and submission of architectural drawings for approval proceeded
rapidly. In Karnataka, progress was slower, a contrast that was to
characterize the entire project. Government Orders were not issued until
January 1984, and the transfer of officers who had been associated with
project preparation created additional delays. Although the initial
activities carried out by the Population Center Bangalore went forward, the
key construction component was not organized promptly.



- 6 -
15.       In 1988, a review of project expenditures in Kerala indicated that
project savings of about 80 million rupees could be expected. The savings
resulted primarily from early completion of civil works together with salary
savings for female field workers who were appointed between project appraisal
and effectiveness and were therefore paid from regular program rather than
project funds. These savings were reprogrammed, largely for additional
construction but also for maintenance of facilities constructed early in the
project and for additional support to project activities. In Karnataka,
delays in the implementation of the civil works component resulted in
increased costs, which were met from salary savings similar to those in
Kerala. The entire project rupee budget was expended but not exceeded.
16.       The project's original credit closing date was March 31, 1990, by
which dAte with the exception of civil works in Karnataka the project's
physical targets were almost all achieved and the rupee budget expended. The
credit closing date was subsequently extended by 2 years, to March 31, 1992,
for reasons having to do primarily with unexpended credit balances (para. 75),
although the extension also permitted the completion of civil works in
Karnataka. Since implementation was largely completed, the Government of
India essentially closed the project on July 1, 1990, with the exception of
part of the construction unit in Karnataka and skeleton staff for end-of-
project purposes.
17.       Implementation of the project was by and large along the lines
anticipated in the staff appraisal report (SAR) and project implementation
volume (PIV). Project physical targets and achievements are summarized in
Part III, Section 4. Targets for civil works, equipment, furniture and
vehicles were almost completely achieved. Reflecting the circumstances of
each state and the lessons of experience, implementation of the IEC and
population education components differed in some respects from the project
documents but retained project objectives. Pre-service training of field
workers and management training of medical officers was along expected lines.
It was anticipated that in-service training for all staff would be available
every 2 years. This goal was not achieved, but extensive in-service training
was carried out in both states and progress was made towards
institutionalization of such training. In both states, the introduction of a
management information system (MIS) was the weakest component: the planned
state-wide implementation of MIS including simplified subcenter registers,
consolidated reporting formats and feedback mechanisms was not accomplished in
either state. A more detailed discussion of the implementation of each
project component in the two states is given in the following paragraphs.
Kerala
18.       Service Delivery.  The project's civil works component was carried
out by the Kerala Health Research and Welfare Society (KHRWS), an autonomous
organization under the Government of Kerala that has been given responsibility
for construction of health facilities in the state. The work of the KHRWS
proved to be generally quite satisfactory, and the construction planned under
the project (Part III, Section 4) was completed well before the end of the
original 5-year project period. When project savings were reprogrammed in
1988, the KHRWS obtained the services of a consultant architect, which



- 7 -
generally facilitated the construction carried out under the reprogranmming and
in particular resulted in an improved subcenter design that was subsequently
adopted in other states.
19.       The Third Project used the criteria for location of subcenters that
were developed for the Second Project to avoid siting problems evident in the
First Project. However, the end evaluation survey indicated that, as in Uttar
Pradesh in the Second Project, difficulty was experienced in obtaining
satisfactory donated land, resulting in siting of about 25 percent of
subcenters that did not conform to the schedule of accommodations given in the
PIV.
20.       The equipment situation at subcenterg indicated by the end
evaluation survey was not very satisfactory. Of 20 pieces of subcenter
equipment listed in the project implementation volume, on average only half
were found in a sample of subcenters. Weighing scales, hemoglobin tel-ting
equipment and lOcc syringes were found to be in shortest supply, and only the
supply of 2cc syringes could be called really good. The survey also assessed
the availability of supplies and medicines at subcenters, although these were
not supported under the project. As is typical of subcenters in India, family
welfare supplies were by and large available, while standard drugs were in
short to very short supply..
21.       Project staffing targets were by and large met.  The additional
posts indicated in the PIV were sanctioned, and the end evaluation survey
found that in the project districts 80 percent to 95 percent of posts for
seven of eight key positions were filled, although only 60 percent of male
field supervisors were in post. However, with the exception of female field
workers, turnover rates were quite high. The nurse-midwife (ANM) training
schools established in the project districts recruited only local trainees,
and once local ANMs were appointed to posts in their home districts turnover
tended to be low.
22.       Trainin.  Pre-service training of planned numbers of female field
workers (ANms) and male field workers was carried out as anticipated, as were
promotion courses for the post of female field supervisor.
23.       A skills gap survey was carried out at the beginning of the project
to assess training requirements of field workers and plan in-service training
accordingly. All field workers and field supervisors in the project districts
subsequently received a round of in-service training. In 1988, given the
large number of workers who had taken up posts since the previous survey had
been conducted, a second skills gap survey followed by training was carried
out. The end evaluation survey included a field assessment of the skills of
female field workers, field supervisors and public health nurses attached to
PHCs. The investigators concluded that the staff assessed were generally well
trained and that more than 90 percent were able to carry out satisfactorily
the procedures they were asked to demonstrate. No major gaps in knowledge or
skills were identified. It was observed, however, that in discussing the
management of high-risk pregnancies, female field workers rarely mentioned
preventive care and demonstrated a clinical bias in their training.



- 8 -
24.       A wide variety of other in-service training was also carried out
under the project (Part III, Section 4), including specialist training for IEC
staff and management training for PEC medical officers.
25.       Information, Education and Comuaication (INC).  The IEC component
in Kerala was generally implemented as set out in the staff appraisal report.
The strategy was developed with the assistance of a consultant, a Keralite on
the faculty of the Indian Institute of Mass Communication in Delhi. The
purpose of the component was defined as generating desard for family welfare
services through creation of awareness and need. The emphasis was on taking
account of the social and physical characteristics of the different project
districts in designing materials and planning activities, promoting local
participation to the extent possit-e, and revising strategies as required on
the basis of feedback. Annual action plans emphasized different segments of
the population and reflected program priorities. For instance, in the first
2 years of the project the emphasis was on involving youth and on temporary
family planning methods.
26.       Family Education Centers (FEC.) played a key role in the IEC
strategy. Three or four PECs per subcenter, each covering about 200 families,
were organized in the project districts. In localities where women's
organizations (mahila samaiams) already existed, one member of the samajam
became the organizer of the FEC. Where they did not exist, ANMs identified
local influential women and persuaded them to organize the FEC. About two
thirds of the organizers were recruited in this way. All FEC organizers were
given 3 days' training.
27.       FECs were involved in a variety of local informational, educational
and family welfare activities including the orientation training camps (OTCs)
carried out by IEC staff and the organization of immunization camps, where
their assistance in bringing dropout cases was particularly useful. Their
effectiveness is indicated by the finding in the second skill gaps survey that
80 percent of the ANMs used FEC. to promote family welfare services. FECs
also played an essential part in the organization of periodic health festivals
which included film shows, exhibitions, medical check-up camps, cultural and
entertainment programs, competitions and so on. These festivals, which were
relatively inexpensive and very popular, were judged to be one of the most
successful of project IEC activities.
28.       An IEC effort of particular interest was a training program for
madrassa (Muslim religious school) teachers. Muslim-majority Malappuram
district alone has about 25,000 madrassa teachers who have great influence on
the social and family lives of members of the Muslim community. A half-day of
training in health-related subjects was made available to these teachers, who
subsequently asked for additional presentations by doctors and other
specialists on maternal and child health concerns. Madrassa teachers also
became active in the organization of immunization and medical check-up camps
under madrassa auspices. It is worth noting that in the baseline survey
53 percent of respondents in the Malappuram reported religious objections to
the use of family planning, while the corresponding figure in the end
evaluation survey was 3 percent.



- 9 -
29.       Per the targets in the PIV, IEC equipment was obtained and a
variety of IEC materials were produced (Part III, Section 4). Problems
reported appear to be typical. It was not possible to produce 35mm feature
films for the program, and 16mm film projectors for use at PHCs were out of
order at least half the time. Although quantities of educational materials
were available in some places, in one of the project districts there was no
trace of them.
30.       The experience in other states of India that program managers do
not appreciate the potential role of IEC was also evident in Kerala. In
addition, the mass educational activities organized under the project require
far more effort than do the organization of orientation training camps for
limited audiences, and it was evident that district and PHC-level TEC staff
tended to prefer the latter to the former strategy. In some instances,
existing INC staff in the project districts did not cooperate at all with
project activities and trusted that they would disappear when the project cane
to an end. Efforts to have PUC medical officers monitor IEC activities at
'their facilities were not successful. When the project was closed in 1990,
project IEC staff was absorbed into the state family welfare unit and all mass
media project-related ESC activities in the project districts came to a halt.
To what extent any of the project activities will be pursued in the project
districts and expanded to other areas is not known.
31.       Population Education.  The population education component was
carried out through the directorate of college education, which was able to
reach some 200,000 students in 100 colleges in the state through a series of
lectures and workshops, and through the Kerala Association for Non-Formal
Education and Development (RANFED), a voluntary organization active in the
areas of literacy and non-formal education. Project targets for production of
materials and activities were met, although an evaluation study indicated that
KANFED programs in the area of population education were not very effective.
32.       Hanaement Information System (MIS).  Project MIS goals were not
entirely achieved. A state-wide system was designed with the assistance of a
consultant from the Indian Institute of Management Ahmadabad. The objectives
were systematization of recording of service data at field level, its rapid
transmittal to and aggregation at higher levels of the system for use by
managers, and the provision of feedback information. A consolidated reporting
format from PHCs directly to state headquarters was developed first but was
never completely or successfully implemented. This was followed by the
introduction of a set of five simplified subcenter registers designed to link
mother and child records to the family record, thus providing a comprehensive
data base. A study of the maintenance of registers carried out in 1989 showed
that about half of the field wor rs were maintaining their registers
regularly and properly and that    h additional training this proportion could
be easily improved. There is no -jubt that the set of registers, which
greatly facilitates recording of data by field workers, is an important
improvement over the previous system.
33.       Although the project MIS component covered the entire state, it ran
afoul of project-program difficulties as did the IEC component. Rather than
strengthen and work through the family welfare statistical unit (the



- 10 -
Demographic and Evaluation Cell) and introduce the MIS as a modification of
tht existing system of data collection, the project urit kept control of MIS
(and the associated computer) in its own hands. It is hardly surprising that
the D&E Cell, the State Vital Statistics Cell (the state health statistical
unit) and state program officers who required PHC data were unwilling to be
dependent on the project unit as the source of their program information.
34.       In 1989 the Government of Kerala, recognizing that the state's
three health and family welfare statistical units were functioning
independently without coordination, ordered an amalgamation of the three units
as the State Health Information Cell. In practice, however, it was clear than
real intexration could not take place until the project office was finally
closed. After this happens in mid-1992, it is possible that an integrated
state health statistical unit may be able to use the MIS components developed
under the project to establish a functioning system.
35.       Research Studies.  Impetus for research studies came largely from
the GOI, which circulated lists of studies done in other states or projects
and requested that similar studies be carried out. The research coordination
committee established under the project found it difficult to assess the
capacities of private research institutions, of which there were many in
Kerala, and in any event was reluctant to go to the private sector. Some 12
studies were eventually carried out (Part III, Section 4), three by the
Institute of Management in Government, a public sector organization, and nine
by project staff. Studies covered all major aspects of the project including
training needs, service coverage, IEC effectiveness and MIS.
36.       Proiect Management.  In Kerala, the Director, Health Services held
the post of project coordinator. This arrangement could have had unfortunate
results, since such an officer is always extremely busy, and throughout the
project period the turnover in the post due to retirement was very high. In
fact, an officer of joint secretary rank was specially selected as state
project officer early in the project and was able to provide continuity and
leadership for the rest of the project period.
Karnataka
Service Delivers
37.       Civil works in Karnataka were entrusted to the Public Works
Department (PWD) of the state. From the first year of the project, the civil
works component was behind schedule. Difficulties in appointing staff to the
construction unit were experienced, and consequently the preparation of
architectural drawings and subsequent construction were delayed. By 1988
project management considered that the PWD would not be able to complete all
of the construction and turned over responsibility for some 161 works to the
Karnataka Land Army Corporation, a semi-autonomous organization that undertook
construction work for the state. This experiment was not a success. The Land
Army proved to be even slower than the PWD, and when the credit closed in
March 1992 a few buildings were still not finished, although project officers
expressed satisfaction with the quality of Land Army construction.



- 11 -
38.       From Bank supervision reports, project documents and project audit
reports it is clear that quality of PWD construction was poor and that
adequate means for monitoring construction and ensuring that defects were
rectified were not available.
39.       The procurement of furniture and equipment was never properly
coordinated with construction activiWies, with consequent delays in the
commissioning of facilities. In particular, despite special note taken by a
Bank mission that the provision of furniture and equipment for the training
annex and hostel being constructed in Bangalore should be provided promptly so
that the facility would not lie unused, this was not done, and at the time the
credit closed it was not known when it would become functional.
40.       Training.  In addition to the pre-service training of field
workers, a substantial amount of in-service training was carried out under the
project (Part III, Section 4). Management training of medical officers was
initially organized by the Indian Institute of Management Bangalore but was
taken over by the Population Center Bangalore. When the training annex and
hostel constructed under the project in Bangalore becomes available, it will
become considerably easier to carry out this and other in-service training
programs planned for Bangalore. Management training for medical officers has
been continued after the end of the project.
41.       Of particular note is the in-service (continuing education)
training for field workers and supervisors that was carried out in 1988-89 and
1989-90. The training was organized on a step-down basis, with initial
training given by subject specialists at two regional training centers in the
project area and subsequent training of field workers given by supervisors on
the occasion of the monthly PHC staff meeting. The subject specialists also
attended monthly meetings to get first-hand feedback. Ten sessions on a
variety of health, family welfare and program subjects were held in each year.
This form of in-service training was generally considered by both program
officers and field workers to be effective, and the use of the monthly PHC
meeting for training purposes has been extended to the entire state.
42.       Information. Education and Communication (IEC).  Initial
difficulties in identifying a suitable technically qualified person to head
the project's IEC component and a technical consultant were experienced.
However, the local person eventually selected proved to be effective, and a
variety of materials were prepared and activities carried out (Part III,
Section 4). An effort to engage a consultant was not satisfactory and the
matter was allowed to drop. The importance of the IEC component in the
project was strengthened when district project officers, once their site
selection responsibilities were completed, were asked to assume responsibility
for project IEC activities in their districts.
43.       In addition to community education (orientation training camps),
extension education and mass communication activities, the IEC program
developed a number of innovative projects. Of particular interest was a radio
listening project carried out in three project districts in 1987-1988 with the
cooperation of All India Radio in Dharwar. A hundred subcenters in the three
districts were provided with transistor radios, and groups of women listeners



- 12 -
were organized by the ANMs. A series of 24 health education lessons in
dramatic form were broadcast weekly with emphasis on family planning spacing
methods and immunization. At the end of each program two questions based on
the program were asked, and listeners who sent in answers on post cards were
eligible for prizes. The programs attracted large audiences, and the number
of cards received was impressive. A subsequent evaluation indicated that
retention of message content by listeners was good.
44.       As in Kerala, problems were encountered in relating project IEC
activities to those carried out under the state's regular mass media program.
At the local level, block extension educators (BEEs) were already overburdened
by claims on their time for other than IEC activities, as commonly happens at
PHCs. A problem that appeared to be peculiar to Karnataka also concerned the
implementation of a management information systems the PHC post of computer,
responsible for the compilation of statistical information, was being filled
as a clerical post. Since many, if not most, computers were unable to handle
figures, the MIS burden then fell on the BEE.
45.       The project IEC unit was absorbed into the state mass media unit in
1990. Because of budget restrictions, however, most of the IEC activities
undertaken under the project have not been continued.
46.       Population Education.  The population education component was
carried out through the establishment of a state Population Education Centre
attached to the state's Directorate of Educational Research and Training,
regional centers at colleges of education at Dharwad and G.ulbarga, and
district population education centers at one teacher training college in each
district. The component was carried out largely as planned. Training and
orientation courses for college faculty, students, government staff and
publicly active persons were held. A variety of print and audio-visual
materials were prepared and distributed to health facilities.
47.       ManIaemeat Information System.  An MIS was developed in the project
districts of the First Project but was discontinued after the end of the
project. The Population Center Bangalore, which had developed the earlier
system, was given the responsibility for introducing a similar system state
wide under the Third Project. A system was designed and the reporting forms
were introduced, but introduction of the subcenter registers was limited to
some of the registers in the project districts. It was realized early in the
project that the allocation for printing of registers was inadequate, and
additional funds were never made available despite requests from Bank
missions. It was clear that MIS was not a priority of either the program or
the project. This was due partly to the identification of MIS with the
Population Center rather than the program; such a system is unlikely to
function effectively unless it is implemented as an integral part of the
program.
48.       Research Studies.  The Population Center Bangalore carried out
baseline and final surveys for the project as well as a number of additional
surveys and studies (Part III, Section 4). To support the capacity of the
Population Center to carry out such studies, a computer system was provided
under the project. However, this was procured late in the project and at



- 13 -
credit closing was not being utilized. As a result, the Population Center wag
unable to carry out its own data analysis or to produce reports promptly.
49.       Project Management.  In Karnataka, the project coordinator was of
the rank of Additional Director Health Services, an arrangement that works
well only if the Additional Director and the Director cooperate closely, which
is difficult to ensure. Although the project coordinator also held the ex-
officio rank of Additional Secretary in the Secretariat, the management of the
project from the Directorate rather than the Secretariat, which has been the
arrangement in some other Bank-supported population projects, at times seemed
to work to the disadvantage to the project. Another management problem arose
in the latter part of the project when the responsibilities of the state's
Department of Health and Family Welfare were divided between two secretaries.
Responsibility for the project and for the family welfare program were not
assigned to the same secretary, an arrangement that did not contribute to
bridging the project-program gap that was one of the project's difficulties.
Prolect Extension
50.       By the fourth year of the project, it became evident that Karnataka
would not be able to complete the civil works component by the credit closing
date in March 1990, let alone within the 5-year project period that came to an
end in March 1989. It Was also clear that, as in the Second Project, there
were going to be very substantial exchange rate savings as the result of
depreciation of the Indian rupee vis-a-vis the US dollar/SDR. As noted above
(para. 16), the credit was extended for 2 years, to March 31, 1992, as a part
of the restructuring of the Third, Fourth and Fifth projects. However, the
project was not expanded as the Second Project had been (para. 6). Except for
skeleton staff and part of the civil works unit in Karnataka, the project was
closed down by HOHUW as of July 1990 with less than 2 months' notice to the
states.
Proiect Finance
51.       The project's rupee budget was fully expended.  In both states,
expenditure on salaries was less than anticipated because significant numbers
of auxiliary-nurse midwife (ANM) posts budgeted under the project were in fact
established before the beginning of the project and supported by the central
government under the regular family welfare program. Expenditures under the
'Consultant Services and Training" category in Karnataka were less than half
of the amount originally allocated (Part III, Section 5) because of the
reluctance of the state government to engage consultant services and the
reluctance of the Government of India to spent project funds for external
training. Both states spent more for civil works than was originally
anticipated.
52.       Due to depreciation of the Indian rupee vis-a-vis the US dollar and
the SDR, implementation of the original project drew down only SDR 36.7
million of the SDR 66.3 million credit. The remainder of the credit was drawn
down through a restructuring of the credit and a 2-year extension of the
credit closing date (para. 75).



- 14 -
Prolect Results"
53.       The staff appraisal report indicated that by t4e end of the project
the following levels of family planning and MCH coverage could be expected in
the project districtst contraceptive prevalence, 33 percent in Kerala and
43 percent in Karnatakat delivery attendance by a trained person, 75 percent
in both states; immunization coverage of children, 50 percent in both states.
Infant mortality was expected to be reduced by 10 per thousand live births in
both states.
54.       In Kerala state as a whole, the last decade has seen the
achisvement of replacement fertility and the reduction of infant mortality to
below 20 per thousand births, both extraordinary accomplishments given
generally low income levels in the state. Factors associated with the
progress made include the very high levels of female literacy in Kerala
(87 percent according to the 1991 census), the density of population, which
means that health facilities are easily accessible to most people, high levels
of political awareness and organization, which results in greater
responsiveness on the part of the public health services than is usual in
India, and a large private health sector. Replacement fertility is the
combined result of high contraceptive prevalence, at least 60 percent
currently, and an average age at marriage for women of over 22 years, by far
the highest of any Indian state.
55.       While the backward project districts have not achieved the levels
of the rest of the state, the gaps between the two at the beginning of the
project have been substantially reduced. In 1983, contraceptive prevalence in
the project districts was less than 20 percent; by 1991 it had zisen to about
50 percent. Of particular interest are the figures for predomina.itly Muslim
Malappuram district, where contraceptive prevalence was about 15 pecent in
1983 and rose to about 38 percent by 1991.2
56.       Knowledge of family planning methods except for oral contraceptives
was already high in the baseline survey, and for orals improved from
50 percent and 55 percent to 80 percent and 85 percent of eligible women over
the project period. However, temporary contraceptive methods are still not
widely useds use of temporary contraceptive methods in the project districts
increased from prevalence of 2 percent and 3 percent in 1983 to only about
6 percent by 1991.
1 The discussion for Kerala utilizes a draft of the end evaluation
survey. At the time of writing, only a few preliminary figures were available
from the comparable Karnataka survey, and neither state's project completion
report was available.
2 According to a recent report by K.C. Zachariah (Demographic Transition
in Kerala in the 1980s, Center for Development Studies, Trivandrum, (1992)
prevalence rates among Muslims and non-Muslims in Malappuram are about the
same, leading him to interpret low contraceptive prevalence in Malappuram as
reflecting a general 'backward district effect' rather than a specifically
Muslim phenomenon.



- 15 -
57.       Coverage of b'oth antenatal care (ANC) and immunization in the
Kerala project districts has reached high levels. The baseline survey
reported immunization coverage between 20 percent and 35 percent.
Immunization has been the focus of the national universal immunization program
(UIP), which was begun in 1985. Figures from UIP coverage evaluation
surveys indicate that in 1991 the percent of children 1 to 2 years of age
who were fully immunized ranged from 40 percent to 80 percent, but low figures
in some districts were the result of problems with the supply of measles
vaccine; except for measles, coverage ranged from about 65 percent to over
90 percent. Less than 5 percent of these children were not immunized at all,
except in Malappuram district, where the reported figure was 11 percent. It
is not possible to distinguish to what extent increases in immunization
coverage are attributable to project inputs or to UIP, although clearly UIP
was able to build on strengthened infrastructure and expanded facility
coverage in the project districts.
58.       The UIP coverage surveys also reported that in the project
districts coverage for ANC services except for hemoglobin testing ranged from
60 percent to 80 percent, 75 percent to 85 percent of deliveries were
institutional, and more than 80 percent of deliveries were conducted by a
trained person in 1991. Thus, coverage levels more than achieved project
goals of 75 percent of deliveries by a trained person and 50 percent
imminization coverage.
59.       The expansion of ANC, trained delivery and immunization undoubtedly
have contributed to the substantial decline of infant mortality. Zachariah
estimates that in Palghat and Malappuram districts, infant mortality in 1980-
85 was 48 and 53, respectively, and that by 1985-89 the IMR had declined to 34
and 28, respectively. These achievements significantly exceeded the project
goal of a ten per thousand decline in IMR.
60.       In Karnataka, overall project results are more difficult to assess
than they are in Kerala. Family planning achievement figures for pre-project,
early project and later project years for project districts and the rest of
the state (Part III, Section 8) have a number of interesting features. First,
r'hanges in achievement figures frNm district to district and year-to-year vary
greatly, for reasons that are often difficult to identify. This is
characteristic of the Indian family planning program. District figures
reflect both national and state trends as well as local conditions. The
substantial increases for all methods in 1984-85 and 1985-86, for example,
probably reflect state-wide campaigns in those years. To explain the year-to-
8 The three sources available for immunization and ANC coverage in Kerala
pro3ject districts in/around 1991, i.e., UIP evaluation coverage surveys, the
project end evaluation survey, and Zachariah's 1991 study, are quite
inconsistent. The end evaluation survey reports very high coverage of 90
percent and over for ANC services except for Palghat district, while some of
Zachariah's figures for ANC and immmnization coverage are quite low.
Especially for immunization, the UIP surveys are probably preferable, since
trained teams from medical colleges carry out surveys every year and the
methodology is standard and well understood.



- 16 -
year variations in the different districts would require detailed knowledge of
local program and political circumstances.4
61.       Second, increases in the early project years over the preceding
years were much greater than increases in the later project years over the
earlier years, the opposite of what might be expected in terms of the impact
of project software components. However, this is true of the non-project
districts as well, which again suggests that the factors involved were not
linked to the project. Third, sterilization acceptance seems to have
plateaued in both project and non-project districts. At current prevalence
levels this is not unexpected and still means increases in prevalence,
although at a slower rate than previously. Fourth, the only method for which
project increases are consistently higher than comparable non-project
increases is IUDs. In sum, there is little in the family planning achievement
figures to suggest a discernable project impact.
62.       In terms of prevalence, the picture is similar.  At the start of
the project in 1983, contraceptive prevalence in the state as a whole was
about 2.5 percentage points higher than in the project districts. By 1991,
the difference had grown to about 6 percentage points. Prevalence in 1991 in
the project districts was about 40 percent, somewhat less than the project
goal. As in Kerala, use of temporary methods remains quite limited,
increasing only from about 3 points in 1983 to about 5 points in 1991.
63.       A coverage evaluation survey from one of the project districts
(Dharwar) for 1991 indicated improvements in ANC coverage, immunization
coverage and attendance at delivery over levels reported in the baseline
survey. However, there was still much room for improvement. Only about a
third of the women surveyed were receiving ANC services, although almost two
thirds were being immunized with tetanus toxoid. About 20 percent of
deliveries were institutional, and only slightly more than half of deliveries
were attended by a trained person. Immunization coverage for children one to
2 years of age ranged from about 45 percent to 65 percent, but some 22 percent
of these children were not immunized at all. The project goal of 75 percent
of deliveries attended by a trained person was not nearly reached, although
the immunization goal of 50 percent coverage can be considered to have been
4For example, a report by the Population Center, Bangalore (Programme
and Community Factors Affecting the Family Welfare Programme in Gulbarga
District, 1988) lists the following among program factors contributing to poor
program performance in Gulbarga district in 1987: poor PHC infrastructure, a
third of medical officer posts vacant, many medical officers and field staff
not resident at or near their facilities, half of the medical officers not
trained to perform sterilizations, poor sterilization camp logistics, high
laparoscopic sterill.zation failure rates, poor MCI services, etc. Problems of
these sorts are not uncommon. In addition, the report attributes particularly
high sterilization acceptance in Gulbarga district in 1985-86 to an effort by
the district administration to promote family planning that included promises
of official assistance to sterilization acceptors in the form of house sites,
loans, and so on that could not be kept. It is hardly surprising that in the
following year numbers of acceptors in the district plummeted.



- 17 -
achieved. As in Kerala, the effects of the project and UIP on immunization
coverage are confounded.
64.       Good project results in Kerala must be attributed to both project
and to more general factors as well. The ability of the Government of Kerala
to issue Government Orders promptly at the start of the project, the interest
and assistance of the project's Governing Board, and the availability of the
KHRWS to carry out civil works combined to support prompt achievement of
project physical targets. The creation of infrastructure in the hilly
districts were it had previously been lacking provided the basis for a
substantial expansion of services. However, the large increases in family
planning and MCH coverage in the Kerala project districts also owe a good deal
to the general situation of the state, with its extremely high literacy rates
and extensive demand for medical services. The combination of these factors
made it possible for the project to close much of the gap between the project
districts and the rest of the state.
65.       On the other hand, the northern districts of Karnataka in many ways
resemble parts of north India more closely than they do the much more
developed southern parts of the state. It is probably unrealistic to expect
that the family welfare program will make more rapid progress in northern
Karnataka until measures to address basic program constraints such as those
included in the proposed project service delivery strategy that was never
implemented (para. 69) are adopted.
Project Sustainability
66.       Because population ;ontinues to be a priority of the Government of
India and the family welfare program is a 100 percent centrally supported
scheme, the sustainability of the Bank-supported population projects has not
been considered an issue over the last decade or so. The current difficult
financial situation of the GOI puts the matter in a somewhat different light
and suggests that the Bank now needs to be more cautious. Neither continued
expansion of central support for family welfare nor indefinite continuation of
100 percent central support for existing obligations can now be assumed. In
addition, our cumulative experience as well as recent sector work indicate
serious problems in sustaining investments in the linked family welfare and
health programs due to inadequate financing at both central and state levels.
It has therefore become increasingly important for the Bank to ascertain that
existing programs can be sustained before embarking on additional population
lending.
67.       The one sustainability issue identified in the reviews of both the
First and Second Projects concerns maintenance of buildings constructed under
the project, which is the responsibility of the states concerned. As noted in
the review of the Second Project, providing maintenance for large numbers of
small, scattered health facilities is difficult for the states, and the record
is poor even when funds are allocated to the PWD for the purpose, which is not
always the case. Kerala was able to use project funds for maintenance of
buildings constructed early in the project (para. 15). If there is another
project in Karnataka in the near future (para. 82), funds for maintenance of
Third Project buildings could be included in the new project. However, unless



- 18 -
means of ensuring state funds for maintenance and securing PWD cooperation can
be developed, prospects for adequate long-term maintenance of health
facilities by the states are poor.  While bearing these cautions in mind,
under present circumstances project investments can be judged by and large
sustainable.
Bank Perfozmance
68.       In the development of the Third Project, the Bank attempted to move
away from the Area Project concept, which after 2 years of implementation of
the Second Project was proving ineffective, and towards a state rather than
district level project design, without provoking a confrontation with the
Ministry over abandonment of the official Area Project strategy. In
retrospect, it seems evident that it would have been better had the training
and IEC components of the project been made state wide, as was MIS, and the
creation of technical posts under the project avoided. However, at the time,
which was characterized by a very different relationship between the Bank and
the Government of India than that which currently prevails, the project
officer preferred a more gradual approach.
69.       The development of a strategy to facilitate moving the family
welfare program in the project states away from overemphasis on sterilization
targets towards provision of quality MCH and family planning services, a key
issue identified in both the First and Second Projects (paras. 4 and 7), was
poorly handled by the Bank. A paper outlining how program service delivery
could be reoriented along the desired lines through expansion of MCH services,
prioritization of program clients and tasks, fixed work routines for field
workers, an expanded role for IEC and strengthening of supervision was
included in the staff appraisal report. The approaches developed in this
paper were incorporated into subsequent Bank projects as well as GOI
documents. However, the original paper was written in the Bank after the
appraisal mission, and no attempt was made to obtain input from the states or
to discuss its implications with them. Under such circumstances, it is hardly
surprising that the strategy was ignored and had no impact on program
implementation under the project. An effort by the author of the strategy
paper to implement the approach on an experimental basis in one district of
Karnataka was not followed up by the Bank with the Ministry in Delhi, and
therefore nothing came of it.
70.       Bank supervision of the project suffered from poor continuity.  Ten
supervision missions over 7 years were carried out under four task managers;
two missions were actually headed by a consultant when the nominal task
manager was occupied with other work. The latter 4 years of the project were
overshadowed by MOHFW's requests for extension proposals followed by the
abrupt termination of the project in mid-1990 (para. 16), both of which
affected supervision efforts.
71.       These points aside, Bank supervision of the project was by and
large adequate in terms of frequency and appropriate tecbnical expertise.
Larger missions prior to 1987 (Part 1II, Section 7) reflect both greater
supervision needs in the earlier parc of the project as well as the reduction
of staff resources available following the reorganization of the Bank in 1987.



- 19 -
The one area where greater Bank attention and technical support might have
made a difference was the MIS component, where difficulties in both states
become evident fairly early in the project.
Borrower Performance
72.       Although several missions reported that delayed allocation of funds
by MOHFW to the states and by the states to the project, these problems were
short term and did not significantly interfere with project implementation in
the longer run. Processing of state disbursement applications by the
Departmer.t of Economic Affairs went smoothly. The major problem involving the
Borrower concerned the handling of exchange rate savings and the possible
expansion of the project.
73.       Well before the original credit closing date of March 31, 1990, it
was apparent that there were going to be large exchange rate savings. The
Ministry evidently assumed that, as in the case of the Second Project, some or
all of these savings could be absorbed through an expansion of the project to
include additional districts and enhanced project activities. The Department
of Economic Affairs strongly supported such an expansion of the project.  The
Bank indicated to Ministry that an expansion, combined with an increase in
disbursement percentages in order to draw down the credit more rapidly, would
be possible. In 1988 and 1989, the states were asked on three occasions by
the Hinistry/DEA to draw up proposals for a project expansion, for different
amounts, on very short notice. The first two sets of proposals were reviewed
informally by Bank missions and guidelines for modifications indicated.
74.       For reasons that are not clearly known, no expansion proposals were
ever formally submitted to the Bank, although it was indicated informally that
for a combination of financial and political reasons, the Planning Commission
refised to approve further investment in the project states. The inability of
the three concerned branches of GOI to coordinate and communicate a consistent
policy concerning expansion of the Third Project to the states and the Bank
created considerable hardship for project and program officers in both Kerala
and Karnataka and made it difficult for the Bank to plan the development of
future population lending in India.
75.       In the latter part of 1989, the Department of Economic Affairs
concluded that an expansion of the Third Project would not be possible. The
Department then indicated to the Bank that future population lending might be
jeopardized unless the Bank could come up with a way to assist CGOI in drawing
down the large credit balance that remained for the Third Project. The Bank
responded by developing a restructuring of the Third, Fourth and Fifth
Population Projects that included amending the project description of the
Third Project to cover all of the states' districts and additional family
welfare activities, increasing disbursement percentages, allowing disbursement
claims retroactive to November 1988, and extending the Third Project credit
closing date by 2 years. After this restructuring was approved by the Bank's
Board in December 1989, at DEA's instruction Kerala and Karnataka submitted



- 20 -
large "special' disbursement applications that drew down most of the remaining
credit.5
76.       Since the project was not to be expanded and, with the exception of
civil works in Karnataka, the project's physical targets had been largely
achieved, in April 1990 the Hinistry informed the states that except for part
of the civil works unit in Karnataka and skeleton staff for end-of-project
purposes, the project would be closed down as of July 1, 1990. This abrupt
termination of the project created major difficulties for both states. The
state budgets for 1990-91, which had been drawn up months previously, did not
include provision for project staff and activities that would not be supported
by the Ministry following the end of the project. A planned and smooth
transition was therefore not possible.
Issues/Lessons Learned
77.       Bank.  The review of the Second Project noted the need for
consistent Bank policies to deal with the issue of exchange rate savings. The
experience of the Third Project, where due to lack of such policies Bank, GOI
and state project staff had to devote considerable time and attention to
restructuring rather than project implementation, underlines the continued
importance of the matter. It would seem apparent that, if exchange rate
savings in IDA projects in India are not to be cancelled, the Bank needs to
develop a clear and effective alternative for dealing with this recurrent
issue. If this is not done, difficulties will continue to arise across the
IDA portfolio as projects near completion.
78.       Prostram.  Like its two predecessors, the Third Project was only a
part of the family welfare programs of the project states and a
correspondingly much smaller part of India's national family welfare program.
The project was not designed to have an impact on the underlying problems of
the national family welfare program identified in the reviews of the First and
Second Projects, which include weak and overcentralized program planning and
management and focus on sterilization at the expense of temporary
contraceptive methods and maternal-child health services. A strategy to
address serv ce delivery issues at state level was developed by the Bank, but
there was no state input involved and it was ignored (para. 68). If Bank
projects are to have some effect on program strategy and constraints, it will
be necessary to build into future projects national and state-level components
rf This PCR is not an appropriate place for a complete review of the
restructuring of the Third, Fourth and Fifth Population Projects in India that
was carried out in February 1990 on the basis on a memorandum to the Board
submitted in December 1989. While the preparation of three expansion
proposals and the abrupt closing of the project in July 1990 severely
inconvenienced the Health & Family Welfare Departments of Kerala and
Karnataka, the effect on the actual implementation of the Third Project was
limited. Of approximately $38 million paid against special disbursement
claims in 1990, repayment of approximately $20 million was requested by the
Bank in 1992 on the grounds that disbursements for this amount were
Ineligible.



- 21 -
specifically intended to address the basic difficulties. A beginning in this
direction has been made in the recent national Child Survival and Safe
Motherhood Project (CSSM) Project.
79.       Project.  Of the project design and implementation issues
identified in the First and Second Projects (paras. 4 and 7), some were
addressed in the Third Project, including the following:
(a) It was clear from early second project experience that since the
family welfare program is implemented at state level, limiting
project support to specified districts (the Area Project model) did
not permit the project to address key management and service
delivery issues and was therefore not an effective strategy. The
Third Project therefore began modification of the Area Project
(backward district) concept on which the Second Project had been
based. Project coverage was increased to some extent in the Third
Project, was further expanded in the Fourth Project, and was
extended to the entire state without any designation of project
districts in the Sixth and Seventh Projects.
(b)  To avoid the necessity of obtaining line-by-line clearance of
project expenditures by state Finance Departments that was proving
to be a major bottleneck in the Second Project, in the Third
Project the project Governing Boards were empowered to taken
decisions on behalf of the state government that were not subject
to review by individual departments. The grant of such powers to
the Governing Boards significantly facilitated project
implementation in both states.
sc) To obtain adequate technical support for IEC, a project covenant
required both states to appoint at an appropriate rank a
technically qualified person to direct IEC activities. As in
Andhra Pradesh in the Second Project, the results of competent
technical direction of the component were positive.
td)  The Third Project was the first of the India population projects to
deal systematically with the need for in-service training in the
family welfare program, although the training component were
limited to the project districts. The effectiveness of the
training in improving the technical knowledge and skills of field
workers was demonstrated in Kerala by an end-of-project evaluation.
In-service training was subsequently expanded in the Fourth and
Fifth Projects and became the major focus of the Sixth and Seventh
Projects.
(e) There were a number of innovative and noteworthy developments in
the Third Project, particularly in the project IEC programs of both
states. Of special note are the following:
(f)  In Kerala, orientation of madrassa teachers p.x,ved an effective
means of reaching the Muslim community and appears to have been a
factor in a substantial change in attitudes towards contraception



- 22 -
(para. 28). Health festivals and similar mass educational
activities drawing on community organizations (the family education
centers) were also both inexpensive and especially effective.
(g)  In Karnataka, a step-down system for in-service training was able
to utilize monthly PHC meetings for training purposes and also made
efficient use of limited numbers of subject specialists to train
large numbers of field workers (para. 41).
(h)  An innovative set of radio dramatizations of family welfare
messages with provision for audience participation via post cards
in Dharwar district of Karnataka attracted large audiences,
impressive participation and good retention of message content
(para. 43).
80.       The following issues noted in the reviews of the First and Second
Projects (paras. 4 and 7) continued to be problems in the Third Project:
(a)  A program-project split resulted in many instances in poor
cooperation between program and project staff and difficulties in
the absorption of project staff and activities into the program at
the end of the project.
(b) A high proportion of subcenter sites (25 percent in Karnataka),
which were limited to donated land, were not located in conformity
with project guidelines.
(c)  Reliance on the state PWD to carry out project construction in
Karnataka was unsatisfactory; in particular, mechanisms for
monitoring of construction were not worked out.
81.       The following additional points can be noted from the
Implementation experience of the project:
(a) Frequent meetings of the project Governing Board and Steering
Committee greatly facilitated project progress in Kerala; in
Karnataka failure of the Governing Board to meet regularly resulted
in implementation bottlenecks.
(b)  Provision for maintenance of facilities constructed early in the
project in later project years should have been included in the
project.
(c) The review of the Second Project notes that external mid-project
evaluation might have improved subsequent project implementation.
However, the assignment of the mid-term review to an outside agency
in Karnataka was not successful. Although a review was clearly
needed, program and project staff were so alienated by the approach
taken in the report that their energies went into refuting the
report rather than drawing lessons from it.



- 23 -
82.       At this time, a further Bank-supported population project in
Karnataka is under consideration. In developing the new project, the
following experience and lessons from the Implementation of the Third Project
in Karnataka should be taken into accounts
(a) The project should cover the entire state, although civil works
support can be limited to those districts not covered under the
previous Bank-supported projects.
(b) Project posts should be limited to those which will be abolished at
the end of the project, such as civil works and accounting posts.
(c) Development of a service delivery strategy should form an integral
part of project preparation.
(d) Improved provision for construction and monitoring of construction
is needed.
(e) Funds for maintenance of buildings constructed under the First and
Third Projects as well as early construction under the new project
should be included.
(f) The initiatives undertaken in the Third Project in the IEC and
training components need to be consolidated and expanded.
(g) The Department's Mass Media (family welfare) and Health Education
(health) units should be consolidated.
(h) Training infrastructure needs to be strengthened along the lines
indicated in the Ministry's training strategy and developed in
subsequent Bank-assisted population projects. The role of the
Population Centre Bangalore established under the First Project
should be reconsidered in view of the expansion of training
infrastructure, as has been done in U.P.
(i) The Department's family welfare (Demographic and Evaluation Cell)
and health (SBHI) statistical units should be consolidated.
(j) The statistical unit should be strengthened to implement and manage
the Health and Family Welfare Department's MIS; the MIS should be
reviewed in the light of the experience of other states and
adequately supported under the project.



- 25 -
PROJECT COQPLRTXON
INDIA
TEIED POPMATION PROJCT (MR&L&                )
{Credit 1426-IN)
PART II. oceSMeT  BY T9   CRCY
Cgegmta of the Governmant of Indla
1.        India Population Project III vhich commenced w.e.f. 1st April,
1984, in four districts of Kerala and six districts of Karnataka, vas
successfully implemented in these States. The targets set in respect of
various activities under the Project were almost fully achieved by these
States. The Project was by and large successful in attaining ite objectives.
2.        The Endline Evaluation report of IPP-III (Kerala) submitted by the
Foundation for Research in Health Systems, Ahmedabad has shown the impact of
the Project in the project districts of the State as under:
Baseline Survev            Endline Survey
Birth Rate                     29/1000 pop.                25/1000 pop.
Couple Protection Rate         20X                         502
Immunization Coverage          11.361                      63S
Ante-natal Coverage            N.A.                        951
3.        The Endline Survey of IPP-III (Karnataka) conducted by the
Population Centre, Bangalore has also shown significant improvement and impact
of the programme activities of IPP-III in the project districts in respect of
demographic indicators which have been summed up as follows:
Baseline Survey                Endline Survey
Sex Ratio                946.0/1000 pop.                 960.0/1000 pop.
Crude Birth Rate          35.3/1000 pop.                  29.1/1000 pop.
General Fertility Rate   164.9/1000 pop.                 145.5/1000 pop.
General Marital          198.9/1000 pop.                 176.2/1000 pop.
Fertility Rate
Crude Death Rate          10.5/1000 pop.                   8.5/1000 pop.
I.M.R.                    85.7/1000 pop.                  72.4/1000 pop.
Couples Practicing        25.81                           39.01
Family Planning
4.        Project results were definitely better in Kerala than in Karnataka.
It is felt that the performance could have been better, particularly in
Karnataka. Experiences and lessons learned from the project as indicated in



- 26 -
Part I of the report would be utilized in designing and implementing of the
next project. Some project act''ities of the States suffered set backs due to
cestain constraints faced by the State governments. These have been discussed
in the following paragraphs.
5.        In Kerala, high land cost together with a tight time schedule posed
problems for the State Government in getting satisfactory donated land for
subcentres. As a result the State had to accept less than ideal sites for
some subcentres, despite earnest efforts made by the State Government. There
was water scarcity in some subcentres but it was only seasonal, with wells
drying up in sutmmer. This problem was felt mainly in Malappuram district.
Ensuring regular and adequate supply of water round the year in all str-centres
scattered through the district was not possible because of the topogtAphy of
the districts. However. some source of water was always located not far from
the subcentres premises to meet the demand in difficult times. In Subsidiary
Health Centres or other larger institutions with inpatients, a steady supply
of potable water was made available.
6.        Kerala had to drop the idea of production of a full length feature
film on family welfare because of various reasons. One of the most important
problems identified was the huge cost of production and the unpredictable
response of audiences if popular cine-artists took the leading roles, either
leading to a positive outcome from character identification or a negative
outcome where the theme and message become unimportant and blurred by the
overwhelming personal charm of the film star. Problems of distribution were
also anticipated. Films Division could not take over the responsibility
because of statutory limitation of exhibition time available. Private
distributors had their own ways of bargaining, and hardly any takers could be
expected unless the theme was handled in a very subtle manner. The above
consideration outweighed the benefits of a full length feature film on family
welfare.
7.        In the End Evaluation survey of Kerala, an unsatisfactory equipmuent
situation at subcentres has been pointed out (Paragraph 20 of Part I of the
report).  In fact, during the project per tod, equipments were supplied to all
the 768 subcentres (568+200) constructed under the project. The sampling
method of the End Evaluation Survey was such that all the subceutres
irrespective of whether they were established under IPP or not had an equal
chance of being selected in the sample. Only about 50 percent of the
subcentres were IPP subcentres in the final sample of subcentres chosen for
the survey. Therefore, the statement pertaining to the equipment position of
the subcentres is not a true reflection of the project activity of supplying
equipment to subcentres.
8.        In paragraph 29 of Part I of the report, it has been pointed out
that there was no trace of educational material in one district of Kerala. In
fact, supply of educational material was made to all the districts of the
State. The methodology and level of efficiency of further distribution
downwards varied from district to district. Some district could effectively
use the materials. Others used them less effectively and were also not quite
successful in convincing others what they did. The awareuess about health
practices and the acceptance role of family welfare measures were the maximum



- 27 -
and growth rate was minimum in that particular district vhere no trace of
educational material was found.
9.        Even though most of the project-related IEC activities came to a
halt after expiry of the project period, community involvement is attempted to
be maintained through the continued support given to voluntary groups such as
Family Education Centres by the local fema.e field workers. Subeentres
committees were established in all the districts through a Government Order
and these Committees are called Popular Committees.
10.       In Paragraph 34 of Part I of the report, the need for integration
of all the health and family welfare statistical units functioning in K.(erala
was recommended. Keeping in view the need of integrating the statistical
units, the State Government would take urgent action to ensure compliance of
the directions given.
11.       The untoward effect of conflict between programe and project staff
was minimized to a certain extent in Kerala by following appropriate
strategies. Strengthening the areas of reciprocal interdependence was one
such method adopted frequently by the project management.
12.       In Karnataka, due to certain constraints, there was delay in
construction of IPP buildings by the Public Works Department of the State.
Various factors such as initial delays caused in initiating the project
activities under this component, together with resentment of the staff posted
and scarcity of water arising out of drought conditions in the early years of
the project, resulted in delays. However, in subsequent years there was
improvement in the activities and with the cooperation of other state-owned
construction agencies, almost all the building envisaged have been completed.
13.       As regards procurement of furniture and equipment in Karnataka,
although there was initial delay owing to administrative reasons, equipment
and furniture have been procured and distributed to all the buildings and made
functional.
14.       Under Management Information System. there was a little delay in
Karnataka in the printing and distribution of MIES forms and registers owing
to certain administrative reasons. However, these lapses were attended to and
arrangements were made to print and supply MIES forms and registers. The
State Covernment has assured that in the population project proposed in
future, action will be taken to implement the MIES as an integral part of the
programme.
15.       As regards nonsubmission of expansion proposal to the Bank as
pointed out in Paragraph 60 of Part I of the report, although the States of
Kerala and Rarnataka formulated expansion proposals to utilize the projected
savings under the project, the expansion proposals were not approved by the
Government due to resource constraints.
16.       Though it is true that the States were advised to reduce the number
of staff (as pointed out in Paragraph 62 of Part I of the report) as most of
the project activities were completed, a minimum number of skeleton staff



- 28 -
required for carrying out the project activities Was allowed to be continued
until final termination of the project. As a result, it was possible for the
State Governments to gradually integrate the project staff within the existing
health and family welfare system.



- 29 -
Comments of the Qgoernme_t of Kerala
The PCR of the World Bank is in general agreement with the State
Government's perception and assessment of the project implemented in Kerala.
The strength and weaknesses as reported by the Bank shall certainly be borne
in mind when future implementation of any such project is considered. It is
felt, however, that some explanation of the circumstances is required wherever
weaknesses are pointed out.  The same is given below pararw;.es
1. Para. 19 of the PCI: Silt  groblems for bugildig  locations.
The district officers had been given datelines for the completion
of the exercise for obtaining donated land for subcentres. The time pressure
was heavy, and getting donated land at the rate of a minimum of 10 cents for
each facility was a difficult task in Kerala due to very high land cost and
density of population. This resulted in the acceptance of less than ideal
sites in certain situations. Water scarcity was there but it was only
seasonal, with wells drying up in summer. This problem was felt mainly in
Malappuram District. Ensuring a steady supply of water round the year in all
subcentres scattered throughout the District was impractical because of the
topography of the Districts. However, some source of water was always located
not far from the subcentre premises to meet the demand in difficult times.
This is not the case with subsidiary health centres or other larger
institutions with inpatients, where a steady supply of potable water was made
available.
2. Para. 20 PCRs SupDIy of IouMpments to Subcentres.
The project supplied equipments to all the 760 subcentres (560+200)
constructed under it. But there were other old subcentres already existing in
the districts. The sampling method of the End Evaluation Survey was such that
all the subcentres (irrespective of whether they were established under IPP or
not) had equal chance of being selected in the sample. Only about 50 percent
of the subcentres were IPP subcentres in the final sample of pertaining to the
equipment position of the subcentre is not a true reflection of the project
activity of supplying equipment to subcentres.
3. Para. 29 PCR: Production of a future film and sUrnlv of IEC materials.
Production of a full length feature film was considered in its
different aspects by the project authority, the Standing Committee and also
by the IEC Consultant. Several problems were identified. The most important
among them was the huge cost of production and the unpredictable response of
audience if popular cine artists took the leading role. either leading to a
positive outcome from character identification or negative outcome where the
theme and the message get unimportant and blurred by the overwhelming personal
charm of the film star.
Problems of distribution are also anticipated. Films Division
could not take over the responsibility because of statutory limitation of
exhibition time available. Private distributors had their own ways of



- 30 -
bargaining, and hardly any takers could be expected unless the theme was
handled in a very subtle manner. The above considerations outweighed the
benefits of a full length feature film on family planning and therefore, the
idea was dropped.
Education materials had been supplied to all the districts. The
methodology and the level of efficiency of further distribution downwards
varied from district to district. Some districts could effectively use the
materials and show that they used them. Others used them less effectively and
were not quite successful in convincing others what they did. In fact the
awareness about health practices and the acceptance rate of P measures were
the maximum and the growth rate was minimum in that particular district where
End Evaluation Survey found no trace of education materials.
4. Para. 30 PGR: Sustainability of IEC Activities.
Even though most of the project related IEC activities came to a
halt, community involvement is attempted to be maintained through the
contivued support given to voluntary groups such as Family Education Centres
by the local female field workers. Subcentre cowmitteet were established in
all the districts in Kerala through a Government order and these committees
are called popular committees.
5.  Para. 34 PCR:  Integration of Statistical Units.
Realizing the need for the integration of all the statistical units
as pointed out by the World Bank, the Government would be taking urgent action
to ensure compliance of the directions given.
6.  Para. 54 PCKt  Maintenance of flildings.
Kerala was able to use project funds for maintenance of building
constructed early in the project. The State PWD has started action in
preparing maintenance estimates of all IPP buildings. The maintenance work
will be done promptly by the PWD.
7.  Para. s8  PC0 :  Proaramme-nroject Split.
It was possible to minimize the untoward effect of a certain level
of conflict between programme and project staff by appropriate and timely
strategies. Strengthening the areas of reciprocal interdependence was one
such method adopted frequently by the project management for keeping the
conflict at the most productive level.
.



- 31 -
Commuent of the Gover2ment of o a_nataka
1. In response to the comments made by World Bank in its Project Completion
Report for India Population Project III, it could be said that the Government
of Karnataka has successfully completed all the programme activities in
general, and as envisaged the project objectives have been achieved almost
fully. The budget allocated under the project for the various components of
the programmes has been utilized in full and spent.
2.  The results of the Endline Survey issued by the Populat.on Centre,
Bangalore in their report "Some Salient Findings of Endline Survey of IPP-III
(K)" (May 1992), have revealed that there is significant improvement and
impact by the programme activities of India Population Project III in the
project districts in respect of demographic indicators such as sex ratio,
household size, birth rate, general fertility rate and general marital
fertility rate, death rate, infant mortality rate, family planning (percentage
of couples practicing family planning in IPP-III Districts) and average daily
turnover of outpatients in PHCs and average monthly turnover of inpatients in
PHCs, when compared to baseline survey results of IPP-III (K).
3. In view of *ertain constraints, particularly in respect of civil works,
there wss delay in construction of IPP buildings by the Public Works
Department owing to the delay caused in taking up of project activities by the
Engineering Department. Ten months' initial delays in initiating the project
activity under this component, together with resentment of the staff posted
and scarcity of water due to drought conditions in the earlier years of the
project, caused the building of works to lag behind schedule. However, in
subsequent years the situation improved and with the cooperation of other
state-owned construction agencies almost all the buildings envisaged have been
completed.
4. The procurement of furniture and equipmeat, though delayed owing to
certain administrative reasons, has been completed and all the buildings have
been made functional.
5. The World Bank also has rightly observed and stated that despite certain
initial delays, the project's physical targets in respect of civil works,
furniture, equipment and vehicles were almost comfletely achieved.
6. Implementation of IEC, Population Education and training programmes have
been done on the lines expected. Noteworthy innovative programmes have been
developed under IEC. In-service training in the family welfare programme
improved the technical knowledge and skills of field workers in the project
districts. The IEC project programme was abruptly ended in June, 1990 and the
unit was absorbed into the state's Mass Media Wing. Due to budget
restrictions, most of the activities could not be continued.
7. The World Bank has rightly observed that the innovative undertakings in
the third project in respect of the IEC and Training components need to be
consolidated and expanded.



- 32 -
8. Out of these experiences and lessons learnt, the new Population Project
currently being proposed particularly in respect of IEC and Training will be
planned to be expanded and continued for all districts of the State.
9. Under the MIS component in the third project, there was a little delay in
printing and distribution of MIES forms and registers owing to certain
administrative reasons. However this lapse was attended to and arrangements
were made to print and supply MIES forms and registers. In the proposed
population project, action will be taken to implement the MIES as an integral
part of the programme.
10. Under Project Management, for various administrative reasons the
Governing Board, although it could not meet regularly once in 3 months, met
11 times during the project period, as and when required, to review progress
and to give required administrative sanctions and directions for
implementation of the programmes.
11. In the proposed population project, care has been taken to learn from the
lessons of the first and third projects. Civil works will be provided only to
those districts of the State which have not been covered under the earlier
projects, as suggested in the Project Completion Report.
12. The bottlenecks experienced in implementation of IPP-I and IPP-III as
noted by World Bank in its comments have been taken note of in designing the
new project which is under consideration by the Bank. Reliance on PWD for
construction of buildings, improved provisions for construction and
monitoring, development of service delivery, funds for maintenance of
buildings constracted already by previous projects, and consolidation and
expansion of the initiatives undertaken in the 3rd Project in IEC and Training
have all been included. The need for consolidation of the Demographic Cell
and the statistical units and the deficiencies noticed under project
management have also been taken note of, and it is planned to avoid these
bottlenecks in the proposed new population project.



- 33 -
Section 1
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT C(lTIOA  REPORT
DmIA
THIRD POPULMITON PROJECT (KRNALA MMD KARNTATKA)
(Credit 1426-IN)
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFOEMUIO
1. Related Bank Loans or Credits
Credit No.                    312-IN
Title                         First Population Project
Year of Approval              1972
Purpose                       To support the family welfare program in
five districts of Karnataka and six districts of
Uttar Pradesh
Status                        Credit Closed June 30, 1980
Comments                      PCR 6/81; PPAR 1/82
Credit No.                    981-IN
Title                         Second Population Project
Year of A-Pnroval             1980
Purpose                  I    To support the family welfare program in
six districts of Uttar Pradesh and
three districts of Andhra Pradesh
Status                   s    Credit Closed March 31, 1988
Comments                      PCR 1/901 PPAR 8/90
Credit No.                    1623-IN
Title                         Fourth (West Bengal) Population Project
Year of AR2roval              1985
PurDose                  I    To support the family welfare program in
four districts of West Bengal
Status                        Under implementation
Comments                 s    State-level support for MIS, IEC and population
education and training
Credit No.                    1931-IN
Title                         Fifth (Bombay/Madras) Population Project
Year of ADDroval              1988
Purpose                       To support the family welfare program in the
cities of Bombay and Madras
Status                        Under implementation
Comments                      NGOs and private medical practitioners are
included in project



- 34 -
Section 1
Page 2 of 2
Credit No.                     2057-IN
Title                          Sixth (First National Family Welfare Training
and Systems Development) Population Project
Year of ADDroval               1989
Purpose                  I    To support the family welfare program in the
states of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradeeh and
Madhya Pradesh
Status                         Under implementation
Comments                       Focus on strengthening of training aspects of
the program on a statewide basis.
Credit No.                     2133-IN
Title                          Seventh (Second National Family Welfare Training
and Systems Development) Population Project
Year of A_Rroval               1990
PurDose                  s    To support the family welfare program in the
states of Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Bihar.
Status                         Under implementation.
Comments                       Focus on strengthening of training aspects of
the program on a statewide basis.
Title                          Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project
Pur2ose                  :    To help the Government of India increase the
supply of family welfare service in the slum
populations of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West
Bengal and Delhi.
Status                   :    Approved by Board (June 18, 1992); Effective
pending
Comments                 :    Focus on reduction of fertility and maternal and
infant mortality rates among slum populations by
improving the outreach of family welfare
services, upgrading the quality of family
welfare services through extensive and on-going
personnel training, expanding the demand for
health services through expanded information,
education and communication activities and
improving the administration and management of
health care agencies.



- 35 -
Section 2
Page 1 of 1
2. Proiect Timetable
Identification Mission                                 October 1982
Preparation Mission                                    December, 1982
Appraisal Mission                                      April, 1983
Credit Negotiations                                    October 26, 1983
Board Approval                                         December 13, 1983
Credit Signing                                         February 8, 1984
Credit Effectiveness                                   May 8, 1984
Credit Closing (original)                              March 31, 1990
Credit Closing (revised)                               March 31. 1992
Credit Closing (actual)                                March 31, 1992



- 36 -
Section'3
Page 1 of 1
3. Credit Disbursement.
-   (US$ million)                Actual as X
IDA FY      Quarter Ending        SAR Estimate      Actual           of Estimate
1984        Sejptember 1983          0.00            0.00               0.00
December 1983           0.00            0.00               0.00
March 1984              0.00            0.00               0.00
June 1984               0.50            0.00               0.00
1985        September 1984           1.00            O.CO               0.00
December 1984           2.00            0.09               4.5P
March 1985              3.50            0.09               2-- /
June 1985               5.00            0.93              18.60
1986        September 1985           6.75            2.64              39.11
December 1985           8.75            3.76              42.97
March 1986             11.00           11.51             104.64
June 1986              13.75           13.30              96.76
1987        September 1986          16.50           13.30              80.61
December 1986          20.00           16.62              83.10
March 1987             23.75            18.30             77.05
June 1987              27.50           22.30              81.09
1988        September 1987          31.50           24.83              78.83
December 1987          36.00           24.83              68.97
March 1988             41.00           27.99              68.27
June 1988              46.00           30.14              65.52
1989        September 1988          51.00           30.14              59.10
December 1988          56.00           32.74              58.46
March 1989             60.00           34.48              57.47
June 1989              64.00           35.78              55.91
1990        September 1989          67.00           35.78              53.40
December 1989          69.00           38.20              55.36
March 1990             70.00           54.63              78.04
June 1990              70.00           76.51             109.30
1991        September 1990          70.00           78.35             111.93
December 1990          70.00           79.29             113.27
March 1991             70.00           80.78             115.40
June 1991              70.00           82.14             117.34
1992        September 1991          70.00           82.14             117.34
December 1991          70.00           82.14             117.34
March 1992             70.00           82.14             117.34
June 1992              70.00           82.14             117.34
1993        So',tember 1992         70.00           83.22             118.89
Note: Following the Credit Closing Date the standard grace period of 4 months
for submission of final disbursement applications was allowed.



- 37 -
Section 4
Page 1 of 8
4. Prolect ImDlementation
Civil Works
Appraisal           Actual
Targets             Achievsemets
ANM SC                                       642                   642
LHV Qtrs                                     161                    161
M.0. Qtrs                                    308                   308
Modified M.0. Qtrs                            18                     18
Class-III Qtrs                               498                   498
Class-IV Qtrs                                280                   280
SHC                                          236                   236
FEC                                           83                    83
CHC                                           28                    28
Cold Room                                      2                     2
ANM Hostel                                     6                      6
KHFWTC Qtrs                                    2                     2
RHFWTC Qtrs (Gulbarga)                         1                      1
Dormitory                                     17                     17
Vehicle Workshop                               2                     2
Equipment Workshop                             2                     2
subtotal:                             2.286                 2.286
Karnataka Land Army Corp.
ANN SC                                        61                     56
M.0. Qtrs                                     45                     43
CHC                                            3
Class III Qtrs                                33                    27
SHC                                           19                    19
Subtotal:                               161                   145
Ksrnataka State Construction CorD.
Hostel                                         I                      I
Additional Floor                               I                      1
Subtotal:                             . 2                   2=Z
Total                                      2.449                 2,433
Abbreviations:
CHC         -      Community Health Centre
PHC         -      Primary Health Centre
SC          -      Subcentre
SHC         -      Subsidiary Health Center
MPWFTC      -      Multi Purpose Worker Female Training Centre
Note: All facilities supplied/to be supplied with furniture and equipment as
specified.



- 38-
Section 4
Page 2 of 8
Ia-Service Training
Training Program                                           Nos. Trained
Management Training for Medical Officers                   458 in 22 batches
Functional Training in Communication for
Deputy Health Education Officers & BEEs                   205 in 9 batches
Behavioral Training in Communication for
Block Health Educators                                    133 in 5 batches
Continuing Education (5 days) for supervisors
of P#Cs                                                  737
S.   e
Training of Key Personnel Communication Workshop           19
Refresher Course to Key Personnel                          16
Training for Trainers' of Training Institutes in
Teaching Methodology                                     121 in 5 batches
Notes No specific targets for numbers of staff to receive in-service training
were set.



- 39 -
Section 4
Page 3 of 8
XIC Bquipment/Activitiee
Particulars/Activities           Targets    Achievemets          Reuarks
State Level Equipment                5            22      Procurement of small
equipment such as
projectors, tape
recorders, etc.,
overshot target
levels.
Divisional Level Equipment          27             29      Two deluxe over-head
projectors were
bought beyond
targets.
District Level Equipment             18             18
Sub-Divisional Equipment             90            90
PHC/SHC Level Equipment           1,090          1,090
Other Audio-Visual Aids
& Equip.                       36,935        36,935
Production of films/slides
/models                         3,766         6,617
Orientation Training Camps        6,496         6,024
Innovative Schemes                1,340         1,340
Intensive Campaign on Spacing
Methods                                            6 districts
Mushaira Program in Gulbarga
& Bidar                                           2 districts
Area specific strategy                               2 villages in each PHC
Publication of News
bulletins in Bidar                 10 issues
IEC Workshops                        10             8 workshops
Involvement of Voluntary
Organizations                     500           500 members



- 40 -
Section 4
Page 4 of 8
Studie.
Title of Study                                                        Date
Skill Gaps Survey                                                     1984
Baseline Survey                                                       1986
The Block Health Educator (BHE) Role Prescribed, Perceived
and Played                                                          1987
The Health Scheme in Belgaum and Gulbarga Districts:
An Evaluation                                                      1987
Programme and Community Factors Affecting Family Welfare
Programme in the Gulbarga District                                 1988
Health and Family Welfare tatus of the Population                    1988
Programme and Community Factors Affecting the Family
Welfare Programme Performance in Raichur District                  1988
Impact of Orientation Training Camps: An Evaluation                   1989
Feeding Practices and Nutritional Status of infants
and young children in Rarnataka                                    1989
Socio-Economic and Demographic Profile of Malur Taluk:
A Survey Report                                                    1989
Role Performance of Junior Health Assistants (Female)
in IPP-III (Karnataka) Districts                                   1990
Motivating Couples for Family Planning in Karnataka                   1990
A Comparative Study of Performance of Sub-Centres with
Government Buildings, Rented/Rent-Free Buildings                   1990
and No Buildings
Incentives and Family Planning Acceptance Among the
Beedi Rolling and Plantation Workers                               1990



- 41 -
Section 4
Page 5 of 8
Civil Works
Appr- sal          Actual
Targets            Achievements
Oriia  Prog ram
Subcenters                                    568                568
LHV Quarters                                  155                155
SHCs                                           82                 82
M.0 Quarters                                   80                 80
Type II Quarters                               81                 81
Type I Quarters                                81                 81
Ward, O.T. for PHCs                            27                 27
Ward, O.T. for THQ & other Hospitals           11                  11
Printing Press                                  1                  1
Equipment Workshop                              1                  1
Vehicle Workshop                                1                  1
Male Training Schools                           4                   4
Female Training Schools                         3                  3
Female Supervisory Training School              1                  1
Total                                  1,096              1,096
3e-vroZrammiaM (Additional Works)
Subeenter                                     200                200
Ward, O.T. for PHCe                             1                   1
Ward, O.T. for minor PHC                        1                   1
Addtl. construction for Veh. Workshop           1                   1
Community Halls                                22                 22
Dormitory                                       2                  2
M.O. Quarters for PHCs                         16                  16
Total                                   243                 243
Note:  All facilities supplied with furniture and equipment as specified.



- 42 -
Section 4
Page 6 of 8
Trainn
Training Program                                 No. of Trainees
Basic (Pre-Service) Training
Female Fieldworker (ANM Training)                810
(18-month course)
Male Fieldworker Training                        1,200
(12-month course)
SuDervisory Training
Female Supervisory Training.                     477
(6-month course)
In-Service Trainina of Field Staff               All field staff.
Other Trainina Programs
Workshop at NIHFW
(Trng. Proj. Co-ordinator/Officers)
Mgt. Trng. for Prol. Officer
& all Dist. Proj. Officers
Management Training Program                      265 PHC Medical Officers
Mgt. Workshop on Network & Scheduling            8 batches of 20 PHC M.O.s
Evaluation & Mgt. Trng.                          23 M.O.s
IEC Course (10 days)                             14 Dist. Mass Edu. & Info.
Officers
IEC Course (12 days)                             218 Block Extension Educators
Special Trng. Course for Principals
& Tutors of Health Workers                    35
Course on Use of Audio-Visual Equipment          64 teaching staff
Training of Driver cum Projectionists            22
Computer Awareness Program                       2
Special Trng. for Tribal Youths
Note: All facilities supplied/to be supplied with furniture and equipment as
specified.



- 43 -
Section 4
Page 7 of 8
uR&AL
IEC Activities/Equipment/taterials
Target                             Achievements                Remarks
SDecial Interest Group
Act_ivities
Writers/Artists                    8            4
Working Journalists                8            4
Film Producers                     2         --
Extension Education
16 mm prints and film           900           978
8 mm prints and film           1,943         -              Reasons for not
purchasing 8 mm
projectors were
(1) breakdown rate
being high; (2) non-
availability of
suitable cartridges
and (3) less
coverage
Educational Kits               2,774        2,907
Film strips & prints           1.005          900
Purchase prints                1,675            4 strips
Telefilms                      --               2
Mass Media
Production of
Cinema (35mm)                1.400          411 prints
Slides                        3,100         1,240
Folders/Artwork                   10            5
Folders copies              300,000       305,000
Posters/Artworks                  15           15
Posters/Copies               30,000       210,000
Eguijment
Generators                        43           43
Projector 16mm                     8           46
Projector 8mm                     39      not purchased
Other                             40           40



- 44 -
Section 4
Page 8 of 8
Studies
Title                                                                      Year
Skill Gaps Survey I                                                        1984
Skill Gaps Survey II                                                       1988
Immunization Coverage Evaluation I                                         1985
Immunization Coverage Ev&luation II                                        1986
Determinants of Subcenter Effectiveness in Kerala                          1988
Managerial Factors Contributing to PHC Effectiveness                       1988
Maintenance of Newly Introduced MIS Registers                              1989
Concurrent Evaluation of Health Festivals                                  1989
Effectiveness of Timetable Cards and Name Slips with                       1989
Health Messages
Utilization of Additional Inputs to Subsidiary Health                      1990
Centers
Constraints of Delivering Primary Health Care to                           1990
Tribals in Kerala
Breastfeeding Survey                                                       1987



- 45 -
Section 5
Page 1 of3
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Xstfmated Prolect Coats at Anraisal
Local    Foreign  Total                 Total
US $ millions                Re. millions
Capital Costg. Base
Civil Works                     48.0       5.9       53.9              525.6
Furniture. Equipment
& Vehicles                    13.2       1.5       14.7              143.6
Subtotal, Capital Costs         61.2        7.4      68.6              669.2
Incremntal Recurrent Costs
Salaries                        18.2       0.0       18.2              177.2
Training and Orientation
Costs, IEC Materials,
and Maintenance Costs          8.4       2.1       10.5              102.9
Subtotal, Incr. Recurrent
Costs                         26.6       2.1       28.7              280.1
Subtotal, Base Costs            87.8        9.5      97.3              949.3
Contin2encies
Physical                         2.9        0.3       3.2               31.6
Price                           20.5        2.5      23.0              223.4
Subtotal, Contingencies         23.4        2.8      26.2              255.0
Total                          111.2       12.3     123.5             1204.3



Section 5
Page 2 of 3
S. Credit Fiancina
Disburse-
Original        mDte
Revised          Project        Including
Expenditure            Credit         Credit           Disburse-        Restruc-
Categories             Agreament      Agreement         mnte            turing8
Expreesed in SDR Equivalent
1.  Civil works     37.860.000    39,000,000         28,122.133      31,344,000
2. Equipment         8,060,000       9,500,000         1,675,695       1,863,137
3. Furniture &       4,270,000       4,690.000        3,067,977        3,393,779
Vehicles
4.  Staff salaries   7,570.000       4,570,000        2,997,012       16,239,800
5.  Consultants'      1.430,000      1,430,000           338,168         734,349
services end
training
6.  Other operation  3,320,000       5,320,000         1,591.589      11,798.029
and maintenance
costs
7.  Unallocated      3,790,000       1,790,000            --              -
Total         66,300,000    66,300,000         37,792,574      65,373.094
X  The figures given are as of August 10, 1992.  At the time of writing, the
Bank has requested repayment of approximately US$20 million disbursed under
the restructured project against recurrent cost claims subsequently found to
be ineligible.



- 47 -
Section 5
Page 3 of 3
C. Project EMetdituree
KARITAKA'
Ezpenditure                       Initial            Actual
Catenorv                       Allocations       Expenditures         PercentaLe
(Re. million)     (Re. Million)
1.  Civil Works                   429.4               489.4               114
2.  Equipment                      26.3                25.8                98
3.  Purc. Vehicles & Furniture    52.3                 50.6                97
4.  Staff Salaries                131.6               865.4                66
5. Consultant Services
& Training                   19.5                 7.7                39
6. Other Operational &
Maintenance Costs            51.1                52.5               103
Total                       713.1               712.5               100
2 Corresponding figures for Kerala were not available.



- 48 -
Section 6
Page 1 of 3
6. Status of Covenants
Project
Agreement
Section   Status  Description of Covenant               Comments
2.05(b)    OK      The States shall (1) maintain        Satisfactory
records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor progress
of their respective parts of the
project; and (2) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals
all such information as the
Association shall require.
2.05(d)   OK       The States shall promptly after    Under preparation
completion of the Project, but       in both states.
not later than 6 months after
the Closing Date, prepare and
furnish to the Association, a
report on the execution,
operation. costs and benefits,
and accomplishments of the
project.
2.07      REV      Karnataka shall furnish a            Karnataka submitted
curriculum for a 6-month             the curriculum as
training course for Community        required.  However,
Health Officers to the               a decision was taken
Association fo: its review           by the State to not
and comment.                         post Community Health
Officers and Bank did
not enforce covenant.
2.08      OK       The States shall annually            Supplied.
furnish to the Association a
curricula and a timetable for
the retraining of staff in the
Project Districts for its
review and comment not later
than 2 months before the
start of each fiscal year.
2.09      OK       The States shall furnish an          Supplied.
annual Information, Education
and Communication Action Plan
to the Association for its
review and comment not later
than 2 months before the
start of each fiscal year.



- 49 -
Section 4S
Page 2 of 3
6. Status of Covenant.
Project
Agreement
Section   Status  Description of Covenant              Comments
2.09      OK       The States shall furnish an         Supplied.
annual Information, Education
and Communication Action Plan
to the Association for its
review and comment not later
than 2 months before the
start of each fiscal year.
2.10(a)   OK       Each of the States shall under-    Midterm reviews
take a midterm review of the        submitted by both
progress of each component of       States and reviewed
the project and the performance    by IDA.
of the Family Welfare program
in the selected districts.
2.10(b)   OK       Furnish to the Association the      Midterm reviews
results of the midterm review       submitted by both
for comments and undertake any      States and reviewed
necessary action as agreed with    by IDA.
the Association.
2.11      OK       The States Shall undertake surveys Surveys completed.
to identify any significant gaps
in the skills, knowledge and
practices of family welfare
services as a basis for the re-
orientation and retraining of
staff in project districts, and
furnish the results to the Ass-
ociation for review and comment.
2.12(a)   OK       Each State shall appoint a duly    Appointed.
qualified Information, Education
and Communication (IEC) Specialist
with the rank of Joint Director to
direct IEC activities under the
Project.
3.01      OK       Each State shall furnish to the    Supplied.
Association copies of accounts
and financial statements related
to the project certified by an
independent auditor.



- 50 -
Section 6
Page 3 of 3
6. Status of Covenantg
Project
Agreement
Section   Status  Description of Covenant              Coments
3.02      OK       Each State shall have its accounts Supplied.
and financial statements related
to the project audited by inde-
pendent auditors, and shall
furnish the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably
requested.
OK = Covenant complied with
REV - Needs to be revised



Section 7
Page 1 of 3
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff and Consultant Inputs
State of Proiect Cycle                    Actual No. of Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal ............................. .....  20.8
Appraisal through Board Approval ..# .................  75.3
Board Approval through Effectiveness ................  12.0
Supervisionl .................................... 113.3
B. Missions
No of      Days in    Specialization   Performance
Month/Year        Persons    Field       Represented'      Rating4         Consents
Identification:
October 20, 1982     2         6         a,b
i -
Preparation:
December 6, 1982     1         5         a
Appraisal:
April 25, 1983       7        26         a,b,c,d,f
Supervision:
Feb. 16. 1984        5        12         a.bbc,f,h           2             Took place prior to the project
being declared effective.
October 31, 1985     3        23         b,c,f               2
' a = Population Specialist; b = Architect;
c = Health Specialist; d = Economist;
e = Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist;
f = IEC Specialist; g = Training Specialist;
h = Population Education Specialist
1 = minor problems; 2 = moderate problems



Section 7
Page 2 of 3
B. Missions
no. of     Days in    Specialization   Performance
Month/Year        Persons    Field        Represented3      Rating4          Comments
Suiervision:
June 1, 1986         3         18         b,c,f               2
October 20, 1986     4         23         a,b,c,h             2              Delays in start-up of
construction in Karnataka.
May 31, 1987         3         13         a,d,g               2              Civil works  program one year
behind schedule in Karnataka.
January 10, 1988     2         14         a,d                 2              Construction program seriously
delayed in Karnataka.
August 8, 1988       4         12         a,b,f               2              Non-availability of funds
constrained project activities.
July 14, 1989        2          9         a,b                 2
June 6 1990          2          4         a,c                 1
May 6, 1991          2          1         a,c                 2              Sudden closing of project by GOI
resulted in difficulties in
reassignment of proj. staff.
May 1, 1992          2          2         a,c                 2              PCR mission.
a = Population Specialist; b = Architect;
c= Health Specialist; d = Economist;
e = Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist;
f   IEC Specialist; g = Training Specialist;
h = Population Education Specialist
41 = minor problems; 2 = moderate problems



Section 7
Page 3 of 3
ST,F IBMT
(Staff Weeks)
FT                 81    82       83     84      85      86    87      88      89      90      91     92
Total
Preappraisal      1.6    1.9   17.2    -        -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -      20.80
Appraisal         -      -      47.7   18.9    -        -       -       -      -       -      -       -      66.60
Negotiations      -      -       -       8.7    -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -       8.70
Supervision       -      -       -      14.0   28.4   32.4   14.6    5.6    9.7   15.9    4.3    0.4  125.30
Total             1.6    1.9   64.9   41.6   28.4   32.4   14.6    5.6    9.7   15.9    4.3    0.4  221.40



