Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4691-IN
INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF A THIRD POPULATION PROJ
November 9, 1983
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US $1.00         =     Rupees (Rs) 9.75
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FISCAL YEAR :    April 1 - March 31
MEASURE (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)     =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kim)  =    0.62 miles (mi)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADHEO          Assistant District Health Education Officer
AIR            All-India Radio
A.p.           Andhra Pradesh State
BEE            Block Extension Educator
CHC            Community Health Center
CHO            Community Health Officer
DHEO           District Health Education Officer
DPEC           District Population Education Center
FEC            Family Education Center
GOI            Government of India
RAF            Health Assistant (Female)
HAM            Health Assistant (Male)
HEO            Health Education Officer
HFWTC          Health Family Welfare Training Center
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
IUD            Intra-Uterine Device
KANFED         Kerala Association for Non-Formal Education
and Development
KHRWS          Kerala Health Research and Welfare Society
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MIES           Management Information and Evaluation System
MOH            Ministry of Health
MOHFP          Ministry of Health and Family Planning
MOHFW          Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
MPWF           Multipurpose Worker Female
MPWM           Multipurpose Worker Male
MTP            Medical Termination of Pregnancy
NSS            National Social Service
OTC            Orientation Training Camps
PHC            Primary Health Center
PWD            Public Works Department
RHFWTC         Regional Health and Family Welfare Training Center
RPEC           Regional Population Education Center
SHC            Subsidiary Health Center
SPEC           State Population Education Center
SRS            Sample Registration Survey
TFR            Total Fertility Rate
U.P.           Uttar Pradesh
VHG            Village Health Guides
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DEFINITIONS
Crmde Birth Rate      Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate      Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Natural       Differience between crude birth ard crude death rates;
Increase            usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population   Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) migration,
Growth              expressed as a percentage of the total population in a
given year.
Age Specific         Number of live births to women in a given age group
Fertility Rate      per 1,000 women in the same age group, in a given
year. It is usually calculated for five-year age
groups.
Total Fertility       The average number of live children that would be born
Rate                per woiln if she were to live to the end of her diild-
bearing years, and bear children according to a given
set of age-specific fertility rates. The Total Fer-
tility Rate often serves as an estimate of the aver-
age numnber of children per family.
Net Reproduction     The nuimber of live-born daughters a cohort of females
Rate                would bear under a given fertility schedule and a
given set of survival probabilities, from birth to the
erd of the child-bearing years.
Infant Mortality     Annual number of deaths of infants under one year per
Rate                 1,000 Live births during the same year.
Maternal Mortality   Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births attribut-
Rate                able to pregnancy, childbirth, or puerperal ccnplica-
tions (i.e., within six weeks fillowing childbirth).
Life Expectancy      Average number of years expected to be lived by
childrean born in a given year if mDrtality rates for
each age/sex group renain the same in the future.
Age Dependency       Ratio of population 14 years and under plus population
Ratio               65 years and over to population aged 15 to 64 years.
Tehsil/Taluk          SubdivLsions of districts.
Equivalent           An index of overall family planning performance cal-
Sterilizations      culated by adding the number of sterilizations per-
formed over a period of time, one-third the number of
IIJDs inserted, one-eighteenth the number of equivalent
convenl:-ional contraceptive users (condoms, diaphragms,
etc.), and one-ninth the number of equivalent oral
contraceptive users. These weights are derived from
an assessuent of numbers of births averted by dif fer-
ent conitraceptive nEmtDds in India.
Dai                   Traditional Birth Atterdant.
Panchayat            A local government body usually covering a large
village or several smaller villages



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF A THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Area                                                       3,287,263 km2
Total Population (March 1981)                                    685.2 million
Density per km2 (March 1981)                                      216
Rate of Natural Increase of the Population (1971-81)             2.25%/annum
Crude Birth Rate (1981)                                          34/1OOOa/
Crude Death Rate (1981)                                          13/1000T/
Life Expectancy at Birth (1977)                                  51.0a/
Infant Mortality Rate (1978)                                     1279t
Maternal Mortality Rate (1972)                                   50/10,000
Urban Population as Percent of Total Population (1981)           23.3%
Adult Literacy Rate (1981)
Males                                                        47%
Females                                                      25%
Primary School Enrollment (1980)
Males                                                        90%
Females                                                      61%
Age Structure (est. 1981)
0-14                                                         39%
15-60                                                         55%
60 and over                                                   6%
Population per Physician (1977)                                  3,135
Population per Nurse (1976)                                      6,320
Percentage of Eligible Couples Currently Protected
Against Pregnancy (1982-83)                                   29%a/
Per Caput Gross National Product (1981)                         US$260
a/ Latest Official GOI estimates.






INDIA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:        The States of Karnataka and Kerala.
Amount:               US$70 million.
Terms:                Standard.
Relending             As part of Central assistance by the Government of
Terms:              India (GOI) to the States for development projects
on terms and conditions applicable at the time. At
present, Central assistance for health and family
welfare activities is provided on a grant basis.
GOI will bear the exchange risk.
Project               The project would assist the GOI in accelerating the
Description:        development of its family welfare program in the back-
ward districts of the two States. It would have the
following major components: (a) service delivery;
(b) demand generation, including information, educa-
tion, and communication activities and population edu-
cation; (c) research and evaluation; and (d) project
management. The proposed project would cover six dis-
tricts in northern Karnataka and four districts in
Kerala, with a total population of 18.2 million.
The project would have as its major objectives a
reduction of fertility and a lowering of infant,
child and maternal mortality.
The risks under the proposed project are attendant
on the difficulties of persuading some 2.8 million
couples to change their attitudes towards the accep-
tance of family planning and MCH practices which will
improve the health of their children and curtail the
size of their families. The project has been designed
to minimize the risks to an acceptable level.



Estimated Costs:                           Local        Foreign        Total
--(US$ Millions) …
Service Delivery                 72.3           8.3         80.6
Demand Generation                 5.8           0.6          6.4
Research and Evaluation           2.6           0.1          2.7
Project Management                7.1           0.5          7.6
Total Base Cost                87.8           9.5         97.3
Physical Contingencies            2.9           0.3          3.2
Price Contingencies              20.5           2.5         23.0
TOTAL                         111.2          12.3        123.5
Total net of taxes
and duties                    103.7          12.3        116.0
Financing Plan:                            Local       Foreign        Total
--------…(US$ Millions)--------
IDA                              57.7          12.3         70.0
GOI                              53.5            -          53.5
Estimated                                    (US$ Million)
Disbursement:         FY 84   FY 85   FY 86   FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90
Annual:          0.5     4.5      8.7      13.8    18.5    18.0    6.0
Cumulative:          0.5      5.0    13.7      27.5    46.0    64.0   70.0
Rate of Return:         Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:       No. 46'31-IN dated November 9, 1983.



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF A THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.        POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                                     1
A.     All-India Trends                                       1
B.     Project States and Districts                           2
II.       NATIONAL FAMILY WELFARE PROGRAM                               3
A.     Historical Overview                                    3
B.     Current Population Policy                              5
C.     Family Welfare Program Organization                    6
D.     Delivery of Family Welfare Services                    7
E.     Program Support Activities                             8
F.     Program Constraints and Weaknesses                    10
G.     Financial Resources                                   13
H.     Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's
Population Sector                               14
III.      THE PROJECT                                                  16
A.     Concept, Objectives and Design                        16
B.     Summary Project Description                           18
C.     Detailed Description                                  19
IV.       PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT    34
A.     Costs                                                 34
B.     Financing                                             37
C.     Procurement                                           38
D.     Disbursements                                         40
E.     Accounts and Audit                                    40
V.        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                       41
A.     Organization and Management                           41
B.     Monitoring and Reporting                              43
VI.       PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                    43
VII.      ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                44



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.        Schematic Represental:ion of Block-Level Health Services Model
to be Implemented by the Year 2000
2.        Project Strategy Paper
3.        Illustrative Performance Indicators
4.        Criteria for Location of Health Facilities
5.        Illustrative List. of Operations Research Studies
6.        Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
TABLES
1.        Selected Census Data
2.        Projected Populations, 1985-2025
3.        Selected Socio-Economic and Demographic Data for
Project States and Districts
4.        India, Karnataka and Kerala : Family Welfare and MCH
Service Statistics
5.        Karnataka and Kerala Project Districts : Family Welfare
Service Statistics, 1978/79 - 1982/83
6.        Karnataka and Kerala : Projected Requirements for Multipurpose
Workers and Health Assistants, Positions Filled and Students
Graduated by Projezt end.
7.        Estimated Costs by Component and Year
8.        Estimated Costs by Expenditure Category and Year
9.        Estimated Costs by Expenditure CategDry and Component
10.       Estimated Disbursements Schedule
11.       Implementation : Population Education
12.       Implementation : Information, Education and Communication
CHARTS
I.        Project Organization Karnataka (Simplified)
II.       Project Organization Kerala (Simplified)
III.      Implementation Chart - Construction
MAP
IBRD 17370 - India, Showing Location of Project Districts



I.   POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS
A. All-India Trends
Population Size and Growth
1.01      India is the world's second most populous nation, with a reported
1981 census population of 685.2 million (Table 1). Decennial census data
since 1871 indicate a rapid acceleration of population growth between 1921
and 1961; since 1951-61 decennial growth has been fairly constant. Al-
though the 2.25% average annual growth rate indicated by the census for
1971-81 is modest compared to that of many developing countries, the sheer
numbers added each year (an annual average of 13.8 million over the period)
are a serious constraint for India's development effort. Future prospects
are even more grim. Bank and other "medium" projections, which assume the
achievement of replacement level fertility by 2020, result in a stationary
population of around 1.8 billion early in the 21st century - larger even
than the projected stationary population for China (Table 2).
Fertility
1.02      Since the mid-1960s, the trend of fertility has clearly been
downwards. The decline in the crude birth rate from 41.1 (1971) to 33.9
(1981) is matched by official estimates of a decline in the total fertil-
ity rate (TFR) from 5.3 in 1970 to 4.3 in 1978 (latest year available).
A rise in the female age at marriage as well as a decline in marital ferti-
lity have both contributed to the overall decline. Lower marital fertility
can be attributed in large measure to the family planning program, which
has been instrumental in increasing contraceptive prevalence from 12% in
1971 to almost 29% in 1983. The national figures mask substantial varia-
tions among the States: estimated TFRs ranged from 5.6 in Uttar Pradesh to
2.7 in Kerala (1978), while contraceptive prevalence varied from 38% in
Maharashtra down to 12% in Uttar Pradesh (1982).
Mortality
1.03      The long-term decline in mortality in India has slowed over the
last several decades, with the crude death rate now about 13 (1981) and
life expectancy currently only a little over 50. Infant mortality in 1978
was estimated to be around 125; about 20% of all children died before the
age of five (Table 3). Future improvements are to a significant extent
tied to socio-economic development, especially in nutrition, sanitation
and housing. Much greater attention to specific maternal and child health
(MCH) interventions is required if progress is to be hastened. As with
fertility, there are large differences among the States. Crude death rates
ranged from below 10 in Kerala and the northeastern States to more than 16
in Uttar Pradesh (1981). Similarly, infant mortality was less than 50 in
Kerala but more than 175 in Uttar Pradesh (1978).



-2
Age and Sex Distribution
1.04      The population of India is a youthful one, with about 40% of the
population currently under the age of 15. India is one of the few coun-
tries in the world still charac:terized by higher mortality rates for
females at every age until about 40, with the result that there are more
males than females in the population (Table 3). Traditional preferences
for male offspring as well as d[iscrimination against females in terms of
access to food and medical care! appear to underlie this phenomenon. The
situation in the southern States, however, has never been as extreme.
Urbanization
1.05      The population was 23% urban in 1981 (Table 3), up from 20% in
1971, and projections indicate that urbanization will approach 30% by
2000. Although this is not a particularly rapid rate of urbanization for
a developing country, there are no grounds for complacency about the prob-
lems of India's cities and towns, which already find their infrastructures
overstrained.
B.   fLoject States and Districts
1.06      The project will be implemented in six districts of northern
Karnataka and four districts of northern and central Kerala, the adminis-
trative sub-divisions of which are called taluks.
Karnataka
1.07      By a number of measures, notably literacy, and contraceptive
prevalence, Karnataka is close to the average for all of India. Urban
population is relatively high, and, as in all the southern States, infant
mortality is significantly lowe!r than the all-India figure (Tables 3 and
4). The six northern project districts (Belgaum, Bidar, Bijapur, Dharwar,
Gulbarga, and Raichur), had a population of 13.2 million in 1981, or 36% of
the State. These large districts are generally considered to be backward,
indicated by significantly lowe!r population density, literacy, and urban
population than the State averaLges (Table 3). Largely as a result of the
greater areas and distances involved, the health and family welfare infra-
structure is deficient. ContraLceptive prevalence in 1981-82 was estimated
to be about 5% lower than for the State as a whole, while the number of
equivalent sterilizations per thousand population was almost 20% lower
(Tables 4 and 5).



Ke raal a
1.08      Kerala is in many ways distinctive.  It is the smallest of the
major Indian States and the most densely populated, although due to dis-
persed settlement patterns (in contrast to village patterns characteristic
of most of India) it is not highly urban. Approximately 20% of the popula-
tion is Christian and 20% Muslim. The State is known for high literacy
rates and, in recent years, a rapid decline in fertility, although econo-
mic development has lagged. Infant mortality is the lowest in India and
contraceptive prevalence among the highest (Tables 3 and 4). State aver-
ages, however, conceal an extraordinary degree of social and ecological
diversity. Birth rates are substantially higher in highland and midland
regiorns than in the lowlands. Infant mortality in the highland region is
almost twice as high as the State average. There is also enormous varia-
tion in contraceptive prevalence by district, which in 1982 was estimated
to range from over 50% down to 14%.
1.09      The four project districts had a population of 6.0 million, or
24% of the State, in 1981. Wayanad and Idukki are almost entirely high-
land, while Palghat is about evenly divided between highland and midland.
Malappuram, the only project district with a coastal area, is heavily
Muslim (about 65% in 1971). Contraceptive prevalence in the project
districts is low, from 14% in Malappuram to 19% in Idukki and Palghat in
1981-82. The number of equivalent sterilizations in 1982-83 for the four
districts combined was more than 30% lower than for the State as a whole
(Tables 4 and 5).
II.   NATIONAL FAMILY WELFARE PROGRAM
A. Historical Overview
2.01      India was the first developing country to recognize a potential
population problem and in 1952 inaugurated a national family planning pro-
gram aimed at slowing population growth. Initial activities were limited,
however, and it was only in the wake of the 1961 census, when the implica-
tions of the reported 2.0% annual growth rate were first widely apprecia-
ted, that serious efforts to implement a program were undertaken. In 1966,
the Government of India (GOI) established a Department of Family Planning
in the renamed Ministry of Health and Family Planning (MOHFP) and annual
targets for family planning field workers were introduced. The program at-
tempted two major campaigns using a mass camp approach, intra-uterine de-
vices (IUDs) in the mid-sixties and sterilization in the early-seventies.



-4 -
Both achieved initial success, but in both cases organizational difficul-
ties and inadequate provision for medical follow-up rapidly eroded public
confidence, and these efforts were curtailed. More successful was a scheme
to promote subsidized sale of condoms through the retail outlets of the
country's major producers of consumer goods. A hospital postpartum program
also achieved good results, but its impact is limited because the great
majority of deliveries take place in rural homes.
2.02      Following the declaration of the Emergency in 1975, family plan-
ing became a major political priority and the MOHFP issued a formal state-
ment of national population policy. Linking population and development,
the statement supported 16 specific measures, including greater compensa-
tion for sterilization acceptors, increasing the minimum age of legal mar-
riage, and higher priority for female literacy, which put the GOI firmly
behind a policy of fertility reduction.
2.03      The most visible consequence of this increased political support
for family planning was a dramatic increase in the number of sterilizations
(8.3 million in 1976-77 compared with 1.4 million in 1975-76). These
results, however, were accompanied in some cases by exertion of undue
pressure by overzealous workers, which became an issue in the elections
of March 1977 which led to a change of Government.
2.04      The new Government did not dismantle the family planning program.
In a policy statement issued in June 1977, emphasis was shifted to the in-
tegration of voluntary family planning with basic health, particularly MCH,
and the approach named "family welfare". The name of the Ministry was cor-
respondingly changed to "Ministry of Health and Family Welfare" (MOHFW).
In general, however, the statement reiterated the overall aims of the ear-
lier policy declaration.
2.05      Two major family welfare programs were launched in the late-
1970s: the community health volunteer scheme under which each village
selects a volunteer who after training returns to the village to provide
basic assistance in first aid, MCH, family planning and sanitation; and a
program to train traditional midwives (dais). The future direction of the
program was indicated with the formulation of a "Model Plan" (drawn largely
from the experience of the first India population project) which specified
expanded levels for facilities, staffing and training, all designed to
improve program performance in relatively backward districts of specific
States. Despite these initiatives, however, health and family welfare
staff were generally demoralized, and program achievements fell off
drastically.



- 5  -
2.06      A change of Government in January 1980 did not result in major
changes in the family welfare program. The community health volunteers
scheme was retained with a change of name to village health guides (VHG)
scheme. The Model Plan became the basis of a program to utilize interna-
tional assistance in selected districts of 12 States ("Area Projects").
Family welfare is included in the 20-Point Program, a list of the current
Government's priority development programs. The program has finally re-
covered momentum lost in the aftermath of the Emergency, with the number
of acceptors in 1981-82 for the first time exceeding pre-Emergency levels,
and preliminary estimates for 1982-83 indicate even greater progress
Table 4).
B. Current Population Policy
2.07      The present Government has not yet issued a formal statement on
population policy.   From the Sixth Plan documents, statements by the Prime
Minister and directives issued from the MOHFW, it is clear that the GOI's
population policy is to reduce fertility by implementing a family planning
program and introducing social strategies which are known to contribute to
fertility reduction. The Planning Commission's working committee on popu-
lation (May 1980) set the following demographic targets for the family wel-
fare program, to be achieved by 1996.
Crude Birth Rate                     21 (per 1000 population)
Crude Death Rate                      9 (per 1000 population)
Infant Mortality Rate                60 (per 1000 live births)
Life Expectancy                      64 (years)
Net Reproduction Ratel/              1 (female child per woman)
Immunization Coverage                80 percent
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate        60 percent
2.08      To meet these goals, the revised Sixth Plan (1980-85) document
recommended adoption of social strategies addressed to fertility reduction
generally as well as more specific measures relating to family planning and
MCH services.   They included greater support for female education and a
further increase in the age at which women may legally marrv from the pres-
ent 18 years. For family planning, the Plan proposed the promotion of the
use of temporary contraceptive methods by younger couples for child spac-
ing, emphasis on community involvement, and greater use of interpersonal
communication and small group meetings to generate demand for services.
1/ An NRR of 1 by 1996 is estimated to imply a stationary population of
about 1.4 billion by the year 2050.



- 6  -
The Plan also proposed that fam:Lly welfare strategies should be adapted to
the socio-economic and demographic characteristics of each State. More re-
cently, the GOI has increased the monetary compensation paid to steriliza-
tion and IUD acceptors, revised the eligibility criteria for steriliza-
tion to include couples with only two living children, and promoted the use
of oral contraceptives.   A scheme to issue "green cards" to sterilized
couples entitling them to priority medical attention and other preferential
benefits is under consideration.,
2.09      Despite political changes, India's family planning policy since
1976 has been remarkably consistent. Dissensions created by Emergency
measures have disappeared and there now appears to be a solid consensus on
population policy across virtually the entire spectrum of political opinion
in India represented in New Delhi. This open political support, however,
is relatively recent and has not: yet spread to State, district or
panchayat.
C.  Family Welfare Program Organization
2.10      Under India's constitution, policy-making for population matters,
including family planning, is the joint responsibility of the States and
the central government, while program implementation is a State responsibi-
lity. Since the family welfare program is considered of national impor-
tance, expenditures incurred by the States are met from GOI funds. The
central MOHFW is responsible for over-all program direction, guidance and
evaluation. Within the Ministry, the Department of Family Welfare is head-
ed by a Secretary to the GOI, and in each major State there is a Regional
Director for Health and Family Welfare responsible to the Centre for co-
ordinating with and advising State governments on program implementation as
well as feeding back information.
2.11      In Kerala, the family welfare program is supervised by the State
MOH. An Additional Director in charge of the State Family Welfare Bureau
serves under the Director of Health Services and is supported by Assistant
Directors for Family Welfare and for MCH, and a State Mass Education and
Media Officer. At the district level the District Family Welfare Bureau is
headed by the District Family Welfare Medical Officer, who supervises all
aspects of the program. In May 1983, the Government of Kerala adopted the
multipurpose approach to health which will result in the integrated deliv-
ery of health services, including family welfare. Adoption of this ap-
proach entails considerable reorganization and training, particularly of
male workers for their conversion from a single purpose role. Such a



- 7-
proc'-ss iI vitably takes time.  Job `:.actions,supervisory responsibilitfes
and salary structures have to be redefined. Hence, integration is no long-
er an issue in Kerala. Full implementation of this integrated approach is
expec-2d to be achieved during the project implementation period.
2.12      The integration of health and family welfare activities in
Karna>ika was adopted in the mid-seventies. The Director of Health and
Family Welfare heads the Department of Health and Family Welfare and is
assisted by an Additional Director for Family Welfare and MCH, who in turn
has Deputy Directors for Family Welfare and for MCH. Divisional Joint
Directors of Health and Family Welfare Services coordinate the program at
divisional level.  At district level, all health and family welfare acti-
vities are supervised by the District Medical Officer who has three depu-
ties among whom supervisory work is distributed on a geographical basis.
D.   Delijery of Family Welfare Services
2.13      The pattern of service delivery is essentially similar throughout
india but has been implemented unevenly.  This section describes the pat-
tern to be introduced everywhere by 2000, the implementation of which is
being accelerated in the proposed project (see Annex 1, for a schematic
representation of the new pattern).  Conceptually, the pattern employs
multipurpose workers trained to deliver a variety of services. In prac-
tice, not all areas have been covered by this scheme and the remnants of
vertical programs such as malaria and leprosy persist. At the periphery,
services are provided from a small subcenter by a Multipurpose Worker
(Female) (MPWF) and a Multipurpose Worker (Male) (MPWM). The MPWF's re-
sponsibilities are diverse and include the provision of pre- and post-natal
services to mothers and children, disseminating family planning informa-
tion, distributing conventional contraceptives such as condoms, and deliv-
ering babies. The MPWM also provides family planning information and dis-
tributes condoms, but concentrates mainly on environmental sanitation.
Between them, they are expected to cover a population of 5,000 (3,000 in
remote hilly and tribal areas) although in many parts of India, including
the project districts, this coverage has not yet been achieved. The multi-
purpose workers are supported by VHGs and trained traditional birth atten-
dants (dais) at a ratio of one VHG and one dai for a population of 1,000.
The VHGs are selected by communities, trained by primary health center
(PHC) staff and paid an honorarium by the Government to educate and involve
the community in measures of promotive and preventive health care and fam-
ily planning acceptance, treat minor ailments, and report communicable dis-
eases and vital events.  Dais are selected on the basis of their experience
and given training by PHC staff to raise the standard of their maternity



- 8 -
services and to promote the need for immunization and family planning, and
case referral. A Health Assistant (Female) (HAF) and a Health Assistant
(Male) (HAM) each supervise four MPWFs and four MPWMs respectively. In
some States, there are small dispensaries, often manned by a doctor and
auxiliary staff, which are usually a legacy of pre-Independence govern-
ments. The GOI proposes to upgrade them eventually to PHCs covering a
population of about 25,000; PHCs are now the apex of the delivery systems
within a community development block with an average population of 80-
100,000. The first stage, represented in the proposed project, will be
to upgrade two existing dispensaries in a block into two subsidiary health
centers (SHCs). Each SHC will have a doctor, a HAM and a HAF who will su-
pervise the work of four subcenters. PHC's staff include three doctors,
one of whom is in overall administrative charge of all health and family
welfare activities in the block. Eventually, all existing PHCs will be
developed into Community Health Centers (CHC) providing specialist obstet-
ric and paediatric services. At this stage of development, however, only
one PHC in every four blocks will be upgraded to a CHC.
2.14      Subcenter workers are the principal contacts with eligible
couples for family planning motivation and acceptance. From their contacts
with mothers, MPWFs play a most important role. In addition to condoms,
the GOI has sanctioned the distribution of oral contraceptives by MPWF's
provided that there are no contra-indications and that each acceptor is
examined by a doctor within three months of first taking orals. Training
for oral contraceptive distribution has only recently started and is con-
tingent on the availability of adequate supplies.  IUDs are allowed to be
inserted by HAFs and nurses after training.   Vasectomies and female ster-
ilizations are performed at PHCs by trained doctors provided the facili-
ties are of the approved standard. In the last two years, the laparascopic
technique for female sterilization has played an increasing role in most
States. Again, only trained doctors in suitable facilities are allowed to
provide such services; when a sufficient number of acceptors have been re-
cruited, teams of doctors and supporting staff visit PHCs to hold "camps".
Abortions may be performed only by approved doctors on approved premises,
usually a taluk level or larger hospital.
E. Program Support Activities
2.15      The delivery of family welfare services is supported primarily by
three sets of activities - information, education and communication (IEC)
activities, training, and research and evaluation. IEC efforts in the past
have largely been confined to use of the mass media. It is now recognized



- 9 -
that while mass media channels may be useful for popularizing general no-
tions such as the small family norm, interpersonal communication is cru-
cial to providing community leaders and individual couples with information
about specific family planning methods and generating demand. To be effec-
tive, an interpersonal communication approach requires personnel with pro-
fessional orientation, training and skills as communicators rather than
simply producers of mass media materials. Many sanctioned IEC staff posi-
tions at State, district, and block levels go unfilled or are filled by
individuals with inadequate qualifications. At PHC level, a Block Exten-
sion Educator (BEE) organizes activities for an entire block. The BEE
works under the direction of the Assistant District Health Education
Officer (ADHEO) at taluk level who in turn reports to the District Health
Education Officer (DHEO). Each post reports to the appropriate level of
medical officer, and this generally tends to result in their being used for
a variety of non IEC functions.
2.16      Whilst the GOI program has led to increasing awareness of family
planning practices, it has been less successful in creating widespread ac-
ceptance. With the present levels of acceptance (29% of eligible couples),
the major program need is for demand generation. The elements of the GOI's
IEC strategies are acceptable, but the need now is to implement them effi-
ciently, adopting a targetted or campaign-based approach. For this to be
successful, the twin problems of a poorly organized and trained staff and
failure by program managers fully to realize the importance of IEC need to
be tackled at State level. Although planning will perforce have to be done
at this level, its focus should be on districts or smaller community units.
2.17      The training of family welfare program staff is carried out by
medical colleges, paramedical training schools and Regional Health and
Family Welfare Training Centers (RHFWTC). Doctors are trained largely on
conventional western patterns with emphasis on curative medicine. MPWFs
receive 18 months' training at basic paramedical schools. The RHFWTCs are
responsible for training IEC staff, trainers (PHC doctors) for multipurpose
worker conversion training, and short courses for district medical staff.
There is no organized system of routine refresher training to upgrade
skills or introduce new ideas.
2.18      At State level, responsibility for research and evaluation rests
with a Demographic and Evaluation Cell under the Additional Director for
Family Welfare. These cells collect service statistics relating to MCH and
Family Welfare work from the records of MPWFs which are collated by a sta-
tistical clerk at PHC level and a statistical assistant at district level.
Data are routinely checked by staff from the Demographic and Evaluation
Cell but little evaluation is carried out. Other primary health statistics
are collected by the same mechanism but collated at State level by a Vital



- 10 -
Statistics Unit. All-India performance data are compiled by the Evaluation
Division of the Department of Family Welfare in New Delhi. Most of the pro-
gram's evaluation is contracted by this Division to other organizations
such as the National Institute of Health and Family Welfare or the 12 Demo-
graphic Training and Research Centers around the country. The latter are
attached to universities and wholly subsidized by the Government which has
not, in the past, made maximum use of their resources.  Important program
evaluation work is carried out by an evaluation unit in the Planning Com-
mission. Much program evaluation in India is demographic rather than op-
erational in orientation, but the population centers established under the
first project have made very useful operational evaluation studies.
F.   Program Constraints and Weaknesses
2.19      If there is a basic consensus about population policy in India
and satisfaction that the family welfare program has achieved its highest
level yet of contraceptive usage by eligible couples, there is also ac-
knowledgement that there are major deficiencies in the program. This judge-
ment is supported by the substantial variation in contraceptive prevalence
among the States (from 38% in Maharashtra to 12% in Uttar Pradesh in 1981-
82). It should also be noted that the two States where contraceptive prev-
alence is highest, Maharashtra and Gujarat, are by no means the highest in
terms of socio-economic indicators such as income or education. Some of
the problems are rooted in the nature of Indian society, others in long-
standing bureaucratic traditions, whilst still others stem from a scarcity
of resources; many of the problems are not amenable to quick solutions.
The MOHFW is well aware of the situation, but the fact that program imple-
mentation is a State responsibility limits the central Government's influ-
ence. Major areas of program weakness include coverage of services, over-
reliance on sterilization, management, monitoring and evaluation and IEC.
Coverage of Services
2.20      The development of rural health and family welfare infrastructure
in India since Independence is, by any standards, a remarkable achievement
for a large, poor and mostly rural country; from virtually nothing in 1947
to 5,691 PHCs and 57,638 subcenters in 1982. However, the proportion of
the population using a facility or reached by subcenter workers falls off
rapidly with increasing distance and, particularly in badly under-served
areas, there is a continuing need to expand infrastructure and service
availability.  Subcenters in peripheral areas are often located in rented
premises which are substandard. Inadequate public transportation and the
absence or inadequacy of rural roads curtail public accessibility. Equip-
ment and vehicles are, all too often, old and unusable. Contraceptives,



- 11 -
supplied free to clients from central supplies, are generally well distrib-
uted aithough IUDs and oral contraceptives have been in short supply in
some areas in recent years. To achieve integration, the GOI has adopted
a multipurpose approach but cannot make it mandatory and it is taking time
to implement.  It was adopted in Kerala, for example, only in May 1983.
Once adopted, the practical difficulties of reassigning large cadres of
male workers from vertical programs are considerable. In Uttar Pradesh,
for example, dissatisfaction with new levels of supervision and salary
scales have led to court actions which have thus far prevented effective
integration.
Reliance on Sterilization
2.21      Since the early 1970s the Indian program has relied almost en-
tirely on sterilization. With the spread of laparotomy and laparoscopy,
the emphasis has switched increasingly to female sterilization, which
accounted for about 80% of all sterilizations by 1981-82. In terms of
effectiveness and the most efficient use of scarce resources, sterilization
has been an appropriate choice for the program. However, at the program's
current stage of development, continued emphasis on sterilization alone is
a serious constraint to the achievement of rapid increases in contraceptive
prevalence. If younger couples with no or only one child are to be brought
into the program, it must be as users of temporary methods. With infant
mortality levels still high, temporary methods also have an unexploited
appeal for couples with small families who are unwilling to undergo
sterilization immediately.
2.22      Although the GOI is actively promoting the increased use of tem-
porary methods, the primary obstacle to their wider use lies in the atti-
tudes of State and district program staff. There is a widespread atti-
tude that the need to limit family size is a national priority which indi-
vidual couples, particularly if they are poor and uneducated, are hardly
capable of comprehending, and that the best strategy, once couples have two
or more children, is (with the help of incentives) to persuade them to be
sterilized and be done with it. There is little interest in educating
couples about the variety of contraceptive options available to them and
helping them to select those most appropriate. Too often, the emphasis is
on the quantity of achievements (i.e., the number of sterilizations) rather
than on the quality of services provided.
Management
2.23      There are management deficiencies at all levels of the program.
To highlight one of the more important: doctors charged with running a PHC,
let alone the medical services in an entire district, have substantial ad-
ministrative and management responsibilities for which their professional



- 12 -
training provides little or no preparation. Experience from the second
project in Uttar Pradesh indicates that doctors in such positions typically
identify their problems (which are numerous) with unsatisfactory subordi-
nates and unsympathetic superiors. The idea that they themselves have a
professional responsibility to use existing personnel and resources to
achieve maximum possible results in the face of difficulties is not under-
stood.
2.24      At a different level, management weaknesses appear in a lack of
well developed planning in terms of directing resources towards the
achievement of identifiable goals within a specific period. Targetting as
a planning and monitoring tool has long been a feature of the GOI program
but as targets are set in terms of all-India objectives, their relevance to
smaller administrative units is minimal. Planning and targetting in family
welfare programs are notoriously difficult exercises since human behavioral
patterns are one of the prime variants. Family welfare is given deserved
prominence as an important development program, but it is, in fact, only
one part of a complex health system, none of the components of which can be
considered in isolation from the others in planning. Nevertheless, there
is considerable scope in the family welfare program for improvements, par
ticularly in areas such as manpower planning and information gathering.
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.25      In most of India, the gathering of program performance informa-
tion is cumbersome and time consuming. To address this issue, the first
Bank-assisted project developed a management-information-evaluation system
(MIES) to provide accurate information quickly to program managers, who can
then make use of it to monitor performance and provide their subordinates
with appropriate feedback. Although the GOI has recommended that the
system be introduced throughout India, GOI has no mandate to enforce its
adoption and conservative State directorates have so far resisted change.
Even with the information available under the existing system there is
little analysis and feedback except to calculate the level of performance
achieved; reporting and evaluation are essentially quantitative in charac-
ter. Although India has considerable institutional resources for opera-
tional research (and the available literature on population and family
welfare is vast) the institutions remain essentially an academic preserve
and their work has not been effectively utilized by program managers.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
2.26      Whilst the GOI-s IEC program has led to increasing awareness of
family planning, it has been less successful in creating widespread accep-
tance. IEC efforts in the past have largely been confined to the use of
mass media, but the GOI now recognizes that interpersonal communication is



- 13 -
also needed to generate demand for services. For this combination of ap-
proaches, personnel with professional orientation, training and skills as
communicators rather than producers of mass media materials are required.
A shortage of professional IEC staff is a serious constraint at all program
levels, more particularly at State level where there is a need to plan and
manage IEC strategies devised to support directly priority program inter-
ventions. At the same time, program managers need to be convinced of the
need for IEC activities to generate demand for the services which they
offer.
2.27      Largely as a product of these constraints, there has been a ten-
dency to rely on centrally produced materials which may be unsuitable for
local conditions and not geared to program problems which managers are
trying to solve. Experience with the second project has shown that the de-
centralized production of effective strategies and materials is possible,
that a fully staffed and retrained IEC cadre is capable of providing effec-
tive support, and that program managers can make good use of their IEC
personnel. A major cause for concern, however, is the lack of professional
leadership of IEC programs. Individuals with the necessary balance of
communication skills and planning and managerial experience are rarely
found in the family welfare program. Advertising and marketing skills,
developed to a high degree in the private sector in India, have rarely been
used in the national program.
G.   Financial Resources
2.28      The central MOHFW and the corresponding State ministries are
almost entirely funded through India's five-year development plans. The
GOI provides all funds under the family welfare head of the Plan, while
the States provide approximately 70% of the funding under health. The
Sixth Plan (1980-85) calls for a family welfare outlay of US$1,026.7
million, 68% of which is allocated for services and supplies and 25%
for MCH care. Expenditures such as those for the construction of health
facilities or the training of personnel may be supported from either budg-
et, although in practice the distinction is difficult to make since the
provision of services is integrated. Expenditure on family welfare has
increased significantly from US$27.6 million in Third Plan (1961-66) to
US$1,026.7 million in the current Sixth Plan (1980-85); per caput expen-
diture has risen from Rs.0.54 to Rs.14.30 over the same period. Expen-
diture on family welfare is about one-third of combined health and family
welfare expenditures.



- 14 -
2.29      International assistance has been provided to support population
activities since 1967.  In the current Sixth Plan, external assistance is
estimated to be about US$205 million or about 19% of the total budget.
Support has come from the UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO, and IDA, as well as the
governments of the United Kingdom (ODA), Norway (NORAD), Denmark (DANIDA),
Sweden (SIDA) and the United States (USAID).   The area projects program
(para. 2.06) is being assisted by UNFPA, IDA, ODA, DANIDA and USAID. NORAD
is assisting in expanding the postpartum program to 50 sub-district hospi-
tals. USAID is providing US$20 million to fund the family welfare activi-
ties of private institutes and organizations. In addition, agreement is
being negotiated with USAID to provide US$32 million for a scheme for the
commercial marketing of contraceptives and a communications component. The
International Planned Parenthood Federation provides financial support to
the Family Planning Association of India, a voluntary organization. Among
private organizations, the Population Council, the Ford Foundation and the
Rockefeller Foundation support, inter alia, demographic and biomedical re-
search.
H.   Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's Population Sector
2.30      The Bank's first, largely experimental, population project in
India was initially discussed in 1969 and became effective in May 1973.
Covering five districts in Karnataka and six in Uttar Pradesh, it was
funded through an IDA credit of US$21.1 million and a SIDA grant of US$10.6
million. Although planned as a five-year project, it was extended by two
years to 1980 as a result of program disruptions during the Emergency. Ex-
perience from this project was incorporated into the GOI Model Plan, which
provided the basis for a second India population project covering six
districts in Uttar Pradesh and three in Andhra Pradesh. Supported by
an IDA credit of US$48 million and planned for five years, the second
project was appraised in 1979 and became effective in July 1980.  Both
population projects have focused on improving reporting and evaluation
systems, professional and management training, and the provision of ser-
vices in inadequately covered rural areas; the second project also con-
centrated on developing IEC activities.
2.31      In recent years Bank contributions to research in demography and
family planning in India have included support for a comparative study of
fertility in Sri Lanka, Kerala and Karnataka. The population centres es-
tablished in Uttar Pradesh and Karmataka under the first population project
have carried out a variety of research and survey projects. The Bank has
also supported analysis of data from the Narangwal (Punjab) nutrition and



- 15 -
population research projects. Other contributions have included an overall
review of demographic, health and nutritional status as well as the family
planning program in India (1978), and a summary of experimental health,
nutrition and family planning projects in India (1982).
2.32      Recognition by the Planning Commission's Working Group on Popula-
tion Policy in its Final Report of May 1980 that "the large differentials
in the socio-economic and demographic conditions and family planning per-
formance among the various States in the country suggest that the strate-
gies for the realization of the demographic goals should be suitably modi-
fied and made relevant to each State", led to the development of the con-
cept of "area projects" which was later endorsed in a Population Council
Report (published in 1982) commissioned by USAID. This approach, support-
ed by the international donor community, has been the basis of GOI's policy
of one donor-one State for its area projects program from 1980 onwards.
Bank-assisted projects have been directed towards States and districts of
States selected on the basis of criteria which included size, evidence of a
population problem, family planning performance which was neither the best
nor the worst, and management ability. Even though it is a relatively more
advanced State, Kerala was recently added to the list because it also has
backward districts, good prospects for successful project implementation
and would exemplify more rapidly than most other States in India what can
be achieved in lowering fertility and infant mortality. In addition to
contributing to the model plan, the development of a MIES and the intro-
duction of management training for doctors are two results of the Bank's
ongoing dialogue on population with GOI.
2.33      External assistance to the GOI program is directed primarily at
specific States under common guidelines. The Bank's association is witih
four States - Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and (starting with
the proposed third project) Kerala; with the ongoing second and proposed
third projects its assistance directly covers some 45 million people. The
Bank's strategy is to continue to support the GOI program and encourage the
GOI's efforts to coordinate and expand cofinancing of the program as a
whole. Assistance will continue to be mainly directed at those States of
which the Bank has considerable knowledge and with which it has close rela-
tionships.  Discussions have recently been initiated with the GOI to devel-
op more assistance. Whilst improved and expanded service coverage will
continue to be focussed on backward districts, the objective will be to
assist program development in States as a whole. This will allow more
effective attention to be paid to overall program weaknesses such as man-
agement and monitoring. Within the four States with which the Bank is
associated, priority attention will continue to be given to Uttar Pradesh
which, given its huge size and poor performance, continues to diminish the
overall impact of the national program. Whilst program improvements can be
made most effectively at State level, opportunities for assistance to the
program as a whole will be sought; support for evaluation of the national
program using State Demographic Training and Research Centers, and promot-
ing population education and demand generation through adult education
agencies are among the possibilities.



- 16 -
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Concept, Objectives and Design
3.01      Because of the magnitude of India's potential population, its
relatively modest annual growth rate of 2% and its considerable achievement
of 29% contraceptive prevalence (1983) cannot be viewed complacently. Con-
currently with programs to raise the living standards of 450 million rural
poor people, India's continuing effort to moderate fertility demands inter-
national attention and assistance. This project forms part of that effort,
which is currently supported by four multilateral and five bilateral agen-
cies. Prepared by the directorates of health and family welfare in
Karnataka and Kerala with GOI assistance, the proposed project is a further
development of the GOI's area projects program which focuses on areas that
are relatively backward in terms of socio-economic development, health ser-
vice infrastructure and family welfare performance. If national goals
(para. 2.07) are to be achieved, there is need to be selective in applying
resources; the area projects program is a recognition of this need.
3.02      The proposed project is the sixth in that program and is similar
to the second IDA-assisted population project now being implemented in
Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, which is based on the model plan. The
pattern to be followed in the project is that described in para. 2.13; the
service delivery pattern of the model plan has been modified slightly ac-
cording to the pattern of services contained in the GOIs planning docu-
ment "Health for All by the Year 2000 A.D." (March 1981). The project
will provide experience with the administration of the service delivery
pattern which GOI plans to have implemented throughout India by 2000.
3.03      In selecting the project areas for the proposed third project, it
was considered that its timing was not propitious for further involvement
in Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh where the second population project is
still being implemented. Hence, Karnataka with a large number of backward
districts was selected to continue the program which started under the
first project. Of the States not being assisted by other donors, Kerala
was selected even though it is overall relatively more advanced, because it
also has backward districts and because prospects for good project imple-
mentation could demonstrate what could be achieved in lowering fertility
and infant mortality. Although Kerala has a low total fertility rate, a
low infant mortality rate and a, relatively good contraceptive prevalence
rate of 35% (1981/82), there is a wide variation among its districts.



- 17 -
Three of the four selected districts (which have one-quarter of Kerala's
population) have a prevalence rate of about 19%; the fourth (and largest of
the four) has a rate of only 14%. Total literacy in the districts is only
59% compared with 69% for the State as a whole.
3.04      The project has been planned bearing in mind results from Bank-
sponsored fertility surveys in Kerala and Karnataka (1980). Significant
levels of unmet demand for family planning revealed in both States suggest
the need to improve service delivery as well as IEC efforts. The large
proportion of couples with two children who want a third child indicates
another essential focus for IEC strategies. Project planning has also
drawn on intensive village-level demographic research in a Karnataka dis-
trict carried out in 1979-82 under the aegis of the Population Centre in
Bangalore (established with Bank assistance as part of the first India
population project) and supported by the Australian National University.
Invaluable insights stemming from this study include the depth and extent
of fears concerning the physical side effects of sterilization and the im-
portance of persuading parents that the common respiratory and gastro-
intestinal illnesses of infants are amenable to modern medical treatment.
3.05      Project design also takes into account the considerable socio-
economic differences between the selected districts of northern Karnataka
and Kerala. In the latter State, local government and community organiza-
tions are well developed and education is compulsory for all children
through the 10th standard. In the project districts the literacy rate is
59%, and 92% of the villages are electrified. In the northern districts
of Karnataka, community organizations are not well developed, the literacy
rate is only 33% (for women it is only 20%) and 73% of the villages are
electrified (Table 3).   Three of these districts - Bidar, Gulbarga and
Raichur - have the lowest literacy rates of all the districts in Karnataka.
These differences are reflected primarily in the differing approaches to
IEC and population education activities in the two States.
3.06      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
a.    support, in the context of the area projects program,
the attainment of India's population goals;
b.    reduce fertility and lower infant, child and maternal
mortality by focussing on specific program interven-
tions and generating demand for services; and
c.    ameliorate program constraints at State and district
level by improving service coverage and quality,
management, planning, monitoring and evaluation.



- 18 -
3.07      The project proposes to achieve these objectives by:
a.    providing staff and facilities to levels consonant with
need and financial and human resources;
b.    improving professional and technical skills by programs
of training and retraining;
c.    concentrating on specific interventions, such as non-
terminal methods of contraception, identification of high
risk mothers, identification and surveillance of babies and
young children who fail to thrive and the use of oral re-
hydration for diarrhoea, in order to accelerate fertility,
morbidity and mortality declines;
d.    developing IEC strategies which reinforce and support pro-
gram interventions through inter-personal communication
and available media resources;
e.    involving communities in family welfare programs and genera-
ting participation by organizing orientation training camps
(OTCs) and advisory committees, and involving other govern-
ment departments, social service organizations and local
government authorities; and
f.    providing for improved management by introducing training
for managers at State, district and block levels, as well
as management information systems to improve monitoring,
evaluation and feedback.
B.   Summary Project Description
3.08      The project, which will be implemented over a five-year period,
will have four major functional components: (a) service delivery; (b) de-
mand generation activities; (c) monitoring, evaluation and operational re-
search; and (d) project management.
a.    Service Delivery (US$80.6 million)I/
The construction and refurbishing of subcenters, SHCs, PHCs,
CHCs, and maintenance workshops, provision of furniture,
equipment and vehicles, training and retraining of staff,
incremental costs of additional staff and maintenance of
equipment and vehicles, to extend and improve the coverage
of family welfare services;
_/ All figures in the paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 19 -
b.    Demand Generation (US$6.4 million)
(M)    Provision for community education, IEC materials, the
production, printing and distribution of films, training and
retraining of staff, incremental costs of additional staff,
furniture, equipment and vehicles, consultant fees and study
tours to support service delivery activities and generate de-
mand for family welfare services;
(ii)   Carry out population education courses, training of
lecturers, provision of population education booklets and
materials, incremental costs of additional staff and pay-
ment of honoraria to lecturers, study tours, furniture,
equipment and vehicles, to increase awareness of the need
for acceptance of family welfare services;
c.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Operational Research (US$2.7 million)
Provision for longitudinal sample surveys, introduction of a
MIES, and operational research studies, including incremental
costs for additional staff, printing and processing costs, fur-
niture, equipment and vehicles, to provide basic demographic,
health and program information to assist program planning, moni-
toring and evaluation; and
d.    Project Management (US$7.6 million)
Furniture, equipment and vehicles and the salaries of additional
staff required to implement the project efficiently.
C.   Detailed Project Description
Service Delivery
3.09      The project provides facilities and staff needed to expand and
improve service delivery to the pattern outlined in para. 2.13. In the
selected project districts in Karnataka, there are now 1,411 subcenters,
each of which serves some 6,800 rural inhabitants; 516 operate from
facilities built for that purpose, the remainder (895) being housed in
rented quarters.  To achieve the desired level of services, another 533
subcenters will be opened. There are now 518 subcenters in the selected
districts of Kerala, or one for 11,300 inhabitants; 209 of these have
purpose-built facilities. Another 860 subcenters will be opened. To
construct facilities for all those subcenters now operating in rented
quarters and for the additional subcenters required to meet the new levels



- 20 -
of service would not be replicable throughout India because of financial
constraints. The GOI has, therefore, decided that the national program
should aim to provide 50% of all subcenters with proper buildings by the
end of the Seventh Plan (1989).In the project districts, therefore, 650
subcenters would be built in Karnataka and 568 in Kerala. The remaining
subcenters will function in rented building and will be supplied with the
necessary furniture and equipment.
3.10      A legacy of the past are a number of facilities, called primary
health units in Karnataka and dispensaries in Kerala, which are staffed by
a doctor and supporting staff and financed from State revenues. To provide
more adequate family welfare support services and improve service manage-
ment, two of these facilities in each PHC block will be upgraded to SHC
standards by providing a ten-bed ward, operating theatre and laboratory.
In Karnataka, 240 SHCs will be created and 78 in Kerala.
3.11      In Karnataka 22 of the 120 PHCs and 8 Taluk hospitals will be up-
graded to CHCs by adding a ten-bed ward, operating theatre and offices for
the additional posts of obstetrician and paediatrician. In Kerala, 9 of the
existing 39 PHCs will be upgraded to the equivalent of CHCs. Because of the
irregular and sparse distribution of the PHCs in the Kerala districts, and
the relative shortage of hospital facilities which provide family welfare
support services, 15 taluk level hospitals will also be extended to include
a ten-bed ward and operating theatre to provide additional family welfare
and MCH referral services.
3.12      The improved ratio of rural family welfare and MCH facilities to
population in the project districts which will result from the expansion of
facilities and manpower development is illustrated below:
Ratio of Referral Facilities (CHCs, PHCs and SHCs) and Subcenters
to Population in Karnataka and Kerala Project Districts
Karnataka              Kerala
Type of Facility                 1983        1989        1983       1989
Referral Facilities            1/85,000   1/31,000   1/155,000  1/61,000
Subcenters                     1/6,835    1/4,873    1/11,272   1/4,658



- 21 -
3.13      The number of sanctioned positions for medical officers is ade-
quate in each State, as are the training resources and supply of obstetri-
cians and paediatricians for posting to CHCs. To ensure community involve-
ment for subcenter services, VHGs and dais will have been selected and
trained for the districts in Karnataka before the project starts.  Because
of the extensive community organization which already exists in Kerala and
because of the high percentage of institutional deliveries in the State,
VHGs and dais will not be recruited.
3.14      The expansion of facilities will substantially enhance the avail-
ability of family welfare services. In order to make a major impact in the
reduction of fertility and infant mortality, however, specific aspects of
the existing strategies will be given priority. Whilst there has been good
progress with the popularization and acceptance of sterilization, little
progress has been made with temporary methods such as the IUD, oral contra-
ceptives and condoms. More attention to temporary methods is needed to
cater to couples who wish to delay first pregnancies and space second preg-
nancies. Sterilization is not appropriate for some some 35% of eligible
couples. In order to reduce infant mortality, services will concentrate on
the most common causes of infant and child mortality. For the newborn,
prematurity and neonatal tetanus rank high whilst diarrhoea and pneumonia
account for most of the mortality in infants and young children. The
strategy will focus on oral rehydration to control diarrhoea and specific
health education measures to raise the awareness of mothers of preventive
measures to be taken to lessen the risks of common colds in children
developing into pneumonia. Children who fail to thrive are clearly more
prone to develop disease and run a higher risk of dying.   Surveillance of
all infants and young children through periodic weighing and the use of
growth charts to record progress is essential to detect children who fail
to thrive. Once identified, these children will be examined in depth in
order to determine the causes of their failure to thrive.  If it was due to
inadequate breast-feeding or weaning practices, special nutrition education
sessions would be held with the mothers. If the problem was due to infec-
tion, proper medication and medical follow-up would be organized for the
children. In those cases in which the cause of the problem lies in insuf-
ficient caloric intake, the children would be referred to existing supple-
mentary feeding programs. A strategy paper for family welfare and MCH has
been developed (see Annex 2) and will form the basis for the in-service
training and reorientation of project staff.  It will also be used to guide
and monitor program implementation by the project coordinators (para. 3.49)
and thus help to reinforce positive managerial attitudes towards program
improvements (para. 2.22).



- 22 -
3.15      The strategy paper also contains sets of calculations showing the
numbers of acceptors by method needed to attain what are regarded as real-
istic levels of contraceptive prevalence by the end of the project.  In
Karnataka the level of prevalence for the six districts should increase
from about 24% in 1981-82 to 43% by the end of the project; in Kerala, the
figures are about 17% and 33% respectively.
Training
3.16      In Karnataka, 617 additional MPWFs will be needed to fill sanc-
tioned positions by the end of the project period.   The existing six MPWF
schools in the districts admit 40 students per year.  Four will be expand-
ed to admit 50 students annually. In addition, about 30% of the student
places at the 13 other schools in the State will be earmarked for the proj-
ect districts. By the end of the project the training capacity in the
project districts will be self sufficient. In Kerala, an additional 932
posts will need to be sanctioned for which, allowing for attrition, 1,649
MPWFs will have to be trained. The intake in the one school in the project
districts will be expanded to 50 students annually, and three additional
schools with the same capacity will be built. These three schools will
start functioning in rented buildings from November 1983.   In addition,
about 30% of student places in other schools in Kerala will be reserved
for the selected districts. The four MPWF schools in the project districts
will be able to meet future MPWF requirements by the end of the project
period.
3.17      There is an excess of MPWM workers in Karnataka but they have had
only in-service training in their new job functions. The project provides
for the formal 18 months training of new recruits to this cadre in four
schools (one of which is in the project districts) with 50 places annual-
ly. By the end of the project, about one-third of the sanctioned positions
will be filled by MPWMs who will have had formal training. The absorptive
capacity of the training institutions will not permit the acceleration of
training beyond this level, but over 90% of the sanctioned positions will
be filled by the end of the project period. In Kerala, three existing
schools will be converted to train MPWMs and four new schools will be built
in the project districts for this purpose. Thirty students would be en-
rolled annually in the existing school and fifty in each of the new
schools. It is not feasible to expand the training capacity further, but
by the end of the project 85% of the sanctioned positions will have been
filled and the new schools will have the capacity to fill outstanding re-
quirements and maintain the sanctioned levels within two years of project
completion.



- 23 -
3.18      The additional Health and Famriy Welfare Training Center (HVTC)
to be established at Gulbarga will be used to train 35 HAFs per year. With
the HAF Training Center at Hubli also training 35 HAFs per year, the ad&i-
tional requirements for HAFs (251) will be met in Karnataka in the project
period. The HFWTC at Gulbarga will be also used for integrated training of
various categories of rural health workers, and as a base for the full-time
faculty for the refresher training programs to be organized under the proj-
ect. In Kerala there are 107 sanctioned HAF positions, only 46 of which
are now filled. Sanctioned positions will be increased to 345, leaving a
shortfall of 299. To cope with this large shortfall, 75% of places at the
existing school at Trivandrum will be assigned to the project districts.
The HFWTC at Calicut will be reequipped to admit 35 HAF students every six
months.  Seventy-five percent of these places will also be assigned to the
project districts. The shortfall will have been eliminated by the end of
the project and thereafter district needs will be met by an allocation of
15% of student places at the two schools.
3.19      To provide the 40 HAMs needed to meet the requirements in
Karnataka of 486 sanctioned positions, the school at Hubli will commence
training in 1986 with an enrollment of 35 students every six months. By
the end of the project, all posts will have been filled and about one-third
will have had formal training. In Kerala, 147 new posts will be sanctioned
to meet the total of 345 required by 1989. To meet the actual shortfall of
164, health inspectors will be promoted initially to fill the gaps as for-
mal training courses are established at Alleppy Medical College for two
batches of 30 students annually.  By the end of the project, 90% of posi-
tions will have been filled.
3.20      Table 6 provides a summary of requirements for multipurpose
workers and health assistants and estimated increase in positions that:
will be filled by project year and the numbers required to be trained to
meet the manpower requirements.
3.21      The staffing pattern of a SHC includes the post of Community
Health Officer (CHO) whose functions are to assist in running the SHC and
supervise outreach activities. CHOs will be promoted from existing para-
medical cadres and posted after six months training. Karnataka proposes
to recruit and train 240 CHOs but the detail of their training program
remains to be developed. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that a curriculum for the six months training of CHOs will be furnished
to the Association for its review and comment no later than March 31, 1984
(para. 7.01(a)). The supply of pharmacists, X-ray technicians and nurses
are adequate to meet the additional posts required in both States.



- 24 -
3.22      In addition to support for basic training, the project provides
assistance for the retraining of all staff to upgrade professional skills,
broaden attitudes towards family planning methods, and ensure that the
program strategy is clearly understood.  As an essential preliminary, a six
week survey will be undertaken in each State to define more precisely sig-
nificant gaps in the skills, knowledge and practice of staff involved in
the delivery of family welfare services and to review patterns of service
delivery (see Annex 2). The survey will be carried out by a team, compris-
ing a physician, public health nurse, senior public health inspector, and
IEC specialist, chosen for their experience and competence. An assurance
has been obtained that each State shall by May 1, 1984: (i) undertake a
survey to identify any significant gaps in the skills, knowledge and prac-
tices of family welfare services as a basis for the reorientation and re-
training of staff in the project districts; and (ii) promptly furnish the
results of said survey to the Association for review and comments (para.
7.01(b)).  The information from the survey will be used inter alia to
develop curricula for retraining courses. An assurance has been obtained
that curricula and a timetable for the retraining of staff in project
districts will be furnished annually, no later than two months before the
start o'. each fiscal year, to the Association for its review and comments
(para. 7.01(c)).  It will also be necessary to provide for the retraining
of trainers and 3 three-week courses will be held in the first year of the
project for the teaching staff of the faculties of the basic training
institutions involved in the project; additionally, representatives from
similar institutions throughout each State will also be included.
3.23      The GOI program does not include provision for the regular, sys-
tematic retraining of staff. This project provides for the establishment of
a permanent team of instructors to organize and conduct retraining courses
for all levels of staff.  The permanent team of instructors, assisted by
part-time instructors drawn from staff selected from teaching institutions
and rural health facilities, will conduct week-long courses at CHCs and
PHCs. During the project period the program will be developed and extended
so that retraining will be available for each staff member every two years
in the project districts.
3.24      The project will focus on the need to improve the management
skills of PHC doctors (para. 2.2.6). To provide a more cohesive approach
to service delivery, both States will create a new grade of physicians
who will be in charge of PHCs (cr CHCs) and all medical and family wel-
fare services within a block. Management training will be focussed on
this cadre as well as officials at district and State levels. There is
no institution in Karnataka which can provide such training and the proj-
ect provides for the Population Centre in Bangalore, developed under the
first population project, to be expanded to include a training capability.
The original building is now too small even for ongoing activities and a
second storey, allowed for in the original structural design, will be add-
ed. A committee under the chairmanship of the Secretary for Health will
be established to determine training commitments and a curriculum. It will
draw on expertise available at institutions such as the Indian Institutes



- 25 -
of Management at Bangalore and Ahmedabad and the Indian Society of Health
Administration, Bangalore. Courses of 10 working days will be run by core
staff at the Population Centre drawing on locally available resource per-
sons.  About 200 physicians will be trained during the project period.  In
Kerala, the Institute of Administration and Government at Trivandrum has
already conducted some courses in health administration. This Institute
will be responsible for management training for about 100 CHC and PHC
doctors as well as district and State program administrators during the
project period. Provision is made for study tours for officials from both
States to visit institutes and States in which management training is being
conducted.
Mobility
3.25      In addition to extending and improving service coverage, the
project also addresses the problem of mobility which has a direct bearing
on supervision. Many of the vehicles are old, costly to maintain and un-
reliable. Of the 1,057 vehicles listed as being operated by the Director-
ate of Health Services in Karnataka, 35% are permanently unroadworthy.
In Karnataka, provision is made for 49 diesel pick-up trucks for PHCs to
replace those which have been condemned or are ten years old. To provide
adequate transport for referral cases, one ambulance will be provided for
each of the 30 CHCs. Motorcycles will be provided for the 240 medical
officers at SHCs who now have no transport and who will have supervisory
functions under the new management scheme. In Kerala, a four-wheel drive
diesel vehicle will be provided for each of the 9 CHCs and 14 ambulances
for the taluk hospital referral facilities. Because of difficult terrain
and climatic conditions, each SHC in Kerala will be provided with a four-
wheel drive diesel vehicle, instead of a motorcycle. The Kerala districts
are partly populated by tribal people practising shifting cultivation in
remote hilly areas, who cannot be effectively served from static health
facilities. For a selected district the project will provide a diesel four-
wheel drive vehicle and driver to be stationed at the nearest static facil-
ity and used to transport staff, equipment and supplies to the current
locations of these tribal people on a pilot basis.  If evaluation shows
that a vehicle is needed to provide cost-effective services compared with
alternative delivery systems, a further three vehicles will be made avail-
able.
Maintenance
3.26      There are inadequate facilities for the maintenance of vehicles
which further reduces mobility. In Karnataka, the only vehicle workshop is
at Bangalore 325 kms. from the boundary of the nearest project district and
750 kms. from the farthest boundary. The project will, therefore, provide



- 26 -
for the construction, equipping and staffing of two vehicle maintenance
workshops. Although both are in the project districts, one at Gulbarga
will serve northern Karnataka and one at Dharwar will serve the central
districts of the State.  In Kerala there are two vehicle workshops, one at
Trivandrum and one at Calicut leaving the central districts without ade-
quate facilities.  The project will, therefore, provide for the construc-
tion, equipping and staffing of a third workshop at Ernakulam to cover the
central districts (including the four project districts). It will also
provide additional equipment and staff for the other two workshops.
3.27      There are no facilities in Karnataka for the repair of medical
and IEC equipment and there is, therefore, considerablea wastage. The
project provides for the construction, equipment and staffing of two work-
shops, one in Gulbarga to serve the northern districts and one at Belgaum
for the central districts. Each workshop will have a four-wheeled vehicle
and one van for the collection and distribution of equipment. Similar fa-
cilities will be provided at Bangalore from State funds. The situation is
better in Kerala where there is a maintenance depot in Trivandrum with a
mobile workshop and two other mobile workshops based in Calicut and Cochin.
The mobile workshops can, however, only carry out limilted repairs of items
such as beds, refrigerators and autoclaves. The project will, therefore,
provide for the construction, equipping and staffing of a new State work-
shop in Trichur which will be able to service all equipment maintenance
needs in the northern and central districts of the State.  Vehicles will be
provided from State resources.
Demand Generation
3.28      Although surveys in Karnataka and Kerala show that about 90%
of the women aged 15-49 years are aware of family planning, only about 20%
in the project districts are currently protected by a modern contraceptive
method. In Karnataka, the desired family size is 3.6 children and about
65% of currently married, fecund women with two children (the desired pro-
gram norm) want more children. To achieve the contraceptive prevalence
objectives set for the national program will, therefore, require much
greater emphasis than hitherto on the need for demand generation.   In
turn, this will require more clcosely focussed IEC strategies which support
priority service interventions (para. 3.14) and which are addressed to
specific sections of the community. At present, IEC activities are by and
large carried out as routine government functions. The IEC organization
needs to be strengthened and given a greater professional standing than at
present.



- Z7 -
3.29      The overall objectives of this component for both States are to:
a.    build on the wide base of awareness of family welfare
that already exists and generate demand for family wel-
fare services;
b.    integrate family planning communication into the larger
context of community health and mother-child care;
c.    create a media setting that will help family welfare work-
ers to gain greater credibility and acceptance in the com-
munity;
d.    obtain recognition and support for the family welfare
program from other government departments and voluntary
agencies; and
e.    win the approval of social leaders and others for project
purposes and actions.
3.30      To meet these objectives, the project will provide for the
strengthening of the IEC organization in each State and for activities
which supplement the ongoing program, will make the most impact and can be
realistically implemented. It will also provide training in population
education for adult education workers, college teachers and students, and
women's club members. Maximum use will be made of existing resources. The
project does not provide for important IEC activities such as outdoor ad-
vertising and cultural shows for which budget provision is routinely made.
Provision is made for IEC "hardware" only when its use and maintenance can
be justified. IEC strategies will direct clear messages at specific target
groups using all media approaches - interpersonal communication, community
education and mass media - in a coordinated fashion. During negotiations,
an assurance was obtained that detailed annual IEC strategies would be
furnished to the Association for its review and comment no later than two
months before the start of each fiscal year (para. 7.01(d)).
Interpersonal Communication
3.31      Most of the interpersonal communication is carried out by MPWFs
and MPWMs at subcenter level who have had no training in communications.
The retraining courses described in para. 3.22 will provide for simple
training in IEC techniques. Other staff, including doctors, will receive
similar training to be able to provide knowledgeable support for subcenter
and IEC staff. The project makes provision for the replacement of IEC kits,
now old and outmoded, for subcenter staff. In addition to personal counsel-
ling, subcenter staff will assist BEEs in organizing and running OTCs
(para. 3.32) in their areas.



- 28 -
Community Education
3.32      Even with a full establishment of subcenter staff by the end of
the project period, each subcenter will be responsible for delivering
services to about 800 eligible couples, a considerable task which leaves
little time for personal counselling. It is, therefore, necessary to
support counselling with community education. The project will extend
the use of OTCs developed under the second project.  These are meetings
of small numbers of local leaders, formal and informal, teachers, womens'
representatives, private medical practitioners and representatives of other
government departments who are invited to share in a presentation of offi-
cial family welfare policies and programs, express their reactions, enlarge
their understanding and lend support.   In Karnataka, the project provides
for holding 6,400 meetings, at block, taluk and district levels, which will
cover some 125,000 people. In Kerala, about 4,000 OTCs and follow-up meet-
ings will be held. To support these OTCs, as well as group discussions
held at service facilities, the project provides for the replacement of
existing IEC kits which are now old and outmoded.  IEC kits will be de-
signed, tested and provided for district, taluk and block level workers,
and for SHC workers.
3.33      Kerala has a strong system of local government and community or-
ganizations which will be used to promote demand generation. The project
will make use of existing organizations such as Mahilasamajam (Women's
clubs) which are village groups of 50-75 women representing all communi-
ties who gather for activities which include tailoring, gardening, radio-
listening clubs, rice grinding, and group discussions. They form the basis
of Family Education Centers (FECs) which were started in 1980 by the direc-
torate of health services as a means of organizing family welfare educa-
tion. One hundred were established initially and have proved successful.
The project makes provision for the recruitment and training of 9,750 wom-
en to be selected as FEC organizers, and for IEC materials. The FECs will
also provide the location for OTCs and follow-up meetings. There is also
a unique systems of youth libraries in Kerala, run by voluntary workers,
which enable members for a small fee to borrow from mdest collections of
books. The libraries typically have a reading room and are a focus for
discussion groups. The project makes provision for books on population and
family welfare subjects for 1,000 of these libraries. Support will be ini-
tially concentrated on the project districts and then be developed through-
out the State.
3.34      To support community education, folders and posters will be pro-
duced for use at OTCs, service facilities and community centers. They will
feature topics such as delaying age at marriage, spacing pregnancies, indi-
vidual contraceptive methods, oral rehydration and the benefits of immuni-
zation. The material will be printed departmentally and the project makes



- 29 -
provision only for art work and paper costs. Both States have offset press-
es, provided with Swedish aid in the early 1970s, which are in need of re-
pair. The project makes provision for essential repairs and for addition-
al staff, furniture and equipment to improve the efficiency of their opera-
tions.
3.35      In Karnataka, all BEEs have slide-cum-filmstrip projectors, and
new material specific to campaign subjects will be produced. In Kerala, a
filmstrip projector and material will be provided for each of the 39 PHCs.
Kerala has had satisfactory experience with the use of 8 mm. projectors,
and the strong community organization and relatively short distances in-
volved which minimize possible damage justify an extension to the 39 PHCs
in the project districts.
3.36      The second population project has seen the successful prepara-
tion of IEC materials at district level in Andhra Pradesh prepared in res-
ponse to local issues and developments. This project makes provision for
similar activities in both States.
3.37      In order to promote community participation and maintain regular
contacts between family welfare staff and community leaders, the project
makes provision for the establishment of family welfare committees at sub-
center, block and district levels. The committees will assist in promoting
and organizing IEC strategies and activities in support of service delivery
centers. Provision is also made for workshops and seminars to enlist the
creative assistance of writers, journalists, film directors and producers
in promoting IEC work.
Mass Media
3.38      In order to lend credibility to interpersonal and group communi-
cations, mass media will be used to reinforce campaign subjects and spread
awareness of new information such as that relating to temporary contracep-
tive methods and oral rehydration. The Karnataka districts are served by
230 cinemas, or one to every 35 villages, with a total seating capacity of
68,000. At a conservative estimate, 300,000 adults in the reproductive age
groups (14%) visit cinemas regularly. The four districts in Kerala are
served by 310 cinemas visited by an estimated 400,000 adults every two
weeks. The cinema is, therefore, an important medium in both areas through
which key IEC themes and messages can be transmitted and frequently rein-
forced. The project makes provision for the production, printing and
screening of 17 films for Karnataka and 7 for Kerala. Short five-minute
films will be produced mainly by private production companies. They will
be reduced to 16 mm. and 8 mm. for community education use also. Because
of the popularity of films, provision is also made for incentives to be



- 30 -
paid to leading feature film producers to incorporate family welfare themes
in their scenarios.  Criteria based on time, dialogue or both would be es-
tablished to determine which films qualify for incentive payments. CirQaMs
are required by law to show government slides, and provision is made
the production of glass slides.
3.39      In the project distri,-ts in Karnataka there are 184,000 radio
sets or one for every 11 households, chiefly those of community leaders and
others who could play a role in social change. All India Radio (AIR) in
Bangalore originates daily half-hour programs that are broadcast State-wide
and relayed by stations in the project districts at Gulbarga and Dharwar.
The programs are limited by a lack of suitable material and recording faci-
lities. The project, therefore, makes provision for drama scripts and
songs to be performed and recorded at private studios in Bangalore and
given official air-time. The 220,000 radios (or one for every 4 house-
holds) in the Kerala project districts are well served by AIR stations at
Alleppey, Trichur and Calicut. In addition to providing material for radio
programs, the directorates of health, community development and social wel-
fare have recently agreed to organize radio listening clubs. The project
provides for the production of radio talks, dramas and songs on family wel-
fare themes.
IEC Organization and Staffing
3.40      To be able to devise and implement successful strategies, the IEC
organization in each State needs to be strengthened in terms both of qual-
ity and numbers. In both States, IEC activities will be directed by a Joint
Director. For both posts, a person with wide professional skills will be
recruited. The State level organization in Karnataka will be strengthened
by the addition of 16 posts and in Kerala by 11 posts. At divisional level
in Karnataka, a divisional HEO will be appointed to work with the Joint
Director of Health and improve liaison between State level IEC officials
and the districts. A further six deputy HEOs will be appointed in Karnataka
to provide one for each taluk. Working in conjunction with the assistant
district medical officers, they will be the major link with voluntary orga-
nizations, other government departments, religious groups and local govern-
ment organizations. In Kerala, district and block level staff are adequate.
To support the regular IEC staff, each State will appoint a duly qualified
IEC consultant for a total of about 16 man-months (six man-months during
the pre-project period and two man-months in each project year). These
consultants will help with the introduction of new ideas and the formula-
tion of strategies. An assurance has been obtained that by May 1, 1984,
each of the States shall appoint: (i) a duly qualified IEC specialist with
the rank of Joint Director to direct IEC activities under the project; and
(ii) a duly qualified IEC consultant to assist with implementation of the
said activities (para. 7.01(e)).
3.41      Having strengthened staffing and redefined responsibilities and
job functions, provision is made for the retraining of all IEC staff. Two
types of training are required.  For State and district level staff, tech-
nical and planning skills need to be upgraded. Taluk and block level staff



- 31 -
require retraining in how to handle groups of people and deliver program-
med information to support the activities of family welfare workers. In
the second project, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have used the staff
and facilities of the Gandhigram Institute for training with good results.
These training programs, which comprise theoretical training at the Insti-
tute and practical training in the project districts, will be adapted for
use in Karnataka and Kerala. Other institutions which will be used include
the Indian Institute of Mass Communication in New Delhi.
3.42      The additional staff will need support in terms of vehicles, fur-
niture and a limited amount of equipment.  The project provides for 3 staff
vehicles and 18 vans for deputy HEOs which will be used for IEC activities
at taluk and block levels in Karnataka. No transport is needed in Kerala.
Population Education
3.43      The project makes provision in both States for the introduction
of population education for college students, youth groups and opinion
leaders. It is complementary to the UNFPA-funded national population edu-
cation project which is concerned with primary and secondary schools. Ac-
tivities under this component also complement IEC activities and are direc-
ted at audiences who will shortly play an important part in formulating
community opinions. They will be implemented State-wide.
3.44      In Karnataka, population education activities will be the respon-
sibility of the State Population Education Center (SPEC) in the office of
the Director of Educational Research and Training. Regional population
education centers (RPEC) will be established at Dharwar and Gulbarga col-
leges of education and district population education centers (DPEC) at one
teacher training college in each of the districts. Key persons includLing
principals and lecturers of colleges preparing students for B.Ed. degrees
and teacher training institutes (a total of 900) will be trained at the
SPEC, Bangalore, to develop the RPECs and DPECs. District level officers
from the health, social welfare and education departments, voluntary orga-
nizations, and colleges (a total of 350) will be given two-day orientation
courses at SPEC. At each of the RPECs a total of 1,100 educators, health
workers, and extension officers will be trained in 22 programs. A further
500 block level staff from health, education and agricultural departments
will also be trained in 10 programs. At DPECs, a total of 10,000 extension
workers from the project areas will be given two day training. In addition
all students in the 12 degree and 12 junior colleges in the project dis-
tricts will be exposed to a series of 16 lectures; this program will cover
about 5,000 students annually. To support these training programs, provi-
sion is made for the production of training materials, population education
kits and manuals and source books for training staff.



- 32 -
3.45      In Kerala, the directorate of college education will be given
responsibility for implementing population education in the State.  Close
liaison will be maintained with the directorate of health.  About 100 col-
leges will be covered and some 200,000 students given 12 lectures each on
population education. Key persons from each college would be given train-
ing to deliver the lectures.  The National Social Service (NSS) scheme has
units in each college which organize social work in villages undertaken by
students. Once trained, the students will support family welfare activi-
ties during their social work. The training will be coordinated by the
Regional NSS coordinators in Calicut and Trivandrum Universities. The
Kerala Association for Non-FormaL Education and Development (KANFED) is a
voluntary organization which receives GOI and State assistance. The
project will reinforce and expand population education work which KANFED
is carrying out in its literacy and continuing education centres through-
out the State. KANFED will train some 5,000 adult education workers dur-
ing the project and the outreach is expected to cover some 200,000 people.
The mahilasamajams, which will be involved in FECs (para. 3.33), will also
be covered in the population education component. The coordinator for wom-
en's programs in the State Development Department will organize special
camps which are expected to reach over 100,000 women during the project
period.   The project makes provision for the production of materials,
posters, illustrated booklets, and student reading books.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Operat'ional Research
3.46      The project will strengthen the capacity of each State to monitor
and evaluate program performance along the lines developed under the first
and second projects. Both States presently use the old methods to collect
performance statistics which are cumbersome and time-consuming. The first
project developed a MIES which provides accurate information quickly to
program managers, who can then make use of it to monitor performance and
provide their subordinates with appropriate feedback. In previous proj-
ects, the MIES was confined to project districts; in this project it will
be implemented State-wide in phases starting with the project districts.
Once this is achieved, both States will have the capability of targetting
performance in a more realistic way than is presently possible. Although
the subjective element of targetting is always considerable, with an effec-
tive MIES it will be possible by the end of the project to evaluate the
realism of GOI targets and set St:ate targets which can be related more
closely to the overall objectives set by the GOI for State programs. It
will be possible to demonstrate that a bottom-up approach provides a better
perspective for targetting than l:he current system. The project makes
provision in both States for printing forms, for equipment at State and
district levels, and for evaluation and analysis.



- 33 -
3.47      To evaluate improvements in performance, the project makes provi-
sion for sample surveys in the project districts.  One of the major prob-
lems of the program is a shortage of critical information, particularly
demographic parameters, at district level on which monitoring and evalua-
tion can be based. Three surveys - baseline, mid-term, and final - will be
taken to measure demographic change, health status, and attitudes to family
planning and health services. Baseline surveys have been completed in the
second project and in Uttar Pradesh the project management has derived use-
ful policy and program implications from its analysis of the data. The in-
formation will also be used to refine the project's performance indicators
which have been set out in the strategy paper (para. 3.14) and for a final
project evaluation. In Karnataka, the Population Centre will be respon-
sible for conducting sample surveys. The Joint Director (Statistics) in
the Directorate of Health will be responsible in Kerala with assistance
from the Department of Economics and Statistics for field work and from the
Demographic Training and Research Center for tabulation and analysis.
3.48      Operational research is one of the primary means of monitoring,
evaluating and supporting the implementation of what is, in fact, a complex
program. It serves to diagnose current problems and also to start new ap-
proaches which could be more effective than existing approaches. Opera-
tional research was introduced in the first project when considerable work
was done primarily by Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, and the
Administrative Staff College of India, Hyderabad. Provision was also made
in the second project and several studies to test new approaches are on-
going. Provision for operational research studies is also made in this
project. Funds will be held by project coordinators and research schemes
contracted to institutions such as the Population Centre and the Indian
Institute of Management, Bangalore, the Department of Economics and Statis-
tics, Trivandrum, and the two State Demographic Training and Research
Institutes at Dharwar and Trivandrum respectively. A block near Bangalore
which was covered in the first project is being studied as a pre-project
activity to analyze in detail staff functions and performance and introduce
the activities given priority in the project's strategy paper.
3.49      In order to carry out these monitoring and research activities
more effectively, the project makes provision for strengthening the statis-
tical capability of each State. The Population Centre in Bangalore which
is a State organization under the direct control of the Secretary Health,
will play an important role in project monitoring and evaluation. Because
Df the considerable distance between Bangalore and the project districts
(over 350 kms), a field unit will be opened in Gulbarga headed by an Assis-
tant Director and comprising one research officer and four assistants. To
strengthen the statistical staff in Karnataka, provision is made for a
statistician, junior statistical assistant and evaluation officer in each



- 34 -
of the districts, a statistical assistant at taluk level and junior statis-
tical assistant at block level. In Kerala amalgamation of the various
statistical units within the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare has
already been initiated. The project will make provision for the salaries
and allowances of additional staff needed to ensure the timely collection
analysis and feedback of statistical information relating to family welfare
performance; the State proposes to strengthen staff posts dealing with med-
ical college and district hospitals. In addition to the new post of Joint
Director, provision is made for a small research and evaluation unit, under
an Assistant Director as well as a statistical officer and supporting staff
at district level.
Project Management
3.50      Project coordination in each State will be exercised by an Addi-
tional Secretary in the Secretary of Health's office supported by appro-
priate staff.  The post of project officer at district level has proved
very useful in the second project; these officers, drawn from the revenue
cadre, have expedited site selection and acquisition. When these functions
have been completed, they will be changed for medical officers to assist
with program implementation. Program activities, including strategy imple-
mentation, staffing, training, and IEC activities will be the responsibil-
ity of the Departments of Health and Family Welfare, suitably strengthened
to cope with expanded program activities on a permanent basis and not mere-
ly supplemented by temporary project positions.  Provision is made for es-
sential staff salaries, furniture, equipment and vehicles for project man-
agement.  To ensure that the project's objectives are clearly understood,
each State will hold a project launch workshop and a series of short work-
shops for all staff. The strategy paper will be used as the basis for
presentations at these workshops.
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT
A. Costs
4.01      The total estimated cost of the project is US$123.5 million
equivalent, of which US$73.1 million is for Karnataka and US$50.4 million
is for Kerala. The direct foreign exchange component is negligible. The
indirect foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$12.3 million,
or about 10% of total project costs. Taxes included in total costs are



- 35 -
estimated at about US$7.5 million.  Capital costs for construction, furni-
ture, equipment and vehicles account for US$68.6 million, or 70.5% of base
costs. Incremental operational and maintenance costs total US$28.7 million,
or 29.5% of base costs. The cost estimates by expenditure categories are
detailed in Tables 7, 8 and 9 and summarized in the following table.
INDIA : PROJECT OOSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(In Millions)
Rupees                                 US$                       % of            x of
Local   Foreign    Total            Local   Foreign    Total              Foreign         Total
Exchange        Base Cost
I.     Capital Costs, Base
Civil Works                       468.3       57.3      525.6          48.0        5.9       53.9            10.9            55.4
Furniture, Equipment &
Vehicles                        128.6       15.0      143.6          13.2        1.5       14.7            10.2            15.1
Subtotal, Capital Costs           596.9       72.3      669.2          61.2        7.4       68.6            10.8            70.5
II.    Incremental Recurrent Costs
Salaries                          177.2        0.0      177.2          18.2        0.0       18.2             0.0            18.7
Training and Orientation
Costs, IEC Materials, and
Maintenance Costs                81.7       21.2      102.9           8.4        2.1       10.5            20.0            10.8
Subtotal, Incremental
Recurrent Costs                 258.9       21.2      280.1         26.6         2.1       28.7             7.3           29.5
Subtotal, Base Costs              855.8       93.5      949.3          87.8        9.5       97.3             9.8           100.0
III.  Contingencies
Physical                           28.1         3.5      31.6           2.9        0.3        3.2            10.0             3.3
Price                             200.2       23.2      223.4          20.5        2.5       23.0            10.9            23.5
Subtotal, Contingencies           228.3       26.7      255.0          23.4        2.8       26.2            10.7            25.8
TOTAL                           1,084.1      120.2   1,204.3          111.2       12.3      123.5            10.0



- 36 -
4.02               Project costs by functional category are shown in the following
table. The largest share of project funds - 82.8% of base costs - is allo-
cated to the improvement of the delivery of basic health and family welfare
services, including the necessary training components. A further 6.6% is
for demand generation activil:ies, 2.8% for research and evaluation, and
7.8% for project management.
INDIA : PROJECT COSTS BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY
(In Millions)
Rupees                                  US$                       % of             X of
Local    Foreign    Total             Local    Foreign    Total             Foreign          Total
Exchange        Base Cost
Base Costs
Service Delivery                          705.0       81.9       786.9          72.3         8.3       80.6             10.3            82.8
Demand Generation                          56.5         5.6       62.1           5.8         0.6        6.4             10.0             6.6
(a) IEC                                (47.7)       (4.9)    (52.6)          (4.9)       (0.5)      (5.4)           (10.0)           (5.5)
(b) Population Education               ( 8.8)       (0.7)    ( 9.5)          (0.9)       (0.1)      (1.0)           (10.0)           (1.1)
Research and Evaluation                    25.3         1.1       26.4           2.6         0.1        2.7              3.7             2.8
Project Management                         68.9         5.0       73.9           7.1         0.5        7.6              6.6             7.8
Subtotal, Base Costs                   855.7        93.6      949.3          87.8         9.5       97.3              9.8           100.0
Contingencies
Physical                                   28.1         3.5       31.6           2.9         0.3        3.2             10.0             3.3
Price                                    200.2        23.2      223.4           20.5         2.5       23.0            10.9             23.6
Subtotal,  Contingencies               228.3        26.7      255.0          23.4         2.8       26.2             10.7            26.9
TOTAL                                   1,084.1        120.2   1,204.3          111.2        12.3      123.5             10.0



- 37 -
4.03      The base costs of construction and furniture are based on esti-
mates derived from prices current in October 1983, and experience with
similar construction programs under the first and second projects. Cost
estimates for equipment and vehicles are also based on October 1983 price
quotations. Salaries, allowances, stipends and vehicle operating costs are
based on standard government scales as of October 1983. Consultant costs
are based on a cost per man-month of Rs.10,000 (about US$1,000), inclusive
of all expenses.
4.04      The contingency allowance of US$26.2 million (21.2% of total
project costs) includes: (a) physical contingencies for unforeseen factors
estimated at 5% of the base cost of civil works, furniture and equipment;
and (b) price contingencies averaging 22.9% of base costs and physical con-
tingencies. Price contingencies for local costs were calculated on the as-
sumption of a 7% annual inflation rate in FYs 1983-84 and 1984-85, 8% in
1985-86 and 1986-87, and 6% annually afterwards. Price contingencies for
the foreign exchange component were calculated on the assumption of a 4.8%
annual inflation rate in FY 1983-84, 9.5% in 1984-85, 9.1% in 1985-86, 7.5%
in 1986-87, and 6.0% annually afterwards.
B. Financing
4.05      The total project cost (US$123.5 million) would be partially fi-
nanced by the proposed IDA credit of SDR 66.3 million (US$70 million equiv-
alent), or about 60% of total project costs net of taxes. The balance of
US$53.5 million (including US$7.5 million of estimated taxes) will be con-
tributed by the GOI and the two State governments. The project would pro-
vide retroactive financing of up to US$700,000 for expenditures incurred
after July 1, 1983, in connection with essential activities to be carried
out in the pre-project FY 1983-84.
Financial Feasibility
4.06      The bulk of project costs during the project period (FY 1984/85
to FY 1988/89) in both States will be borne by the Central Government.
As a percentage of total Central Government expenditures in the health
and family welfare sector, project costs would be negligible; hence, the
question of financial feasibility during project implementation does not
arise. After project completion, however, most project-related costs in
FY 1989/90 and beyond will have to be met by the two States from their non-
Plan budgets. These costs will not be negligible relative to the non-Plan



- 38 -
allocation of the respective State directorates of health and family wel-
fare. In FY 1989/90, the first year after project completion, project-
related costs will be about Rs.32 million in each of the two States, at FY
1982/83 prices.  To assess the probable impact of these costs on the two
departmental budgets, it is necessary to project the likely real growth of
these budgets to FY 1989/90.
4.07      To project Karnataka's Department of Health and Family Welfare
budget, the following assumptions were made: (a) revenue receipts originat-
ing in the Central Government will grow annually at the rate forecasted for
the all-India gross domestic product, i.e., 5%; (b) revenue receipts that
are State-specific will grow at the same rate as the State domestic prod-
uct, assumed to grow over the projection period at the long-run historical
annual rate of 3.5%; (c) aggregate State disbursements will equal aggre-
gate receipts; and (d) Department of Health and Family Welfare expendi-
tures will retain their FY 1982/83 share of aggregate State disbursements,
i.e., 4.5%.   Under these assumptions, the increase in the Department of
Health and Family Welfare's non-Plan budget from FY 1988/89 to FY 1989/90
would be Rs.24 million, if the Plan and non-Plan shares remained constant
at their FY 1982/83 levels.   Since project-related costs which need to be
switched from Plan to non-Plan budget at the completion of the project
would be about Rs.32 million, it follows that these costs could be absorbed
into the Department of Health and Family Welfare's non-Plan FY 1989/90
budget, provided that the share of non-Plan expenditures would be increas-
ed slightly. In fact, the change in Plan and non-Plan shares would need to
be somewhat more pronounced than indicated by the figures above, because
there will be other, non-project developmental Department of Health and
Family Welfare activities completed during FY 1988/89 whose recurrent costs
will also have to be switched to the non-Plan budget in 1989/90. However,
since expected non-project developmental activities of Karnataka's Depart-
ment of Health and Family Welfare during the projection period would be
highly divisible in nature, the pace of their implementation could be
managed so as to minimize their impact on the FY 1989/90 non-Plan budget.
Thus under the above assumptions the project would be financially feasible
for Karnataka in the sense that project-related costs would be absorbable
into the State Department of Hlealth and Family Welfare's budget after proj-
ect completion, but some increase in the share of non-Plan expenditures may
be initially required. Similar conclusions can be drawn for Kerala.
C.   Procurement
4.08      Contracts for civil works, including the construction of 1,261
subcenters, the extension and rehabilitation of 174 taluk hospitals, CHCs
and PHCs and 318 SHCs, as well as the construction of 3 workshops, would be



- 39 -
small and widely dispersed in time and place; they would not be suitable
for International Competitive Bidding procedures. These contracts would,
therefore, be let through the competitive bidding procedures of the States
which are acceptable to the Association. To expedite the acceptance of
tenders for contracts valued at Rs.500,000 or more which are 12% in excess
of the approved estimates, special subcommittees of the Project Steering
Committee (para. 5.02) will meet at least every three weeks to approve such
tenders. Difficulties have been experienced in previous projects in retain-
ing contractors to work on small isolated buildings and some of the civil
works, not more than 30% of the total, would be carried out departmentally
under the supervision of the project construction units.
4.09      Contracts for furniture and vehicles will be let through the
competitive bidding procedures of the States, which are acceptable to the
Association. Because of difficulties in transport and the need to use
local timber suited to the climate, foreign firms are unlikely to be in-
terested in bidding for furniture. The same is true of vehicles, because
of the need to provide for adequate maintenance and after sales service.
All the furniture and types of vehicles required are available from local
manufacturers. Contracts for the purchase of furniture estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$25,000 each may be awarded on the basis of
prudent shopping, with solicitation of price quotations from at least three
suppliers, provided the aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed
the equivalent of US$250,000 in each State.
4.10      The bulk of the equipment in the project (by value) is made up of
a large number of items whose individual values (unit cost times total num-
ber of units required) are very small. Therefore, the practicality of pack-
aging the equipment in lots large enough to attract foreign suppliers is
limited, and a combination of International Competitive Bidding and local
procurement procedures will be used.  Contracts for the purchase of equip-
ment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more each will be
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. Contracts for
the purchase of equipment below US$100,000 equivalent each, but in aggre-
gate not exceeding US$2,000,000 in each State, may be awarded on the basis
of the competitive bidding procedures of the States, which are acceptable
to the Association. Contracts for the purchase of equipment below US$25,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping, with soli-
citation of price quotations from at least three suppliers, provided the
aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed the equivalent of
US$500,000 in each State.



- 4U -
4.11      For equipment procured under International Competitive Bidding,
preference may be accorded at GOIs request to local manufacturers of
equipment at 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods, or the amount of
customs duty and other import taxes levied on a non-exempt importer, which-
ever is lower.
D. Disbursements
4.12      Disbursements under the Credit would cover: (a) 60% of expendi-
tures for civil works (US$40.0 million); (b) for equipment, 100% of foreign
or ex-factory expenditures, or 70% of local expenditures (US$8.5 million);
(c) 60% of expenditures for furniture and vehicles (US$4.5 million); (d)
40% of staff salaries (US$8.0 million); (e) 40% of training and consultant
expenditures (US$1.5 million); and (f) 40% of other operating and mainten-
ance costs (US$3.5 million). An amount of US$4.0 million would be unallo-
cated. The project includes US$0.7 million of retroactive financing for
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1983, for establishing constructions
units, initiating training actLvities, and setting up baseline surveys and
the MIES.   A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 10.  It
is based on the actual programtming of activities adjusted by comparison
with disbursement profiles for the sector, India, and the first and second
population projects. The finaL disbursements of this credit would be made
by March 31, 1990, twelve months after project completion.
4.13      As in previous population projects, all disbursements would be
made against certified statements of expenditure to be supplied by the
MOHFW. Supporting documents would be retained by GOI for inspection by IDA
during the course of project review missions.
E.   Accounts and Audit
4.14      The project would be subject to normal GOI and State accounting
and auditing procedures which are considered satisfactory to IDA. Each
State project coordinator would maintain separate project accounts; the
project makes provision for the necessary staff and equipment. Project
accounts would be inspected regularly by special area projects accounts
staff in the MOHFW, New Delhi, and a quarterly statement of expenditures
provided to IDA. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that
each of the States will maintain separate project records and accounts and
furnish to the Association copies of their project accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and authen-
ticity by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association, not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 7.01(f)).



- 41 -
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management
5.01      A division of the GOI's MOHFW is responsible for coordinating
the implementation of all area projects including those assisted by the
IDA. Assistant Commissioners are assigned to specific projects and travel
frequently to the States to monitor implementation. In addition, GOI rep-
resentatives attend Governing Board and Steering Committee meetings in each
State. These arrangements have proved satisfactory in previous projects.
5.02      The committee system established in the first two projects has
worked well in directing a high degree of attention to project objectives,
removing bottlenecks, and ensuring the effective coordination of the va-
rious project activities. Each State will have a Governing Board compris-
ing senior State officials such as the Development Commissioner, the Sec-
retaries of Health, Education, Public Works and Finance, and senior project
staff, as well as GOI representatives. It will be chaired in both States
by the Chief Secretary. Governing Boards will meet every quarter to review
progress, suggest ways and means of improvIng program performance and en-
sure adequate inter-departmental coordination. In both States, the deci-
sions of the Governing Board will be accepted as decisions of the State
and will not be subject to further review by departmental officials. For
routine implementation each State will also have a Steering Committee
chaired, in both States, by the Health Secretary. Meeting monthly, this
committee will provide progress reports to the respective Governing Board
and ensure the technical coordination of project activities. Special im-
plementation committees will also be established at divisional (Karnataka
only) and district level; in addition to government officers, the latter
will also include representatives of voluntary organizations.
5.03      As stated in para. 3.50, project management will be vested in a
project coordinator in each State of the rank of Additional Secretary.
Simplified organograms of the project organization are given in Charts 1
and 2 for Karnataka and Kerala respectively. The Additional Secretaries
will be responsible for ensuring coordination between the PWD (and KHRWS
in Kerala) which will carry out the civil works, the Departments of Educa-
tion, responsible for population education, and the Departments of Health
and Family Welfare, responsible for staffing, training, IEC, monitoring and
evaluation, operational research and procurement of vehicles, furniture and
equipment. This organizational arrangement preserves the customary direc-
tion of the flow of orders and instructions as well as providing for the
necessary liaison and coordination. Implementation schedules are in Tables
11 and 12 and Chart 3.



- 42 -
Implementation of Civil Works
5.04      In Karnataka, the Chief Engineer of the PWD will be responsible
for the implementation of civil works. For this purpose, the existing or-
ganization will be strengthened fcr the project period. In Bangalore, an
Assistant Executive Engineer will be in overall charge and the State archi-
tect's office will be strengthened by 21 posts to provide working drawings,
detail and site plans, and also survey the buildings which require exten-
sion and renovation. Four existing circle offices at Belgaum, Dharwar,
Bijapur and Gulbarga will each be provided with two additional staff
posts. Each district will have a special project construction office
with three sub-offices at taluk level. The district offices will need
nine staff posts and taluk offices seven posts.  Including supporting
staff, additional posts for the four years required for construction
total 340. No problems are anticipated with the recruitment of staff.
5.05      Responsibility for construction in Kerala will be taken by the
KHRWS established in 1973 to construct pay-wards for hospitals.  A chari-
table, non-profit organization, the KHRWS is fully owned by the State
Government and has staff on secondment from the PWD with which it is
closely linked.  For the project, a superintending engineer will be ap-
pointed to head a central unit with 13 staff positions. District units
will be established, each headed by a divisional engineer with 28 staff
positions. Architectural work will be undertaken by the State architect's
department from which staff will be seconded to the KHRWS central unit.
Including supporting staff, 195 additional posts will be required for which
no recruitment problems are anticipated.
5.06      Criteria for location of project health facilities to be con-
structed or upgraded have been agreed (see Annex 4). A mapping exercise is
under way in order to determine locations of project facilities. For new
facilities, a site selection and acquisition committee will be formed in
each district during the pre-project period, chaired by the district col-
lector. It is expected that for 25% of all project subcenters and staff
quarters, sites will be acquired, surveyed, and the corresponding site
plans produced by March 1984. Equipment and furniture lists and schedule
of accommodation for all buildings have been agreed. Preliminary type de-
signs for all buildings have been prepared by the respective State archi-
tect's office and are now in the process of being finalized in accordance
with discussions held during appraisal. This work is expected to be com-
pleted by the end of December 1983.



- 43 -
B. Monitoring and Reporting
5.07      The project cordinator will prepare monthly progress reports for
the state steering committee. Based on these reports, which will cover
construction, training, staffing, implementation of IEC activities, project
expenditures, monitoring and evaluation activities, and performance indi-
cators, the project coordinator will prepare a quarterly report for trans-
mittal to the GOI and IDA within two months after each quarter. Perfor-
mance indicators will follow those set out in Annex 3. In the second proj-
ect, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have completed a useful mid-term re-
view of project implementation progress. Assurances have been obtained
that the States shall each undertake a mid-term review of the progress of
each component of the project and of the performance of the family welfare
program in the selected districts, make available not later than September
30, 1986, the results of such review to the Association for comments, and
undertake any necessary actions as agreed with the Association (para.
7.01 (g)).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The project will substantially expand improved family planning
and MCH services to a rural population projected to be 18 million by the
end of the project period, or about one-third of the combined populations
of Karnataka and Kerala at that time. By concentrating on high priority
service interventions and developing a demand generation component, the
project is expected to increase the levels of contraceptive prevalence in
the Karnataka project districts from about 24% at present to about 43% by
the end of the project. In Kerala, the corresponding increase would be
from 17% to 33%. Regarding MCH services, it is expected that, as a result
of the project, deliveries attended by trained personnel in the project
districts will increase from 20% to 75% in Karnataka and from 30% to 75% in
Kerala; immunization coverage for children aged 1-5 will increase from
about 10% to 50% in both States; and infant mortality will be reduced from
90 per thousand to 80 per thousand in Karnataka and from 70 per thousand to
60 per thousand in Kerala.
6.02      Although the project concentrates on service improvements in se-
lected districts, it will also have State-wide benefits. An organization
to introduce population education for colleges and adult education move-
ments will be established State-wide. Some 225,000 potential opinion lead-
ers will be reached. An effective MIES will be introduced in all districts



- 44 -
of the two project States, which will provide prompt and accurate informa-
tion to program managers, who will then be able to make use of it to moni-
tor performance and provide their subordinates with appropriate feedback.
The MIES will also provide a better basis for the setting of realistic fam-
ily planning acceptor targets. The provision of vehicle and equipment main-
tenance facilities will have an impact beyond the selected districts in im-
proving the functioning of facilities and reducing wastage.
6.03      For the GOI program overall, the project will provide important
experience in the management of the health system which is planned to be
fully implemented by the year 2000. The IEC component will establish more
systematic approaches to demand generation which will be replicable in
other districts and States when adapted to local circumstances.
Risks
6.04      Risks attendant on the implementation of project activities are
seen as minimal in view of the good administrative record of both States
and the previous experience of Karnataka with the first population project.
The primary difficulty is seen in changing the attitudes of program staff
to accept the essential elements of the GOI's program strategy. Use of the
strategy paper for extensive project orientation and retraining is designed
to overcome this problem. This is essential if the second major difficulty
- that of persuading those eligible couples that are not now making use of
family planning and MCH services to avail themselves of such services in
order to improve the health of their children and curtail the size of their
families - is to be overcome. With increased attention being paid to de-
mand generation, the raising of contraceptive prevalence to the projected
levels although difficult should be attainable. The difficulty of finding
effective, professional IEC managers will be met by using local consultants
of proven capability to support regular IEC staff.
VII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from
the Government:
a.    a curriculum for a six-month training course for Community
Health Officers (CHOs) will be furnished to the Associa-
tion for its review and comment no later than March 31, 1984
(para. 3.21);



- 45 -
b.    each State shall by May 1, 1984, (i) undertake a survey to
identify any significant gaps in the skills, knowledge
and practices of family welfare services as a basis for
the reorientation and retraining of staff in the project
districts; and (ii) promptly furnish the results of said
survey to the Association for review and comments (para.
3.22);
c.    curricula and a timetable for the retraining of staff in
project districts will be furnished annually, no later
than two months before the start of each fiscal year to
the Association for its review and comments (para 3.22);
d.    detailed IEC strategies will be furnished to the Associa-
tion for its review and comments no later than two months
before the start of each fiscal year (para. 3.30);
e.    by May 1, 1984, each of the States shall appoint (i) a duly
qualified IEC specialist with the rank of Joint Director to
direct IEC activities under the project; and (ii) a duly
qualified IEC consultant to assist with implementation of
the said activities (para. 3.40);
f.    each of the States will maintain separate project records
and accounts and furnish to the Association copies of their
project accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year, certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association, not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.14);
and
g.    the States will each undertake a mid-term review of
the progress of each component of the project and of
the performance of the family welfare program in the
selected districts, make available not later than
September 30, 1986, the results of such review to
the Association for comments, and undertake any neces-
sary actions as agreed with the Association (para. 5.07).
7.02      Subject to the above assurances and conditions being met, it is
recommended that the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of SDR 66.3 million (US$70 million equivalent) on standard
terms to the Government of India.



-46-                                                               ANNEX
INDIA: TlHIRD POPULATION PROJECr
ScHEmATIC REPRESENrATIoN CN BLoCK-LEVEL HEALTH SERVICES ?mMEL To E    D       E  BY Te YE   2000 _
BLOK" A                                                                       BLOCK "B"
H/~~~~~~ ~~~ r  I   F                                                                                FE CC
SEC'S SHCSH  
sL1vCK "C "                                                                  blK 'D "
Note: The arrows represent referral/support lines.  In Karnataka (but not in Kerala), there d11 be community-
based Village Health Guides and trained Traditional Birth Attendants below (and supported by) subcenters.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
STRATEGY PAPER
A. Purpose
1.        The project provides substantial additional resources of trained
staff, facilities and equipment. Project benefits depend on the effective
management of these resources: in particular, their concentration where
they will be most productive, and strong support for the village level
field staff who are the front line of implementation.
2.        The purpose of this paper is to set out strategic priorities for
implementation management in four key areas: concentration on selected
tasks; concentration on selected clients; supervision; and training. The
strategy outlined below is built on the concept of integrated service de-
livery, and is wholly consistent with GOI policies: the changes proposed in
priorities and practices are incremental rather than radical. Nevertheless,
they imply significant reorientation at the field level, and can only be
realized with strong and sustained support from senior managers and doc-
tors.
B.   Task Concentration
3.        The job descriptions of multipurpose workers are extremely com-
prehensive. Staff resources will need to be focussed on a smaller number
of key tasks, as outlined below, if they are to have maximum impact in re-
ducing fertility and infant mortality.
Family Welfare
4.        Significant recent progress has been made in the numbers of con-
traceptive acceptors, particularly as a result of the promotion of sterili-
zation. However, while the project will make sterilization a more widely
available option, a continuing focus only on permanent methods to the ex-
clusion of temporary methods would make it virtually impossible to achieve



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
the targets set for the pro:ject. A priority of the project will, there-
fore, be to popularise where appropriate the use and increase the con-
tinuance rates of temporary methods, particularly IUD and condom, which
are likely to be the only acceptable protection for younger couples.
5.        Since temporary methods have much lower continuation rates than
does sterilization, increases in the prevalence of these methods imply pro-
portionately greater increases in the numbers of new acceptors. The at-
tached tables give estimates of the number of new acceptors (IUDs) and
equivalent current acceptors (orals and condoms) that would be needed to
achieve modest levels of prevalence for temporary methods by the end of the
project. For IUDs, the Karnataka project districts would need an average
of about 30,000 new IUD acceptors annually compared to about 17,000 in
1982-83, while the Kerala districts would need about 10,000 new acceptors
annually compared to 6,000 in 1982-83. Similarly, the average annual
number of equivalent acceptors for orals and condoms would have to almost
double in Karnataka, and in Kerala would have to increase many times that.
These challenging goals can be achieved only if senior managers and doctors
take the lead in reversing traditionally negative staff attitudes towards
temporary methods.
Maternal and Child Health
6.        Priority has to ba given to the commonest causes of substantial
morbidity and mortality. For the newborn, prematurity and neonatal teta-
nus rank high. The incidenze of complications of pregnancy can be reduced
through adequate ante-natal care including the supply of iron and folic
acid tablets to prevent anaemia. The majority of high risk pregnancy can
be detected through routine ante-natal checkups and then should be referred
promptly for physician care. This will improve morbidity and mortality both
of the mother and newborn. Neonatal tetanus can be eliminated by the immu-
nization of all expectant mDthers.
7.       Diarrhoea and pneumonia account for most of the mortality in in-
fants and young children. The former disease responds remarkably to oral
rehydration. Mothers have to be taught how to prepare the solution and ad-
minister it in their own homes. Immunization has to be extended to protect
all infants and children from preventable illnesses, including respiratory
infections caused by diphtheria and whooping cough. Better general care for
the infant or child when a cold develops (e.g., smoke-free humid environ-
ment, additional fluid, coaxing and spending additional time on feeding)
can reduce the incidence of pneumonia. Educating mothers to refer children
with chest infections is also critical.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
8.        Children who fail to thrive are more prone to disease and run
a higher risk of dying. Surveillance of all infants and young children
through periodic weighing and the use of growth charts will be an essen-
tial component of child health activities. Education in the importance
of breastfeeding and adequate supplementary feeding is high on the list
of child health priorities, as is prompt referral when the cause of failure
to thrive is not apparent, or when the child fails to respond to corrective
measures.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
9.        All of the key tasks outlined above in both family welfare and
MCH require demand creation and the teaching of new skills through IEC
work. This critical activity must, therefore, continue to be a central con-
cern of all PHC and field staff, and not just of IEC staff. While provi-
sion is made under the project for all forms of IEC work, particular atten-
tion will be given to inter-personal communication as the most effective
means of securing behavioral change, rather than simply increased knowledge
and awareness. This emphasis underlines the importance of focusing field
staff on a small number of key tasks, if they are to have the time required
for effective IEC work. Task concentration is also necessary if VHGs, dais
and community leaders with limited or no training are to grasp the key mes-
sages and contribute to the IEC effort.
C.   Concentration on Selected Clients
10.       Field staff already provide a different intensity of service to
clients, depending on their distance from sub-centers. Under this project,
the aim will be to further concentrate key services and the IEC effort on
selected clients so as to make the maximum impact on fertility and infant
mortality reduction.
Family Welfare
11.       Existing lists of eligible acceptors should be revised and used
to identify priority clients for education in the use of contraception.
This will involve a further shift of emphasis towards younger couples who
are the priority targets for temporary methods. This shift will reinforce
current efforts to promote sterilization among younger couples. Concentra-
tion on priority clients will further focus the tasks and reduce the home
visit workload of field workers (couples one of whom has been sterilized,



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
or whose last live birth was over five years ago make up almost a third of
those eligible). Concentration on priority groups of high risk and high
fertility mothers has significant: benefits. For example, contraceptive
acceptance in the group of wives who are under 30 and have had 3 or fewer
live births, of which the last was in the last 5 years, averts roughly one
and a half times the number of bi.rths that would be prevented by contra-
ceptive acceptance in the group of all other mothers who have had a live
birth in the last 5 years.
Maternal and Child Health
12.       Concentration of care on a limited group of mothers is also es-
sential both to focus on the goa:L of infant mortality reduction, and to
keep field staff workloads to a realistic size. Special emphasis has to be
given to the follow-up of familiess who do not attend organized clinics, and
of families with high-risk pregnancies, and/or malnourished infants and
young children. An examination will be made of alternative procedures for
organizing nutrition surveillances and follow-up care in village communi-
ties, taking into account the potential contribution of trained dais and
VHGs.
13.       The proposed emphasis on infant care in health and on younger
couples in family welfare will bes strongly complementary, since both family
welfare and health care efforts will focus on the same priority group -
young mothers with infants, at or near peak fertility. The coincidence of
target groups will reduce field staff workloads. Over time, healthier
children and reduced infant mortality should encourage contraceptive accep-
tance. More immediately, wider spacing of births will directly benefit
mother and child health.
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
14.       Currently, the wide range of tasks and the large number of cli-
ents pressure MPHWs to the point where their IEC work often becomes a
residual activity not undertaken on a systematic basis. The strategy of
concentration on selected clients outlined above should be implemented so
that each field worker concentrates on a number of clients no larger than
can be visited regularly and for a sufficient time for effective IEC work.
Particular attention will be given to possibilities for using groups of
clients in IEC work in order to maximize the diffusion and reinforcement of
messages.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
15.        An examination will be made of field staff time availability for
home visits and mothers group meetings after allowing for staff time on
leave, at the clinic and PHC, and in other work-related absences. Building
on the proposals for home visiting suggested for the project in Kerala, the
aim will be to estimate the number of clients for which village level work-
ers in different categories can effectively provide IEC. This examination
will take account of the possibilities for using the regular contact with
mothers as an opportunity for IEC on a group basis.
D.   Supervision
16.       The changes in priorities and practices outlined above imply
significant reorientation at the field level. Such a reorientation will
only be forthcoming with strong support from supervisors at all levels,
but initially, and most importantly, from senior managers and doctors
whose priorities set the incentives for the line staff below them.
Supervisory Routines
17.       Changes in attitude in particular cannot be mandated, but must be
developed over time through repeated demonstration of superiors' support
for them. This translates in practical terms into regular supervision of
subordinates on the job. An examination will be made of the field super-
vision schedules of district level and PHC staff and HAs to determine
whether junior staff are visited sufficiently frequently, regularly and for
long enough periods for effective supervision. Field visit schedules will
be revised as necessary, and managers will give priority to ensuring that
schedules are adhered to.
Targets, Norms and Reports
18.       Performance targets, norms and reports must reflect the emphasis
on key tasks if they are to send the right incentives to field staff. The
MIES component of the project will over time review and strengthen the pro-
gram monitoring system at all levels. More immediately, an examination
will be made of the targetting and monitoring system insofar as it directly
determines field staff practices, with the aim of recommending immediate
changes which do not involve radical reform, but which would help to focus
field workers on key tasks. These might include the elimination of time-
consuming reporting requirements where these do not bear directly on key



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
tasks, and the development of simple performance indicators for key activi-
ties. For the nutrition surveillance task, for example, performance meas-
ures might include monthly sumumaries publicly displayed at each sub-center
of numbers of children eligible for weighing, number with growth chart,
number weighed that month, number showing adequate weight gain and numbers
with different degrees of malnutrition.
Supervision as Support
19.       Over-emphasis on targets and norms can oppress rather than mo-
tivate village level workers. For supervisors, the key reorientation to be
pursued under this project is a move away from a managerial style which em-
phasizes authority and direction, towards one which emphasizes responsive-
ness to problems, and support. One important step is the implementation of
regular supervisory visits in t:he village while workers are on the job, ra-
ther than supervision by report: and summons of subordinates to sub-center,
PHC or district office. A furt:her step will be the more even allocation of
supervisory time during field visits between three functions: checking per-
formance (which now receives greatest attention); eliciting field workers'
problems; and giving in-service training and advice.
Information, Education and Commaunication (IEC)
20.       The project provides for the strengthening of IEC staff respon-
sible for the technical suppori: of village level workers. Nevertheless, it
is non-IEC specialists at the PHC who will be responsible for the adminis-
trative supervision of village-level workers on a day-to-day basis, and who
will, therefore, determine the time and emphasis which workers will give
to IEC in practice.  It will, therefore, be critical for supervisors them-
selves to appreciate that the effectiveness of IEC work will determine suc-
cess or failure in reaching their own family welfare and MCH goals, and to
transmit the importance of IEC work at each supervisory visit. Currently,
IEC is neglected in part because the quality of work cannot be directly and
quantitatively measured. An important element in reorientation of the su-
pervision process will be the complementing of quantitative measures for
assessing performance with the development of routines for the qualitative
assignment of IEC work. The aim will be to focus supervision increasingly
on inquiries to see whether field workers know key IEC messages, dicussion
of clients' reactions, and training in adapting messages to meet clients'
perceptions and circumstances.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
E.   Training
21.       The strategy of concentration and the reorientation of supervi-
sion outlined above need to be reflected in the content of the staff train-
ing and re-training provided under the project, particularly, in the ini-
tial stages, in the training of managers and doctors who determine priori-
ties and attitudes down the line. Three emphases in the content of train-
ing will be important.
Focus on Key Tasks
22.       The reasons for the concentration strategy, the rationale for the
selection of the particular key tasks, and basic familiarity with the tasks
themselves will need to be imparted to all trainees, irrespective of their
rank, sector or specialization.
Focus on Management and Supervision
23.       Ample evidence shows that a focus on technical training alone
does not lead to change in managerial practices in the field.   If atti-
tudes and practices are to be reoriented, training will need to focus not
just on the technical aspects of tasks, but on the management and supervi-
sion of these tasks, and on the process of reorientation itself.  Thus,
specific training will be needed to familiarize trainees with criteria for
priority client selection; methods of selection; setting up and monitoring
targets, etc. Particular attention will be given to training in the re-
orientation and management of the supervision process.  Detailed proposals
will be made for the incorporation of such training into existing sylla-
buses.
Focus on IEC
24.       All staff will be directly involved in IEC activities in the
field. A substantial portion of training time will be devoted to IEC work
or its supervision, for staff of all ranks, sectors and specializations.
Proposals will be made for the development of forms of training particular-
ly suited to IEC, such as role-playing, simulations and field-visits.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
F. Follow-Up
25.       The strategy set out in this paper is a broad one.  The six week
survey of staff skills, attitudes and practices will provide the informa-
tion needed to develop this strategy into more specific proposals for im-
plementation. The six week survey will focus in particular on:
a.    a review of field staff priorities, especially the relative
attention given in practice to different family planning and
health care tasks and to reporting; and of how the reporting
system influences fiteld staff in the priority they give to
particular tasks;
b.    a review of IEC activities undertaken by MPWs, in particular
the current regularity, frequency and length of home visits
and the number of clients reached; the messages most emphasized;
and the degree to which messages are adapted to individual
family circumstances;
C.    the criteria used in practice by MPWs to select clients for
visiting, including proximity to the sub-center, and demographic
and socio-economic characteristics of client families;
d.    a review of the frequency, regularity and length of supervision
visits currently made by district level staff, PHC doctors and
HAs to their subordinates; and of the way in which supervisory
time is in practice divided between checking performance, elicit-
ing field staff problems, and giving in-service training and
advice; and
e.    a review of the strengths and weaknesses of staff training at
all levels in the light of the findings under (a) through (d)
above.
26.       Proposals to initiate action in the context of the strategy set
out in this paper, for the ten project districts, will be prepared by the
States in consultation with the Government of India and reviewed with the
Association each year.



-55-
ANNEX 2
INDIA : THIRD POPULATIUN PROJECT
ACCEPTOR ESTIMATES FOR PROJECT DISTRICTS
KARNATAKA:
TOTAL .5
81-82   82-83   83-84   84-85   85-86   86-87   87-88   88-89 PROJECT
PY 1    PY 2    PY 3    PY 4    PY 5   YEARS
PCT ELI(;IBLr COUPLES (EC) 1971:      17.16
EST POP  1.349E? 1.377E7 1.406E7 1.436E7 1:466E7 1.497E7 1.528E7 1.561E7
E PCT EC   16.06   15.96   15.86   15.76   15.66   15.56   15.46   15.36
-EST EC   2165748 2197545 2229730 2262305 2295273 2328635 2362394 2396551
…- - -- - -     - - - - --- - --- - -- - -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _____ -._
STErl (CONT RATE c 94%)
PYtEV   21.41   22.88   24.63   26.65   28.88   31.31   33.92   36.67
CONT           435831  472571  516311  566630  623135  685454  753237
NEW   55047   66904   76696   86488   96279  106071  115863  125655  530355
TOTAL  46361S0  502735  549267  602798  662910  729206  801316  878892
IUI) (CONT RATE = 51%)
PREV    1.09    1.32    1.57    1.81    2.06    2.31    2.56    2.81
CONT            12088  .14631    17292   20012.   22763   25529   28303
NEW   12769   16601   19274   21948   24621   27294   29967   32641  136470
TOTAI,  23702   28689   33906   39239   44633   50057   55496   60944
ORALS
PrEV    0.22    0.34    0.41    0.48    0.55    0.62    0.69    C).75
CURRENT
LU. AC.    4712    7419    9190   10962   12733   14504   16276   18047   72522
CONV CON
1L'RV -      37    1.52   1.67    1.82      1.96    2.09    2.22    Z.35
CURREUN'.
ECi  AC.   97765   33447   37268   41089   44910   48731   52552   56373  243655
TOT A L
PREV   24. 09   26 . 06   2 8 .28   3 0 .76   3 3.45   3 6 .34   3 9 .40   4 2.59



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
ACCEPTOR ESTIMATES FOR PROJECT DISTRICTS (cont'd.)
KERALA:
TOTAL 5
81-82    82-83    83-84    84-85    85-86    86-87    87-88    88-89 PROJECT
P'Y 1    PY 2    PY 3    PY 4    PY 5   YEARS
PCIr ELIGIBLE COUPLES (EC) 1971:        15.47
EST POP 5556631 5687083 5820650 5957406 6097429 6240798 6387594 6537901
E rCT EC   14.37    14.27    14.17    14.07   13.97    13.87   13.77    13.67
EST EC     798488  811547  824786  838207  851811   865599  879572   893731
STER (CONT RATE - 96%)
PREV    14.92    16.41    18.13    20.06    22.17   24.44    26.86    29.40
CONT            114333  127850   143570  161404   181268  203082   226766
NEW   15393    18844   21702    24560    27417    30275    33133    35991   151375
TOTAL  119097        133177   149552   168129  188821  211543  236214   262756
IUD (CONT RArE = 59%)
PREV     1.25     1.49     1.74      2.00     2.27     2.54      2.81     3.09
CONT              5894     7002      8188     9421    1Q682    11959    13245
NEW     4720     5973     6877      7780     8684     9587    10491    11394    47935
TOTAL     9990    11867    13878    15968    18105    20269    22449    24639
ORALS
PREV     0.02     0.04     0.05      0.06     0.07     0.08      0.09     0.10
CURRENT
EQ. AC.       195      298      401      504       607      710      813       916     3550
CONV CON
PREV     0.25    0.64      0.64      0.63     0.63     0.63      0.62     0.62
CURRENT
EQ. AC.    z030       5193     5247     5302      5356     5410     5464     5519    27050
TOTAL L
PREV    16.45    18.57    20.56    22.75    25.13    27.68    30.38    33.21
Note:  Because the fourth project district, Wayanad, was established only in 1980, estimates
of contraceptive prevalence for the district are not available. However, since the
population of Wayanad is so small (.5 million as compared to 5.5 million in the
other three project districts in 1981), the effect of excluding it from these
estimates is minimal.



-57 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Projecc/Components                  Objective                       Performance Indicators               Data Sources
India Population Project !II        Improve health and family      Changes in infant and child          Base line surveys,
welfare status of the po-      mortality and morbidity rates,       follow up surveys.
pulation by reducing           matertnal mortality rates, and
mortality, morbidity and       fertility and mortality rates.
fertility.
Change in proximate determinants   Service statistics,
of fertility (contraception,        periodic prevalence
abortion).                           surveys and studies.
Project Components
A.  P-nysical facilities            To improve accessibility       Number (and percentage) of:
and manpower                   and utilization of health
and family planning serv-      - Registered mothers for ante-       Service Statistics.
ices.                            natal care.
- Average visits for each mother. Follow-up Surveys.
- Mothers vaccinated against         Supervision and
Tetanus (TT).                     Evaluation Reports.
- Deliveries by health team,
trained dais, and others.
- Delivery cases referred to
other hospitals.
- Post-natal visits.
- Contraceptive acceptance.
- Clinic Attendance.
-Immniztaion for DPT, polio,
TB, etc.
- Morbidity statistics according
to diagnosis.
- Causes of infant and child
B.  Training Component             To staff MCH/FP services.       - Improved staffing.                 Evaluation of
training programs.
To improve the quality of      - Knovledge, attitude and
MCH/FP services.                 skill of the trainees.             Service statistics.
- Increase in the number            Special studies.
of clients served.
- Clients' satisfaction
with services.
C.  Conaxunication Component        To increase the knowledge      - Changes in knowledge about         Special surveys and
about benefits and avail-        HFW issues.                        studies.
ability of HEW services.
Service statistics.
To create a supportive en-    - Changes in knowledge about
virornment for HEW services.     HFW services.
To increase recognition        - Commnnity's response to HFW
of HFW program as an essen-      staff.
tial component of develop-
ment by the staff of other    - Participation of leaders in
development departments.         planning and implementation



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
INDIA : THIRlD POPULATION PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR LOCATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
Criteria for Subcenters and Lady Hlealth Visitor (LHV) Quarters
1.        The subcenter in normal ground areas will cater for 1:5000 popu-
lation.   Those in hilly or tribal areas will cater for 1:3000 population.
2.        No subcenter should norrlally be located within 8 kms of an up-
graded primary health center (PHC) or taluk hospital, and 5 kms of a PHC
or subsidiary health center (SHC) unless there is an unbridged crossing or
very concentrated population unit requiring a decision to the contrary.
3.        No subcenter should normally require the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
(ANM) or villager to walk more than 3 kms.
* .      TLHV quarters are t_ be Located to 4 subcenters.
zSuDcenzerS should, as far as practicable, be located in villages
zOnneGec D- roacs tc PHGs or ,ahsil or district headquarters.
s.        A subcenter should be located preferablv in the biggest village
In a cacnmenIt so as to make servi.ces available to the largest numbers.
Subcenters should be sit:ed in villages where other public service
bu-idings are already located.  These are post offices, schools, markets,
e_c.
8.        All subcenters shall have their own source of water and electri-
city. Whenever this is geographically impossible, they should be located
within 100 metres of a clean and permanent water source.
9.        Sites to be considered should either be donated by the village
communitv or be situated in public: land.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
10.       The catchment area for a subcenter should, as far as possible,
not have any unbridged crossings.
11.       The site should be accessible from a main road and should need no
culvert or approach road.
12.       The site should be free from flooding, be well drained and free
from water logging.
13.       The site selected in tribal or hilly areas should be near to
single teacher school locations, or housing clusters whenever possible.
14.       Sites consisting of made up ground, block cotton or soil contain-
ing excessive quantities of salts are to be avoided. Trial pits are to be
dug and soils analysed by the engineering departments whenever this possi-
bility occurs.
15.       A district site selection committee is to be formed early in the
project period to formally approve all sites. This committee is to be
chaired by the district collector - or Assistant Commissioner and include
the district medical officer and district engineer or superintendent en-
gineer.
Criteria for SHCs and PHCs
16.       Each SHC shall cater for about 30,000-35,000 population.  Each
PHC and/or community health center (CHC) shall cater for approximately
100,000 population for referral patients and for about 30,000-35,000 popu-
lation for SHC-type services.
17.       The criteria for selection of subcenter location shall also apply
generally for major works.
18.       A clean and permanent water supply will be made available for all
major buildings. This will include overhead storage tanks and piped water
supply.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
19.       An assured electricity supply to all major buildings must be pro-
vided.
20.       A hard weather permanent approach road should be provided.  This
road is to connect to a main road providing all year round accessibility to
other major buildings such as district hospitals.
21.       The selected site shaLl have sufficient space for future expan-
sion.
Criteria for CHCs
22.       The proposed CHCs shall be centrally located with respect to PHCs
in the catchment area and be connected by all weather roads for each refer-
ral access.
23.       The CHC shall have the largest concentrated population in its
vicinity.
24.       The CHC shall not normally be located within 10 kms of district
headquarters.
25.       Every taluk of a district shall normally have a CHC.
Criteria for Other Buildings
26.       Sites for ANM hostels and training centers, and for equipment and
vehicle workshops, shall be located at the divisional or district headquar-
ter towns which are centrally located, not only to the districts selected
for third population project but to the State as a whole.  These sites need
not fall within the project districts and should be located where the maxi-
mum coverage can be realised.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE LIST OF OPERATIONS RESEARCH STUDIES
1.        The specific studies to be undertaken under the project will be
determined in the course of implementation. The following list, however,
illustrates some of the topics that could be covered in the studies:
a.    upgrading administrative and management skills of primary
health centers (PHC) doctors;
b.    decentralizing the development of information, education and
communication (IEC) materials;
c.    involving the community in the management and evaluation of
health and family welfare services;
d.    increasing the use of spacing methods: the Copper-T intra-
uterine device;
e.    diagnostic research on coverage provided by field workers;
f.    use of small-scale survey research to improve the management
information system;
g.    increasing the use of spacing methods through a rural post-
partum program; and
h.    increasing the use of oral contraceptive pills: training of
peripheral level workers, and measurement of side effects and
continuation rates.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Government of India:
Family Welfare Yearbooks through 1981-82
Health for All by the Year 2COO. (New Delhi, 1981)
Report of the Working Group on Population Policy. (New Delhi, 1980)
Government of Karnataka:
Project Proposal. (March 1983)
Family Welfare Yearbook, 198C-81
Proceedings of an International Seminar on the Social Context of
Demographic Change (Bangalore, 1982)
Government of Kerala:
Project Proposal. (March 1983)
Review of Family Welfare Performance 1981-82
World Bank:
F.H.H. Walker, Consultant, Report on Construction Activities.
(July 1983)
T.S. Mehta, Consultant, Report on Population Education.
(July 1983)
S. da Cunha, Consultant, Report on Information, Education and
Communication. (July 1983)
K. Zachariah, Anomaly of the Fertility Decline in Kerala.
(July 1983)
N.B. Rao et al, Determinants of Fertility Decline in Rural
Karnataka. (March 1983)



- 63 -
TABLE 1
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SELECTED CENSUS DATA
Census        Census             Decade          Average           Estimated         Estimated
Years         Population          Increase       Annual            Crude             Crude
(Millions)          (%)           Growth Rate       Birth Rate        Death Rate
(%)             per 1,000         per 1,000
Population       Population
1901           238.3
1911           252.0               5.73            0.56               49.2              42.6
1921           251.2              -0.30           -0.03               48.1              47.2
1931           278.9              11.00            1.06               46.4              36.3
1941           318.5              14.23            1.34               45.2              31.2
1951           361.0              13.31            1.26               39.9              27.4
1961           439.1              21.64            1.98               40.9              22.8
1971           548.2              24.85            2.20               41.1              18.9
1981           685.2              24.99            2.25               33.9a/            12.5a/
a/  Sample Registration System (SRS) estimates.
Source: Visaria and Visaria, India's Population : Second and Growing, Table 2.



- 64 -
TABLE 2
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
POPULATION PROJECTIONS 1985-2025a/
Year              Projected                  Average Annual           Crude Birth       Crude Death
Population                 Rate of Natural          Rate per 1000    Rate per 1000
(in millions)              Increase  (%)           population         population
1985                 754.4                       2.22                     35.2              13.0
1990                 836.0                       2.05                     32.4              11.9
1995                 919.1                       1.89                     29.8              10.9
2000                1001.3                       1.72                     27.1               9.9
2005                1081.7                       1.55                     24.7               9.2
2010                1159.0                       1.39                     22.5               8.6
2015                1231.5                       1.22                     20.4               8.2
2020                1296.3                       1.02                     18.2               8.0
2025                1361.1                       0.97                     17.7               8.0
a/ Calculated on the assumption that NRR = 1 by 2020.
Source: World Bank Population Projections.



- 65 -
TABLE  3
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SELECTED SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND DEMOGRAPHIC DATA
FOR PROJECT STATES AND DISTRICTS
Karnataka                    Kerala
Six Project      Whole      Four Project    Whole    All-
Districts       State       Districts       State    India
Area (Sq.Km.)                                   79,911        191,791       15,221        38,863   3.3 mil
Population (millions)                1981         13.2          37.1           6.0          25.5   685.2
Population Density (Sq.Km.)          1981          165           194           392           655      216
Percent Urban                        1981           25            29             7            19       23
Crude Birth Rate per 1000 pop.    1981                            29                          26       34
Crude Death Rate per 1000 pop.    1981                             9                           7       13
Rate of Natural Increase
per 1000 pop.                     1981                          20                          19      21
Total Fertility Rate - Rural         1980                        3.7                         3.0
Infant Mortality Rate
per 1000 births                   1978                          82                          42     127
Infant Mortality Rate
per 1000 births - Rural           1978                         90                           45     134
Percent Literacy (Male)              1981           45            49            65            74       47
(Female)          1981           20            28            53            64       25
(Total)           1981           33            38            59            69       36
Percent Growth                   1971-1981        22.9          26.7          26.5          19.2    25.0
Sex Ratio (F/1000 M)                1981          969            963        1,029          1,032     933
Percent Religion (Hindu)             1971           84            86                          59      83
(Muslim)                         14            11                          20       11
(Christian)                       2             2                          21        3
(Other)                           1             1                          -         3
Percent Scheduled Caste              1981           11            13            12            10       15
Percent Scheduled Tribe              1981            1             1             3             1        7
Percent Electrified Villages         1981           73            77            92
Percent Villages with
Drinking Water Facilities         1981                         69             40
Hospital Bed/Population Ratio        1981       2,336           1,065        1,871           814   1,460
Doctor/Population Ratio              1981      12,248         10,500       10,973          6,689



- 66 -
TABLE 4
.:N_IA:% T1118 POPULAION PRJEIC
INDIA, EARNTAIA AND :ERAIA: FAMILY WELFABE AND
MATERNAL-HInL) HEALTd SHERVICE STATISTICS, 1978/79 - 1982/83
978-79          1979-80          1980-81          1981-82          1982-83
ALL-ILNDIA: (In thousands)
FAMILY FLAN2NHI -
Sterilizations                                    1484             1778             2053             2792             3981
V-uectomiao                                      391              473              439              573
Tubeto=ie=                                     1093             1305             1614             2219
IUD Iooerticra                                    552              635              628               750             1074
Oral Pillu /                                        82               82               91              120              170
Conventional Co.trareptiees3/                     3387             2987             3718             4433             5718
Equivalent Sterilizations3/                       1865             2165             2479             3301             4676
MIP Procedures                                     318              360              388              427
Percent Eligible Co.plee
Carrectly Ptntec,nd4/                          24.0%            23.6%            24.4%             25.7%            28.5%
IATERNAL-CHILD HEALTH
Tetarna (TT)5/                                    3717             4746             5275             6547             6944
Diptheria/Pertnaia/Teitnua  (DPT)6/               6803             6829             7147             9110             9264
Diptheria/Tetarus (UT)7/                          7207            10731            10227            10745             9414
Ntritional Anemia Frophyl-ais (Wom-n)            10039            11484            11085            11807            13487
NutritionaL Anemia Prophyl-is (Children)          9083             9950             9558            12175            12879
Vitamin A8/                                      13951            16963            16643            17354            14278
KARNA7iEA:
FAMILY PFANNIN(i -
HrsniLzatioe.                                     96000           117167           142896         188820            232966
V_etat                                           4886            5584              4785           2498               248
Tubertes-                                       91114          111583            138111         186322            230518
IUD Insertions                                    33901           50776             54657           55448            68750
Oral Pilla1/                                       5756             5412             8945           11382            21701
Coonentiotal Cont_raceptile2/                     75582           83285             88293          89236              94192
Eqtiv.o-nt Sterili_ati_ns3/                      112139           139320           167014         213525             263527
IIT  Procedures                                   12738            14718            16895           16726             17794
Percent Eligible C-pies
Correctly Prtected_45/                          22.6%            23.7%            24.0%            25.5%            n.a.
MATERNAL-CHILD HEALTH -
To-acur (Tr)                                     225699           325472           342999                            479555
Dipthe-ia/Pe-tusis/Tetanus (DPT)                446580            592473          685272                             739788
Dipthe-ia/Tetanun  (DI)                         470628            403874           768059                            561183
Nutritinial Acr-in Prophylaxi. (Wloen)           570744           643784           681935                            663720
NatritinaL Anemia Pr-phylaxis (Childran)         376443           469825           537378                            556215
Vitamin A
KKRALA:
FAMILY PIANNINGA+ -
Sterilizations                                   90090            99026           112974          123858            144059
V--etories                                      15131           14335            15854           16262             17250
Tu.e-totrai                                    74959            84691            97120          107596            126809
IUD Insertions                                    12095            17017            18394          20558              28111
OraL Pills!/                                        208              264              740            1169              2257
Conve_tional Contra_eptives2/                                      18013            18497           16363             25781
EqaivaLent strilinations3/                                        100628           120215          131750            155112
MLTP Procedures                                   27830            32597            36215           35033
Percent Eligible Couples
Currently Protected4,5/                          29.2%            29.7%            31.2%           32.3%            0.6.
MATEEAIL-CHI3L  HEALTH
Teta_nu  (T1)6/                                  007300          368536            266138         487691
Diptheriu/Pert_sis/Tetnnoa (DpF)7/               S66110          460959           520915          664043
Diptheria/Tetanus (8Y)6/                         362773          769667            530612         600180
Nutritioral Anemia Prophylaxis (Wones)           S66217           531004          763738          600792
Nutritional Anemiu Prphylais (Childre-)          515568           601882          729674           727741
Vitamin A8/                                     1162716         1412507           1300168        2389801
1/        EquivaLeat annuaL users; anLulated us  stber of cycie  distributed/13.
2/        EquivtLest ussnal users; caLculated anstuer of pie-es disrtibted/72.
3/        ClnaLcated us mamber of stelillomtloss and mater of IUD irnertiorn/3,  ad
usber ef eqoilolest pilL isers/9, and ssmlr of equoa-lesi oens of con-
ventionsL  ntncreptites/18.
4/        Ihsber of eligible couples .ntited on the bain of the proportion of
marrie.d  enf  15-44 fOnu tNl  1971 censu  -nd pepslaties prajentiau  fOnu
the 1971 and 1981 resmwes.
5/        ODI figurns; figures provided by the State  AoveEnsen  are slightly
different.
°/        NuMber of third plus 1  o1 ter Homes administered.
/         N-uber of -end plu  bMaster Asse  sdmibistnred.
5             . N  i 4frir t d    a           .



- 67 -
TABLE 3
INDIA 70THIRD POPU3LATION PROJECT
KARRATAIANMD KM"A  PROJEC  DISTRICTS
FAMILY WELFARE SE26117 STATISTCS, 1978/79 - 1982/83
. . .  . .  . ..A.      .  . . .  .      . . . . . ..T.      .  . . .  .  . . .  .  . . .  .
1978-79          I7-8          18-8          I18-52          9198-83'
840            NC             NO              NO              NO
SIX DISTRICTS COMBINED
VASEC                                                                           737
P21BEC                                                                        66167
STIR          27737          35148           51938           55047          66904
IUD1          5908          1 24 85         1 3 834        12 7689         16601
ORAL                           2*05                           4712            7419
cc         I8 16 3         25 2 35        2 8 092         29 7 65        33 44 7
Ea  ST         30715           40945          58110           61480           75120
:000?           247             3 2 3           4 4 9          4  65           5 57
NTP                                                                         293 2
GlINTS  700V                                           23-2           24 2
VASEC:2
OTTR           8943          11088           16297           15628          16632
2IUD           8 22          3 7506          3 88 1         351 3           4 7 4
ORAL                            372                            913            1447
cc          4 94 0          5342            6 0 77         57 47           7 233
E02 ST           9 49 1        1286 61        1 79*8          17 22 0         26a7 75
21000*'           5 3 8          4 4 2           6 1 3          5  7 7          6  el
NT?                                                                           53a5
00ON0R  PREV                                           06  2          27 6
CEIAR
0110CC                                                                         4 23b
STER           1427            162*           1865            3053            4317
211UL          3 11            6 54           7 08            5 53            8 15
ORAL                            166                            226             437
cc          1784            2296            2027           *679            2148
EC) ST           1 63 0         1 9 85          2321 9         3 35 6          4 7 56
/1000*'           1 73           5 0 1           0 27           3  36           4 A68
KTP                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~420
coNrR  PRCR                                            23  1          22 9
0 1,/PUSV E,                                                                                 
TUBIC                                                                         * 1670
STIR           5290            5822           79*5           12422          1*844
I11*           545           0520            2503           2414            52*5
CORAL                           441                            726            1116
cc;         266 A0          6 01 9          53 5 5         6037           6289
SO  ST           56*9           7045            9047          11643           *3389
'12007            2 47           3 24            3483            4e8            5  46
OtT?                                                                         2 62
009605  7R07                                           20.1           21.6
01*A5 WAD
VA SEC                                                                          125
03BCC                                                                         15430
STIR           8096          11769           17940           *3299          195555
130D          20178          5 8214          4 2865         3 3 55          4 09 5
ORAL                            340                           1383            *708
cc          4 0533          5*24            8 78a2         6 35 9         6 4 07
DO  ST           9046          *3362          19745           14925          *7476
2050 DP         3 2 9           4 7 4           6 8 5          505a      5    579
9ITP                                                                        10a6 3
CONTS  PREV                                            26.9           27.5
COLO3RSGA
SASIC                                                                           15 1
TUREC                                                                          8989
STIR           *536            1990           2526            8073           9080
1 50           4 02            7 75          1 (106         I  *75          1 469 
ORAL                            260                            440             914
cc          21 31           28a520          3 3 23         3 6 97         4 4003
CO  ST           2788           2456            3059           6952            99*6
/1 ~0257P         29*            1 2*            *  49          3  354          4  67
NT?                                                                          400
C0ONTR  PREV                                           20  1          20.6
RA I TC/UR
V651C                                                                            86
TURIC                                                                          7390
STIR           2445            2858           5425            6372           7478
1IUD          1 65 0         1 0*16          1 355         106 59          2 2697
ORAL                            524                           2204           1707
cc           26*1           5 62 4         4 4 28          6 2486         6 9 79
E0  ST           5142           3456            6121           7395            98609
I1*00*           2.88~ s        2 0 3           3 .5 1         4  2 4          4  82
lIT?                                                                         2 33
CI2NT** PROP                                           19  8          21.2
-PROVISI1ONAL 1



- 68-                               TABLE 5
FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE STATISTICS (conl:'d.)
1978-79       1979-80       1980-8i       1981-82      1982-83t
NO.           NO.        NO.              NO.           NO.
EOUR DISTRICTS COMBINED
VASEC                                                                  3157
TUBEC                                                                 19150
STER                                     11941         19863         22307
IUD                                      5063          6932          6896
ORAL                                                                   339
CC                                      4320          3663          5655
EQ ST                                     13869         22377         24958
itQOOP                                      2.35          3.69          4.02
lT?
IDUKXI
VASEC           354           377                                      1224
TUBEC          1112          1155                                      3410
STER          1155          1532          1853          4788          4634
IUD          378            547           755           468           771
ORAL                                                      26            20
CC          985          1293            868           641          1638
EO ST          1 336         1786          2153          4982          498.4
/1000?          1.46          1.90          2.24          5.06          4.94
MT?           117
CONTR PREV                                       16.7          19.3
MA;LAPPURAM
VASEC           503           330                                       342
TUBEC          2901          3476                                      7249
STER         .3231          3806          4869          5542          7591
IUD         1038          1262          1938           2033          3044
ORAL                                                      68           155
CC         2362          1501           1807          1326          1909
EG ST          3708          4310          5615          6301          8729
/1000P          1.64          1.86          2.36          2.58          3.49
.NTP          220
CONTR PREV                          -            12.7          13.8
PALCHAT
VASEC           361           3D0                                       365
TUBEC          2666          3090                                      6254
STER          3027          3390          4470          5063          6619
IUD          943          1214          2212          2219          2158
ORAL                                                     101           123
CC         1629          1500          1633             63          1646
Ea ST          3432          3878          5298                        7443
/IOOOP          1.76          1.95          2.61                        3.53
MTP           730
CONWR PREV                                       18.7          19.3
WAYANAD
VASEC                                                                  1226
TUBEC                                                                  2237
STrR                                       749          4470          3463
IUD                                       158         2212            925
ORAL                                                       8            42
CC                                        12          1633           462
EQ ST                                       802          5299          3802
/1000P                                      1.47          1.42          6.55
NTP
CONTR PREV                                         **            **
*PROVISIONAL
**N.A. DUE TO RECENT CREATION OF DISTRICT



- 69 -
TABLE 6
INDIA   THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
KRNTAK  AND AKULA : PJECTED REQCnlaMENTS FOR MULTIPURPOSE IWRKERS
AND HEALTH ASSISTGNTS, POSITIONS FIL-L  AND STUID=f$S GQAfATfD BY PROJECT END
Staff                                                                        Project Year
Category                 0               1               2               3               4               5            Total
KAMTAA
MPWF Requirements                                                                                        2,808
Positions filled at
etid of year            1,949           1,972           2,231           2,242           2,646           2,809
Graduate durinig year                      169              378            378             388             336        1649
MPWMs Reguiremeunts                                                                                       2,312
Positions filled at
end of year             2,347           2,170           2,008           2,054           2,095           2,134
Graduates during year                                                       196             196            196         588
HAFs Requirements                                                                                           486
Positions filled at
etid of year              280             329             375             416             456             491
Graduates during year                       70              70              70'              70             70         350
HAMs Requirements                                                                                          486
Positions filled at
end of year               491             420             389             394             437             472
Graduates durinig year                                                       35             70               70        175
K1RALA
MPWF Requirements                                                                                        1,538
Positions filled at
end of year               619             689             918           1,136           1,348           1,549
Graduates durinyg year                     132             291             291             291             291        1,296
MEWMs Requirements                                                                                       1,495
Positions filled at
end of year               822             769             800             831           1,057           1,274
Graduates during year       -               30             107             107             297             297          838
HAFs Requiremeuts                                                                                          345
Positions filled at
end of year               46               89             131             197             288             349
Graduates during year                       45              45              71              71              41          273
HAMs Requiremeuts                                                                                          345
Positions filled at
end of year              181              191             202             212             261             308
Graduates during year                                                                       60              60          120
Promotions during year                      20              20              20
Note: Figures have been adjusted for attrition.



- 70 -
TABL'E 7
INDIA: THIRD  POPULATION  PROJECT
ESTIMATED  COSTS BY COMPONENT AND YEAR
(In hundred thousands of Rupees)
KARNATA'A
Rsse ':J=sts                         Total
Sr4 /8 5     RC: i5' 6 /2    O77/80     ./09    i. o(USe 'ooo
Fit SERlffVICE DELI VEFY                           564.64  II '7 7 . 03 H68.9I i 0 Ij65,4  257 I  476d80 IV.4'  48,005.05
B. INFORMATION EDUCATION AND COMMiUNIC'ATION       ;3f9t,     47.04    t-2.37    4 247   30,07   3116.   3i9?1.36
C  POPUL,ATION EDUCAMQPTICIN                       i3            o 4     Li s'     3.4    3,84    58.30         59 7 ,9 0
RESEARCH HAND EVALUATIO N3T? 17t51                                               .i i 17*f   IQ'   1 5''I   1,308.37
E, F'F'R0.ECT MAtNiACEMENT                         ,1085    8 23.    Bt S:;1 231    8231   13       451.07   4Y677.63
Thtri   IASELINE ,0TCOT5 '9532   3S7 I33. 0                            7S9,;9 1l210,7 336.94 5,633,58  5'7786030
"I7sVical Coritiriger;CieS                         23 .81    54.i33    74.46    43.40         -   1600   2,010.30
Price cc,ritirj enrcies                            70,10   21 4. 73   460 . 10   417,177  1 3E u   1,i501.8  13;349454
Tota, FPROJECT COSTS                               1,052.2  1,60-7+13 2,324,13 iw671i,8   475,,82 7 131t16  73,140.15
Tax. . esE                                       ii " t 7 8  w; b t 1    ; D 7 t0.78   11610I 76  Y8 108.09    8.05   480.21   4i91519
rCiei:sm Exircinsre                               101.18   17942-   2 52 05      7 '    1931,95    7135.81$  7,546.82
KERALA
Zsse C'osts                         Total
4 ;Ci Bi          6 L 7    ii7/                       NI 8   Fs t USs '000)
A. SERVICE 1      RELIVEMRY                          47-   73.4   7947  555,12  548+                 8800  3267741
3. INFORMATION   EDUCATION AND COM4UNICATION         .         47        34  t7   21,55 t     7    214,       2204,54
tOPU }LATION EDUCATION                             0 , 33    14 I 0A   4t1?    4.;1    4f1?    37 . 53       384.9-2
ii RESEARCH A-ND EVAL`A'TIiTij                       36^38    1,3f &4 ,    7'1,21   18.40   3;, 2i   135.t59   1!390,72
E. PDROJIEHT MANAGEMENT                               9i.       4'x      4739?  47,89   478? , 282.57    -iS97,75
Dt-,?  ASELINE  1S-TS                                 71129 771 -47           03  c47t15  6`2,02 36858.60  39,575.40
Pb;!YsiC'rI QConitinaerlCie'-                       20tsfi'    3wsiO    32,L6L'   17,14   13.57    11?.96   1,230.37
5-,~   .  a.. 5-L5 t  inE- e TI CIEIS                Lv .iO    3W^5 i.  ,4,    Ii5*  ._5t_ _ 4ti_   3 ,,      e ,,    :^
P~~iss O.o~~~~~tin~~~e~ies             ::,L r 2   C%      229    2102  27.5            32.32   9,562.24
Total1 ,P-RO3JECT COST S                             793,09i7 1,00.75 1,177.63;9  1i88 35,-2  054,11 4i 91 01J88  50,368.0t
T_sxels                                              ,i .i    o5i .5.,3 2.06    .5t4   534.74   2>3,14   2!545,05
Eicie12isn E;til8rSie                               76', 46   118.36    79,23   7,38   72.62   465c.'55   4.774,92



- 71 -
TABLE 8
INDIA    THIUD  POPULATION  PROJECT
ESTIMAIED COSTS BY EXPENDITUFRE CATEGORY AND YEAR
KANATAKA
Base Costs
Base Costs                                              + PCiLe
(Rs. 100000)                        Foreign Exchansg   Curt, on   Tutai Inci,
---------------------------------------------------- ----------------  Base Cusis              CuiiL.
84/85    85/86    86/87    87188    88/89   Total                  Amount  (US$ 100000) (US$ 100000l
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                    333.66   945.76 1,302.11   775.35            - 3;356.88   10.9    365.80          421.17         442.23
B. FURNITURE                                       34.37    51.05    71.24    48.42            -   205.07    8.;       18.28         25.54          26.82
C. EQUIPMENT                                      108.26    89.83   115.87    44.18            -       14   11.9       428           43.404557
L. VEHICLES                                       219.63      8.08          -         -        -   227,72    8.9       20.30         25.09          25.09
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                695.92 1,094.73 1,489.21   867.94           - 4,147.81   10.A    446.96          515.20         539.71
iI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                                      149.01   130588   180.79   240.31  254.90   955.89    0.0             0.00        124.56        124.56
,; VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE              20.35    32.26    32.26    32.2t6   6.04   143.17   74.9    107.19                18.'9          18.59
C. OTHER OPERATIONAL AND MAINTENANCE COSTS    93.04    80.20    67.32    70.15   56.00   386.71    4.9                19.14         48.55         48.5J
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                262,39   243,34   300,37   342.72  336.94 1,485.77    8.5    126.33               1.91,69        191.69
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   9-8.32 1,33B.07 1,789.59 1,210.67  336.94 5,633.58   10.2    573.29               706,90        731.40
Physical Contimgencies                              23.81    54.33    74,46    43.40            -   19.;,00   10.9      21.33              -             -
Price Contingerncies                                70.10   214.73   460.10   417.77  138.88 1,301.58  1l.8    141.19
Totjl PROJECT COSTS                                 1 052.23 1,607.13 2,314.15 1,671,83  4751.82 7,131,16   10.3    735.81               706.90        731,40
Taxes                                               80.78   116.10   167.18   108.Q0        8.05   480,21    0.0         0.00              -         49.25
Foreis n Exchange                                   10118.  117.942   25 2.05   171.19   31,98   735.81    0.            0.U0 9 05.4i



-72-                                         TABLE   8
ESTIMAED  WOSTS BY EXPENDITURE CAIRGORY AND YEAR  (cont'd)
Base Costs
Base Costs                                              + F!Tic
(Rs. 100000)                       Foreign Exchanrge   Cor,t, or,   Tj tal I  cl.
-------------------------------------------------- ----------------  Bs   Ji                   oi
Ba~se Css       c!~
84/85   85/86    86/i7    87/88   68/89   ToLtal                                         ( 4rounL  (USS 10000  1US$ 1000001
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                 286.49   614.47   539.57  286.,580   1.5i 1!896.62   10.9    206.89               237.7          249.153
P. FURNITURE                                    23.31      24.54     25.10   17.23   12.02   132,20        8,9       9-'i         i2 74
C. EQUIPMENT                                    96.83      i7.02     88.43   39.^0   87.08   398.41    11,°         47.37         50.22          52.'3
01, VEHICLES                                   134.40          -      4.28     6 .20       -   144.68    3.9        12.9' ili  16                 ,16
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             541.04    '-26.0i3   67.40  149.03  270.61 24:44.11   ;0,9    276.28             3i6.42         331.43
11. RECURRENT COSTS
H. SALARIES                                    63.19      ?6,57   149.4    %4.32  282,21        1.7tS.6   0.0       .           108.32         108.32
B. VEHICLE OPERATION AND NAINTENANCE           10.76      18.93    18.93   1       16  9.39    87.18   742S        6525          11.;1          11.41
C. OTHER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS   '4,94    75.94    °6.21   74,64   89.30   411.53'    4,9                2.37          52.52          52.52
Total RECURRENT COSTS                              178.39   11.45        4 2     9.12 35'  1. 41 1r314.,49      . 6      ° .o 372.25               17225
total BASELINE CDSTS                                719.92   9[7.47   912.03  647.15  662.02 38585.60          ;.4      61.8         488Z'.67 I67
Pbvsicol Contirigencies                           20.33   36.3        32,6    17.14   13.53    lq9.96   1iC          i3,1-
Frice Contirisencies                              52.83   146.9o   232 .94       2' .02  278.56   932 .32   9-       "5 49
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 793.09 1 10.73 1,177.63  885.32  954.11 4Q,10,88    S.5    465.55               43S.6          503.68
T eves                                            5141l    Kl.5       62.06   38.4S    4,74   24814 6        .0 1.00 -4
Foreisn E .,.charnse                              -6.46   1:LB.86 l 1923   78.38   72.           465.55     0.;       2.00              - 47 55



- 73 -
TABLE 9
INDIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED 02STS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND COMPONENT
(In  hundred  thousands  of Rupees)
KARNATAKA
INFORM;T7ION                                                   Corur.ser,c eE
SEIRVICE  EDUCATION ANDI POF'ULATION RESEARCH AND  F-':OUE-                -------------
iiELI'ERY COMMUNICATION EiDUCATION   EVALUATION  MANAGEMENT  Total    '%  Aff'oucL
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                                  3i356,3B                -           -              -           - 3ti;6.SE       0  16i. 64
I  FURNITURE                                       179,5                -        05                        24. 2c 05.07   5.G0   C0.2'
C. EQUIPMENT                                       293.60           4722         2,'8           1.27 13,25 35.1A   :.0   17,91
D. VEHICLES                                        i24,89           44, i        2.54           3.G 4      23.i3   2272 7' .^ r V+30 0;
TtA8I INVESTMENT CO.STS                             3.954 4               734      45,4            4.33    j .36 4!1478,.   4.7  13
ii. RECURRENT COST5
A. SALARIES                                       5i2,43          S?.?'         5.31         47.17       301.08    )55.;3  5.i       3 0.02
D. VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE               33,79           25.i         1,            2i.0         , o.O 3 143,17 G.0    2.001'
C. OTHER OPERATIONAL hND MAINTENANCE CSiTS   12^'33              104,22        45,48         74.          33.;72 35 86,71   5,0    !J,.J!
iotas1 RECURREN7 COSTS                                 25.55          2I;          52.45        12-323       3o4.71   4c;57 .7   0,0 .3    !
Totai BASELINE COSTS                                40680.41                                         3. 5c ..  7.D7   i   ,,0  5.033.53    3.5    .C2
Phvsic3l Coritirigencies                            191.50            2,376       0.ic                                 .3. 5   20   .0'
"rice Cor,ntingeri^le 1e1s4,14                                       56,94        i            30.2      I           3.5        .i.3   4'
Total PFJECT COSTi                                   5!;96?.1 3        37CG. 4c     o7,23         15-.cS      534  -ii31e           4  .' ,'
B .: e s                                        433,.3           29.7           4            .            ,62   4B0~ !,     .
Poeigrin E9.iN:affse                                643  7           4.''5        4,5-           7, O3.30             -.,.;i,         Cu;



- 74 -
TABLE 9
ESTIMAT     OXSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGOR;y AND COMPONNT (cont'd)
iNFORMATION 0                                                      F'hvsical
SER'VICE:  EIDUCATvION AAND F'OPUL,'ATION REs'EEARCH ANI  FRE'itECT        -------------
DELIVE'W  COMUNICATI ON EDUCATION   FVALUATION  !1NAGEMENT  TotAsj           Z   Anlouo 
i. INVESTMENT COSTS
H, CIVIL ZORNS                                :,362a3             15.93           -              -           - ±'98.6            i',93
B, FURNITURE                                      2719 ic2 -                                  2.3        11.54    122       5.0 J
C. EQUIFI¶ENT                                    347.66          47J0. '.J2                               0.97   39S.41   *.0   19.92
D. VEHICLE5                                       ii.3 i7                                        -       23. 99   144.36   0.0 S    n.
Total INTVESTMENT COSTS                            411.596           63,5i        >.4           ';17        35,-c 2,544.11   4.7  119.9£
li, RECURRENT COSTS
H. SALARIES                                    53.7             .,^-c         2.67 -o.                i'o.- S 31 5.i73   0.0    yV.'s
B. VEHICLE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE             67.C0 C                      1.30              -                  ' i6 57.IC,  0.0    0.00
L. OTHER OCFERATION AND HAINTENANCE COSTS   150,25             115.30        30.57         31,76         ".o5   4;1,53   0.0    0 .0
Total RECURRENT COST5                               756.04           46 42       35.04         130.43      246.57 1314.49   0.3    0.00
Total BASELItNE COSTS qSo6.00                                        2'4°          7.53         135595?      52,25  356.60   3.1  119.96
rhnsicai Corti8erncles                            115.91            3.1i           -           u -         i) o,3 l0                 O i 0.0
'T .Ce Coirsercms                                 7.               40.37        70           31.93        1.       '         " 3   26.41
Total PROJECT COSTS                                4404; 25-3-99                  44.62          16733       44.;1 4m91CS   3T.  146.36
Taxes                                                             I 1 2.3i4     2-.27         5.634 .4                        368    9.4
roreAr! ExclharnSe                                4i.7             1.24         3A             .71                 45.              1 3.5   1.0



- 75  -
TABLE 10
INDIA : THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS SCHEDULE
(US$ Million)
IDA Financing
Amount         Cumulative
FY 1984
June 30, 1984                                                        .50                .50
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                                                   .50              1.00
December 31, 1984                                                   1.00              2.00
March 31, 1985                                                      1.50               3.50
June 30, 1985                                                       1.50              5.00
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                                                  1.75              6.75
December 31, 1985                                                  2.00               8.75
March 31, 1986                                                      2.25             11.00
June 30, 1986                                                       2.75             13.75
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                                                 2.75               16.50
December 31, 1986                                                   3.50              20.00
March 31, 1987                                                      3.75              23.75
June 30, 1987                                                       3.75              27.50
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                                                 4.00               31.50
December 31, 1987                                                  4.50               36.00
March 31, 1988                                                      5.00              41.00
June 30, 1988                                                       5.00              46.00
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                                                 5.00               51.00
December 31, 1988                                                   5.00              56.00
March 31, 1989                                                      4.00              60.00
June 30, 1989                                                       4.00              64.00
FY 1990
September 30, 1989                                                 3.00               67.00
December 31, 1989                                                  2.00               69.00
March 31, 1990                                                      1.00              70.00



7 76 -
TABLE 11
INDIA T THIRD POPULATION FROJECT
ThFMMNENTAXION   POPULATION EDUCATION
Project Year        Project Year         Project Year         Project Year          Prolect Year
__1                                                           4                     5
KARNATK
1.  State          Training and          Traizning and        Training and          Research and         Research anid
Population     orientation.          orientation,         orientation.         education.            educatior..
Education       Preparation          Preparation          Preparation
Centre         of maaterials.        of Materials.        of materials.
Research and
edu cation.
2,  Regional       Trairning and         Training and         Training and         Training and          Trainiqt  aud
Population     orientation.          orientation.         orientation.         orientation.          orientationt.
Education       Preparation          Preparation
Centres        of materials.         of materials.
(Dharwar and
Culbarga)
3.  District        Training of          Trairin,g of         Trairnng of          Trainig of            Training of
Population      1500 field           1500 field           1500 field            1500 field           1500 field
Cestres        staff.                staff,               staff,               staf-f.               staff.
(Six Project  Lecture series        Lecture series        lecture series       Lecture series       Lecture series
Districts)     at 24 colleges.       at 24 colleges.      at 24 colleges.      at 24 colleges.       at 24 Colleges.
KERALA
1. Degree           Preparation of       Preparation of       Program of           Program of            Program of
Colleges       materials.            materials.           lectures,            lectures,             lectures,
Traliing of 200      Program of           essays and           essays and            essays arnd
key persons.         lectures,            contests in           contests in          contests in
Program of lec-      essays and           100 colleges.         100 colleges.        100 colleges.
tures, eseays and   contest;s in
contests in 100      100 colleges.
colleges.
2. Adult           Training of 1000    Traininsg of 1000    Training of 1000    Training of 1000    Training of 1000
Education      adult education       adult education      adult education      adult education       adult education
(KANFED)       workers.             workers.              workers,             workers.             workers.
Preparation of       Preparationi of
materials.           materials.
3. Women 's        Orientation of        Orientation of       Orientatiotn of      Orientation of        Orientatioin of
Organizations  Mahiiasamajam         Mahillaaamajmun      Mahilasamajam        Mahilasamajam        Mahilasamajam
(Mahila-       members at 450       membern at 450        menbers at 450       members at 450       members at 450
samajiems)    camps.                camps.               camps.               camps.               camps.



TABLE 12
INDIA: THLD POPULAION P&aJEcT
nWLDQI A h : tNL4ATION, EJCATIC   NI ChUNICAI10N
1984-85             1985-88              196657               1967-68              198-869
1. Orientation    24 district           24 district          24 district          24 district         24 district
Trsinirig      Laval CAS            level to".           level c .            level cos.          level cas.
Cm"            640 NC/QC            72 subdivisions)    72 subdivisionsl    72 aubdivisiocsl    72 subdivisionsl
level cqs.          level csws.          level c_s.           level Owe.           level cPs.
640 FIC/OCJ level   640  lC/CHC level   640 FC/CHC level   640 IH/CHC level
cqs.                c_5.                 cMs.                 cls.
1200  y level       1200 SHC lel         1200 SC Leval        1200 SHC level
CtA.                CA".                 Cav.                 cqs.
2. Extensiot       Production of        Reductiot snd        Productica of       Reduction snd        Reduction snd
Educatlou      2682 health          purcha  of 16 m.  2682 health             purchss  of 16 -.  purchase of 16 m.
education kits.     film.                educatioa kits,      film.                film.
Reduction sgo        Production ad       Reduction *d         Production and       Production and
purchs e of 16 _.  purche of film-   purchse of 16 _m.  purchase of film-   purchase of fila-
films.              strips.              film.                strips,              strips.
Production and                           Production aod
purchase of fil_-                        purchsea of film-
strips.                                  strips.
3. Mass Yedia    Production of          Production of        Production of       Production of        Production of
film, slides,       film, slides,        films, slides,       film, slides,        film, slides,
radio mterisle,    rsdio materials,    radio Materials,    radio materials,    radio materisis,
folders, posters,   folders, posters.   folders, posters,   folders, posters,   foldes, posters.
lnovative ca-       Innovative cam-
paigos.             PSigos.
4. Training        Traooirg of M0M
staff, district,
subdivision, block
snd assistant block
HEOC, subcenter
orkers und CHG.
1. Orientation    524 Camp I.           786 Camp II.         1000 Ca   III.                           2310 followeup
Trainirg                            Selective follow-   Selective follow-                         cps.
Camps                               up II.              up III.
2. Cmunity         Display materials   Display materials   Display materials   Books for 1000         Display mterials
Educatiot      for 250 FECs.        for 750 FECa.        for 2000 FECa,      youth libraries,    for 7000 FECs.
Books for 1000      Books for 1000       Books for 1000                           Books for 1000
youth libraries.    youth libraries.    youth libraries.                          youth libraries,
3. Comunity        Subtenter, PHC,      Subcenter, PHC,     Subtenter, NHC,      Subcenter, PHC,    Subeenter, PNC
Involvemet    district level        district level      district level       district level       district level
coittees,           cocittees,           crmittees,           cr_ittees,          ct_ittees,
family welfare      Fasily Welfare       Family Welfare       Family welfare      Family Welfare
Bulletin,           Bulletin,            Bulletin,            Bullatin.            Bulletin.
Special groups.     Special groups.      Special groups.
Extenzlou Edu-     Extension Edu-       Extension Edu-       Extension Edu-       Extension Edu-
cation - 8,         catiotn - 8,         cation - 8,          catiot - 8,         cation - 8,
16 ma,  film,       16 ma.  film,        16 _ma  film,        16 m. film,         16 ma. film,
filmstrips,         filmtrip.,           filmtrips,           filmtrips.          filmtrips.
educational kits,   educational kits,   educational kite.
4. mas Media       Production of        Production of        Production of       Production Of        Production of
film  asd slides,   film  sd slide       film  sod slides,   film  asd slides,   film asd slides.
AIR productions.   AIR productions,    AIR productions.    AIR productions.    AIR productions.
Print Materials.    Print materials.    Print materials.    Print materials.    Print materials.
Innovative cam-    Fair pric  shops    Pldr pric  shops    Fair price shops    Fair price shops
paigna.             displays.            displays.            displays.           displays.
Innovative cam      lnnovative cam-      Innovative caM-      Innovative cam-
paigns.             paigna.              P5ign.               pigt.
5. Training        Training of          Centre organi-      Trairtrg of          Other IlC train-    Trainiig of Family
Fily Education    zers - district        Family Education    iog.                 Education Centre
Centre organi-      level.               Ceentre orgaci-                          organizers -
zers - district     Other IEC train-    zers - FNC level.                         panchayat level
level.              ing.                 Other IC train                          Other IEC traindrg.
Other IEC train-                        ilg.
ing.
6. Pre-Project    Training of ME40,
2 Dpputy ME0s,
4 DHECs Field
trips.
Repairs to
printing press.



- 78 -
CaAi1 I
INDIA: T:[IRD POPUL4TION PRDJECT
KARNATAKA - PRO= ECMANAGEMN ORGANIZATION
I,CHAI e
SECaCY EDUCHON                           S                                           (1ITEF FNEIEER PWD
CHAIR/AN                                   CONTUCTON
/  'WMY HEALTH                      .00
DIRERR (CF                          At I   l              \ 
PUBLIC INISRUCIION                             ) AD D                 - U\Y
(Research & Training)    v'             (PROJELT OJORDINOR)
POP ED. CCXPONEN                                                N
POPULATION CENTER
BaseLire Surveys!
MES/Operational
Researdh
ADITrIONAI, DIRECTC            /
HEALTH AND FAMILY         /
WELFARE           /
(Staffing, training, IEC,
service statistics, and
procurement of w-hicles,
equipnent and furniture)
DISIRICT                                 CONS'IRUClIONT
HEALTH AND FAMILY WELFARE CFFICER _                     CIRCLES
DIS4IICI
PEDJBT (OFFICER



79 -
CAU II
INDIA: MM  PTUTIO PROJECr
1KRA1A: PWJECT M        EN T -GANIZAICN
GDEM    BRAD
a A K
/IRBJ2TEE LF: cDUHI/
DTECRDRY  EXEDUCATIC               r       0IEE U                                IN
fl L __IL  _       aNu KE1ML41AA OALTH HDRa LF
SECRE(TAff                      ANDiWEtriRE SCICMY
DIRMIv CF                                          ehIicM
EDUWMCN                       AuDDTmNL SOMARY
RWEIONAL DI1RECIX         EKXETRUDM           DIRE          G D RlR3
eqLdpm?-n furnif=ture)
BEAEI CLTH  ANT  FLY     CELFAFICERC
DISCrrL3J'rl CFFICER
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____________________________________ E.R 



ACITITI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,, ht aL ilrl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     I
Pre-Poo~~cct Ac                    xtrr.-croo-t~A                 Nd                                                                                                         JAA-r&0
sxTh-tre5 m(325)
3 dlsLrxots                                                                                                    -S            r                                       <        I
A--o    s(32-)                                           i» 
LiT' Q>catrs (o2)                                                             M-,ot'
3 dist>octs                                                                          I
-bros 98)                                     I                                                                 i ,I                      I                               H
:b,orto- 31o-dskI 
to 380 (18)                                                                                               'i            xIIiI H I
Dect im (2403
,-10. Q. -t rs (398)                                                        r' c          m
l,   T orters (3AR) 
CLs   IQarter                                                 t      isi'ocodtos--:VItsoV-                       n X-iiOS    0-s  niccineacosoooa
SCuoostres  (850)                                                              I      s s o < - -                   >-           0~gsjC-s
M.ot ,,rose (78)             i1                                              1    1    1                                          I 
ibtpes (81)trs(7:
Type II    rcer  (78               I I 
TadgCentre (3'                                                   <<1
C.bid Root (1)                          II                                                                                    <
FIE lbost  ()rai                                                          'Vo'l                                25.  -t    'o
50410s100 of Pres()                                             I
P.og   1   bhhp  l                               '             1       1
Fqs1or.ls0sso0                                       I I I1            '        IIt                           



IBRD 17370
t   _   U SSR                    U S. S. R.   l                           so                                                                                        AUGUST 1983
> f t-  (  ,,  -<                                                                      ~~~~~~~~I N D I A
POPULATION PROJECT m
L\                                                                            a&dar  Population Project m project areas
AFGHANISTAN                                                               /                                             Population Project I[ project areas  Ons;9-g
i \-rB Population Project I project areas
SrinOgOr     ~    >                                                        (      u\ (C-p1&.d D-snc3b., /9B02
t-~~~ r   \ s   fS              fr J   ~~~~~~App 51555 arsrdes, nd,hsed by Isd,  fh   State capita Is
a   JAMMU & KASHMIR J'Stat   capitals
~~~~ t                 tS                                              6b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Natio,al copital
v s;<        ,. -...          7 \~-~ APDL sssa  BorA8 Ind, cd by Chii5   '   --District boundaries
/5L  J                                          VA.>                                            - - -State and Union Territory boundaries
;                     D   ~~~~~HIMACHAL-
f N.,.     HIM PRADESHL                                                 -N    International boundaries
(  PRADESH                ~CHINA
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                          sinas  p.,s  Ins1ssdm b ... y 55d
PAKISTAN                    /   Ct,n4,Rort,® ..
f    PU NrA'r 
30-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
/   5   HARYANAg    /           4-\                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A>pp-1.-a ftrder ,.Md-psd by Lh-n     
-., N EPAL                              e                           /        2~Ž
UTTAR  PRADESH                                          BSHUAIM
RAJASTHAN               DSJu -                                                                                       A          /NAGALAND
~~    0ispss~~            r&  Kohins
s_S9    Patnaz  }           MEGHALAYA                 \ ARUNACHAL
9  \(S(t-<  BiHAR-MAANGLADENIPUR PRADESH
2                              \~~~~~~~~~~3    22"~~~~~~~~~~.  1~~~~~~~' ~~~B I H AR                    NGADSH            ?         han,I4
j  -                Ct ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 ~~~~~~Agartola/, y
GUJARAT            \       j              ®                                      k                 WEST                           \MIZORAM
Bhopal                                ..              BENGAL                               r
oos Gndt,inaga               MADHYA   PRADESH                                     ` \   s
\   ')    qi   ) J        {,         ,,~~~~~~~~~~ ORiSSA        4                               §\ ~~~~~B U R M A
-20                               ,v          MAHARASHTRA                                              Bh BT uboneswor ,
jBomboy
Hyderoboad
ANDHRA                                      B 5°              B A      o D
\  .g  fs;oo,,rgt  >:7 PR AD E SH                                   B ,       c       2e.7  G   /'i2.,
A~~~
5E 0                      \ 0X                          1 ig                                                                                  i,¢
KARNATAK                             7 ! Mtslsdrns                                                                      ANDAMAN
's   Ban,.goIog              ,f                                                                                    7 AND
I                               -}¶I-                       7]  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NICOBAR
Msa/sespssa    TAMIL  NADU                                                                                           5N
-70-  - (alehOs                                                                                                 ISLANDS
K                                                                                      (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN505Al
KERAL.A  Ida, id            /r>                                                                                     IDA
Trsvendrru.<msy  (          1       1          KtLOMETERS 0          200         400         o00        800
SRI  8+             MItES a         o00      200      300       460      500           1'
LANKA
Os sap rnhassas '.sor 5 The W544O6*ts5a5055.a* 5 Va-sr55sseo
70                                                                80'                                                                70-
,~~~~~~-  ,t.  ,t



