OFFICIAL         CREDIT NIMBER 1426 IN
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Population Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1426 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      u4 '                    , 198, between
INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Project will be carried out by        the States of
Karnataka and Kerala with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
States of Karnataka and Kerala the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the
State of Karnataka and the State of Kerala;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the State of Karnataka and the State of Kerala of


﻿-2-
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "Karnataka" means the State of Karnataka, a state of
India and includes any successor thereto;
(c) "Kerala" means the State of Kerala, a state of India
and includes any successor thereto;
(d) "the States" mean Karnataka and Kerala;
(e) "Family   Welfare Program" means    the State's family
planning and maternal and child health care services;
(f) "Fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year; and
(g) "Project Districts" mean the areas comprising the
districts of Belgaum, Bidar, Bijapur, Dharwad, Gulbarga and
Raichur in Karnataka and the districts of Idukki, Malappuram,
Palghat and Wynad in Kerala.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The Association    agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 66,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil wor"s required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date,
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1994, and ending November 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the States to perform in


﻿-4-
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the
States to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the States in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for development assistance to the States of
India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tions on the part of either of the States under the Project
Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that either
of the States will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and the State concerned.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 5 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by each of the States, and
is legally binding upon each of them in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.02. The date          3  '7              is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIR.S
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
B  Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works              37,860,000         60%
(2) Equipment                 8,060,000         100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex- factory
cost) and 70% of
local expendi-
tures for other
items procured
locally
(3) Furniture and             4,270,000         60%
vehicles
(4) Staff salaries            7,570,000         40%
(5) Consultants'              1,430,000         40%
services and
training
(6) Other operation           3,320,000         40%
and maintenance
costs
(7) Unallocated               3,790,000
TOTAL         66,300,000


﻿- 8 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of the
Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 670,000, may
be made in respect of Categories 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 on account of
expenditures made before that date but after July 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.


﻿-9-
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in the fur-
ther development and implementation of its voluntary family
welfare program in the States, and consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:
In Kerala, the construction, upgrading, furnishing and
equipping of about 570 subcenters, about 160 health assistant
(female) quarters, about 10 community health centers, about 20
primary bealth centers, about 80 subsidiary health centers, about
20 taluk hospitals, about 240 quarters for medical officers and
other health staff, 1 vehicle workshop, 1 equipment workshop,
about 3 multipurpose worker (female) training schools, about 4
multipurpose worker (male) training schools, 1 female health
supervisor hostel, one cold storage room and improvements to the
offset press facility.
Part B:
In Karnataka, the construction, upgrading, furnishing and
equipping of about 650 subcenters, about 170 health assistant
(female) quarters, about 30 community health centers, about 100
primary health centers, about 20 dormitory blocks for primary
health centers, about 240 subsidiary health centers, 1 health and
family welfare traini-g center and 1 health assistant (female)
training school, 2 equipment workshops, 2 vehicle workshops,
about 1,500 quarters for medical officers and other health staff,
about six multipurpose worker (female) hostels, two cold storage
rooms, and the upgrading of the Population Center at Bangalore.
Part C:
The provision of additional staff, medical supplies and
vehicles for delivery of services and program management.
Part D:
The provision of incremental inputs for training and
retraining of staff.


﻿- 11 -
Part E:
The provision of additional staff, vehicles, equipment and
materials   for    information,   education   and    communication
activities.
Part F:
The strengthening of the monitoring and evaluation systems
of the States, and the carrying out of operations research.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1989.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of Fl e59
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


