Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1'-71 1 9-Rt
REPORT AND RECOMMI .NI) \I IO)N
OF: 'l IF
PRFSI[)EN'I I: 'T'I,
IN'I'I.RNA'I'IONAI. BANK FOR RE(CONS I RC;('Tl()N AND D)IVI`I()PML.N'I'
T'O T' IFE
EIXFCUTIVE DIRECT(IORS
ON A
PROPoSFI) STRUIC'I'TURAL Al)JLIS I MvllN'I lOAN
IN' THE AMOUtiNT )'0  S$6 ( N) i MI.l()N
THE RU SSIAN lI II)IERATIO()N
Mav 16. 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



RUSSIAN FEDERATION - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currency Equivalents
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit          Ruble (Rbl)
US$1    =    Rbl 5744.(
Average Exchange Rates
Ruble per US$1
Period Average         End of Period
1993                  1,018                  1,247
1994                  2,212                  3,550
1995                  4,566                  4,640
Weights And Measures
Metric System
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Director: Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief:  Pradeep Mitra, EC3C2
Responsible Staff:  Ulrich Zachau (Task Manager, EC3C2), Igor Artemiev (PSD), Vladimir Konovalov
(EC3MO), Mari Kuraishi (EC3C2), Friedrich Peloschek (LEGEC), Gary Stuggins
(EC31V), and Dennis Whittle (EC3C2).
Contributors:  Robert E. Anderson (EMT), Alain Bertaud (TWURD), Harry Broadman (EC3C2), Nimfa
Campos (EC3C2), Vladimir Capelik (EC3MO), Vladimir Drebentsov (EC3MO), Jurgen
Franz (EC31A), Victor Gabor (EC3C2), James Guyton (EC3C2), Lev M. Freinkman
(EC3C2), Jane Holt (EC3MO), Olga Kaganova (Urban Institute, Consultant), Ruben
Makhmurian (EC3MO, Interpreter), Michelle Mancesidor (EC3C2), Larisa Markes
(EC3C2), Jorge Martinez (Fiscal Consultant), Claudia Morgenstern (CCMDI), Alexander
Morozov (EC3MO), Jacques Toureille (EC3 IA), Natasha Veligura (EC3 MO), Peggy
Wilson (EC31V), and Suzy Yoon (EC3C2).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADR   -  American Depository Receipt
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CBR   -  Central Bank of Russia
CIS  -  Commonwealth of Independent States
EBF  -  Extrabudgetary Fund
EDI  -  Economic Development Institute
EFF  -  Extended Fund Facility
FEC   -  Federal Energy Commission
FSRNMC   -  Federal Regulatory Commission for Communications
FSRNMT  -  Federal Regulatory Commission for Transportation
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GKI  -  State Committee for the Management of State Property
GKO   -  Treasury Bill
GOR   -  Government of Russia
GW   -  Gigawatt
IAS  -  International Accounting Standards
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR  -  Implementation Completion Report
IFC   -  International Finance Corporation
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
IPO   -  Initial Public Offering
LDC   -  Local Distribution Company
LIBOR   -  London Inter-Bank Offer Rate
MICEX   -  Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange
MIGA   -  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOE  -  Ministry of Economy
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MOP  -  Memorandum of the President
NIS  -  Newly Independent States
RAO EES  -  Joint Stock Company- Electrification and Electricity Supply
RFCSCM   -  Russian Federal Commission on Securities and the Capital Market
RTGS  -  Real-Time Gross Settlement
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL  -  Sector Adjustment Loan
STS  -  State Tax Service
TA   -  Technical Assistance
VAT  -  Value Added Tax
VChK   -  Emergency Tax Commission
WTO   -  World Trade Organization
Government Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:                   Russian Federation
Amount:                    US$600 million
Terms:                      Payable in 17 years, including five years of grace at the Standard
LIBOR-based interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:             0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed SAL would assist the Government to undertake the
structural reforms necessary to lay the foundation for renewed economic
growth and to maintain macroeconomic stabilization over the medium-
term. It would also provide the financing necessary to provide an
adequate level of public services during the difficult fiscal transition that
has characterized most former centrally planned economies.
The proposed operation would support economy-wide structural reforms
that (a) advance competitive enterprise and market development and
impose financial discipline on the enterprise sector; and (b) have a major
direct impact macro-fiscal stability. It may focus on private sector
development, natural monopoly regulation and restructuring, banking
reforms, and fiscal management.
Benefits:                   The loan would encourage and enable the federal government to proceed
forcefully and effectively with key structural reforms to sustain
macroeconomic stability and stimulate renewed growth. The substantial
amounts of low-cost, non-inflationary budget financing provided by the
SAL would confer large financial savings as well as large economic
benefits. The reforms supported would increase efficiency across a
range of sectors by helping create a more competitive and open private
sector-oriented economy.
Risks:                     There are substantial political, institutional, and economic risks
associated with this operation, as with other operations in the Bank's
Russia portfolio. These risks have been carefully addressed during
project preparation but remain high. The risk of macroeconomic
instability has been addressed by coordinating closely with the IMF's
ongoing EFF program. The risk of erratic commitment to reforms has
been addressed by designing the SAL as a single-tranche operation



based on prior actions. The risk of inadequate implementation of the
reforms will be addressed through intensive supervision.
Schedule of Disbursement:   Single tranche disbursement immediately after loan effectiveness
(expected in June 1997)
Rate of Return:               Not Applicable
Poverty Category:             Not Applicable
Project ID Number:            RU-PE-49203
Map:                          IBRD No. 27188R
The World Bank team wishes to thank the Russian authorities, and in particular their counterparts in the
Presidential and Government Administrations, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, GKI, and the Central
Bank, for their collaboration in preparing the proposed SAL. The loan and this report build on the authorities 'own
work as outlined in the Government's "Medium-Term Program for 1997-2000. Restructuring and Economic
Growth. " The team would like to thank their colleagues in the Russia team of the International Monetary Fund, the
USAlD funded team offiscal advisors under Prof Robert Conrad, and the IRIS-funded team of expert advisors on
natural monopoly reforms for their collaboration. The team would also like to express its gratitude to the peer
reviewers of this operation, Messrs. Alan Gelb (AFR VP) and Hafez Ghanem (EC4C2), as well as Messrs. Michael
Carter (EC3MO), Ira Lieberman (PSD), Costas Michalopoulos (EC3DR), John Nellis (PSD), and Marcelo
Selowsky (ECA VP) for their overall guidance and support. Loan preparation work has been partlyffunded by a
grant from the PHRD Fund of the Government of Japan.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Table of Contents
PART  I. COUNTRY  CONTEXT ............................................................I
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM ...........................................3
A) General Objectives ............................................................3
B) Reform of Natural Monopolies ....................................4
C) Private Sector Development .................................                                                                10
D) Fiscal Reform .................................                                                                              16
E) Banking Sector Reform ....................                                                         .. 20
PART III. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN .............................................. 22
A) Rationale and Objectives .................................                                                                  22
B) Benefits and Risks .................................... 24
C) Board Conditions and Supervision .................................                                                           26
D) Implementation and Technical Assistance .................................                                                   26
E) Financial Arrangements .................................                                                                    26
F) Coordination with the IMF .................................                                                                 28
G) Poverty Implications .................................                                                                       29
H) Environmental Impact .................................                                                                       29
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION .......................................                                                                            30



ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1       Main Economic Indicators
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Table 3: External Financing
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance
Attachment 2       Status of Bank Group Operations and Status of IFC Operations
Attachment 3       Timetable of Key Processing Events
Attachment 4       Letter of Development Policy
Attachment 5       Policy Reforms Program Matrix
BOXES
Box 1              Board Conditions for the SAL
MAE
IBRD No.           27188R



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to the
Russian Federation for US$600 million to help finance a structural adjustment program. The loan would
be at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US Dollar single currency loans, with a maturity
of seventeen years, including five years of grace.
2.     This report should be read in conjunction with Report No. 16549-RU, "Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank Group for the Russian Federation," dated May 6, 1997. The CAS
describes the country and economic context in detail, along with the proposed Bank Group program for
FY 98/99 (including IFC, MIGA, and EDI). It also discusses experience to date with the portfolio, risks,
creditworthiness considerations, and cooperation with other international agencies.
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT'
3.     Russia's transition to a market economy has been both wrenching and chaotic, requiring changes
more disruptive by an order of magnitude than those experienced by most Bank borrowers. Over the last
several years, policy making has often focused on short-term initiatives and been driven by an intense
competition among frequently changing political factions. Implementation of reforms has fluctuated
from boldly market-oriented (e.g., capital markets development) to being captured by vested interest
groups (e.g., case-by-case privatization) to near stagnation (e.g., agriculture). Average annual inflation
remained high for most of this period, reaching a peak above 1300 percent during 1992 and falling below
100 percent only in 1996; measured GDP has fallen by 40 percent in real terms since 1991 and still fell
by 6 percent in 1996; and there has been a dramatic increase in poverty, and various surveys indicate
that, despite some recent improvements, 25-35 percent of the population are still living in poverty.
4.    Notwithstanding the short-term fluctuations in policymaking and the dramatic decline in output,
it is clear that a major economic transformation has taken place in Russia over the last several years.
Over 70 percent of GDP is now produced in the private sector, prices and trade have been essentially
liberalized; the monthly rate of inflation has dropped to below 2 percent on average for the past 12
months; and a trade surplus of $23 billion was recorded in 1996. Recently, Russia returned to the
international capital markets with two Eurobond issues of $1 billion and DM2 billion, respectively.
5.    The last twelve months have been a period of gradual political and economic stabilization,
setting the stage for a resumption of economic growth in the second half of 1997 and 1998. In elections
held in June-July 1996, the Russian people broadly endorsed continued progress toward a market
economy under the leadership of President Yeltsin, and the war in Chechnya has ended. On the
macroeconomic front, Russia complied with all agreed quantitative targets under the EFF arrangement
I Due to differences in the definitions and methodology underlying the macroeconomic statistics of the Russian
Federation and the World Bank, the specific macroeconomic data, estimates, and projections in this Report of the
President and the CAS may differ from those in the Government's Letter of Development Policy which is attached.



- 2 -
with the IMF for the end of 1996. Inflation continues to slow down, and the exchange rate continues to
appreciate slowly in real terms, remaining comfortably within the stronger half of its preannounced
sliding band.
6.     Although basic financial stabilization has now been achieved, it remains fragile. Sustained
macro-stabilization and the realization of dynamic private-sector led growth-the key to raising general
living standards and easing growing social tensions-will depend on the implementation of fundamental
structural reforms. Making the necessary political choices in support of such reforms has long proved
exceedingly difficult in Russia. In his State of the Union address of March 6, 1997, the President
strongly reaffirmed his commitment to completing stabilization and accelerating structural reforms.
Subsequently, the President and Prime Minister restructured the Government to make it more responsive
to carrying out this agenda.
7.     Further fiscal consolidation is a prerequisite for economic growth: it is essential to reduce
inflationary expectations, encourage households and investors to move out of hard currency holdings,
help reduce real domestic interest rates, and sustain overall macro-financial stabilization. Reducing the
federal budget deficit (still between 7 and 8 percent of GDP in 1996, according to various preliminary
estimates) and achieving a sustainable fiscal balance will remain an enormous challenge, given
persistently poor tax collections (less than 12 percent of GDP in 1996). The poor revenue performance
has caused several delays in the monthly tranches of the EFF. It has undermined orderly fiscal
management and led to the draconian sequestration of expenditures, contributing to an increase in budget
arrears and non-payment of wages and pensions. Moreover, most of the resulting budget deficit has been
financed domestically, which has contributed to high real interest rates (inter-bank lending rates still
varied around 25-30 percent in real terms in the first four months of 1997), increased the cost of
domestic debt service for the budget, and crowded out lending to the private sector, the engines of
Russian economic growth.
8.     The need for decisive fiscal reform to address the basic causes of the weak revenue performance
is urgent. Such reform will entail: (i) removing remaining serious distortions in the overall tax structure;
and (ii) dramatically improving the efficiency of tax administration. In addition, several large and
currently inefficient expenditure programs need to be rationalized, especially in the areas of housing,
pensions, and defense; the budget management system and process needs to be strengthened; and inter-
governmental fiscal reforms need to correct mismatches between expenditure responsibilities and
revenue assignments and encourage fiscal responsibility and the implementation of key structural
reforms by subnational governments. The measures included in the Government's 1997 reform program
supported by the SAL and EFF programs will be important steps toward this end, but they will require
considerable follow-through and will take time to implement and translate into significantly stronger
revenues on a sustained basis.
9.     Provided there is sustained macro-fiscal stabilization, growth will be propelled by reforms that
introduce competition and enhance the efficiency of the country's huge, monopolistic energy and
infrastructure (transport and telecommunications) sectors; development of the private sector; and
banking sector reforms. Reform of the so-called natural monopolies will have large positive spillovers
throughout the economy and thus make a crucial contribution to renewed productivity. The realization of
dynamic private sector growth-through efficiency gains from competition and restructuring as well as
from new investment-will depend mainly on improvements in the overall business environment. Banking
sector reforms-including dealing with illiquid and insolvent banks (including a law on bank bankruptcy
and liquidation and a prudent deposit protection system), improving bank accounting and supervision,
and payment systems reform-will be essential to facilitate the financial deepening that is needed both



- 3 -
for the consolidation of stabilization on the monetary and credit side and for effective financial
intermediation as a basis for investment and growth.
10.    On the external front, foreign trade has been a bright spot in Russia's economic performance
over the last five years. Its current account balance amounted to 2.8 percent of GDP in 1996, with
exports (dominated by energy resources and other raw materials) outpacing imports by $20 billion. The
composition of trade has also changed substantially, and CIS countries account now for just 20-30
percent of Russia's exports and imports. Russia has continued making good progress in liberalizing its
foreign trade regime-although a program of "oil export for state needs" reemerged and will need to be
eliminated again-and average statutory import tariffs are below 15 percent. Trade liberalization,
greater access to hard currencies, and the successful implementation of an exchange rate corridor in
1995-96 together have had a profound effect on the domestic price structure and the real exchange rate.
The steady real appreciation of the ruble over the period 1992-96 fundamentally reflects the growing
convergence of domestic and world prices. It has also led to a reemergence of protectionist pressures
(most recently with respect to poultry and alcohol imports), which have been largely resisted so far
except in few isolated cases. The Government hopes to complete accession to the WTO in 1998, which
would help to preserve Russia's basically liberal trade regime.
11.    The main medium-term scenario in the 1998-99 CAS assumes "good policies," that is, financial
stabilization and Russia's integration with world capital markets are expected to continue. Over the next
three years, a combination of revenue increases and spending cuts is forecast to reduce the budget deficit
by more than half, to less than 3 percent of GDP. On this basis, inflation is projected to continue falling
(to around 6 percent a year after 1999), and the ruble is expected to continue appreciating in real terms.
The resulting restoration of confidence in the economy is expected to lead to an expansion of foreign
investment, a slow-down and eventual reversal of net capital outflows, a reduction in real interest rates
(to roughly 6 percent by the year 2000), and progressive financial deepening (growth of banking sector
assets as a share of GDP, which stood around only 25-30 percent in late 1996). All this will serve to
support a gradual recovery of output as Russia copes with the ongoing challenges of deepening market
reforms and industrial restructuring.
12.   In this scenario, output growth is projected to turn around by the middle of 1997, with zero year-
on-year growth in 1997, positive growth in 1998, and a projected trend growth of 6 percent annually
thereafter. This would allow a recovery of output to just below 1991 levels by 2005. The recovery will
be driven by a further expansion in services (trade, telecommunications, banking), export oriented
industries (oil, gas, metallurgy), power, and later on housing, with a growing positive effect on overall
factor productivity. Investment is forecast to increase substantially, growing at an average annual rate
around 9 percent for a few years, although gross investment as a share of GDP is expected to rise only
slightly due to lower than average price increases for investment goods.
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
A. General Objectives
13.    The Government's medium-term program, submitted to the State Duma on March 6, 19972 notes
that the first phase of reforms following the collapse of central planning is substantially completed, and
2 "Medium-Term Reform Program for 1997-2000: Restructuring and Economic Growth"



- 4 -
that Russia has become predominantly a market economy. Major progress has been made in
liberalization of prices and trade; a mass privatization process has been completed, such that over 70
percent of GDP is produced by the private sector; and inflation has been reduced and the ruble stabilized.
Building on these achievements, the Government intends to take measures to restore growth, which it
sees as a prerequisite for reducing poverty and addressing other social problems.
14.    Fundamental restructuring of key sectors of the economy, envisaged to take 10-15 years, will be
key to the resumption of growth. The Government program argues that structural reform must be
underpinned by: a stable macroeconomic environment; increased investment; reallocation of assets and
resources currently tied up in non-productive enterprises; and deep institutional transformations required
to make the market economy operate efficiently.
15.    Although the medium-term program describes policy directions throughout the economy, the
immediate priority-which would be supported under the SAL-is to focus on reforms that will
contribute most directly to the resumption of growth and the maintenance of macroeconomic stability.
These will require action in the following areas:
*  Reform of Natural Monopolies
*  Private Sector Development (privatization and enterprise restructuring, urban land and real estate,
capital markets)
*  Fiscal Reform
*  Banking Reform
Key elements of the program in these areas are discussed below.3
B. Reform of Natural Monopolies
16.    Context. Price reforms and the competitive restructuring of natural monopoly services in the
electricity, gas, and railways sectors will have very substantial efficiency gains with large, positive,
economy-wide spillovers and will be critically important for medium-term growth. Natural monopoly
reforms need to focus on four areas: (a) pricing should better reflect cost and demand conditions; (b) arrears
should be reduced and payment discipline strengthened (especially in the energy sector); (c) arms-length
regulatory oversight, where appropriate, should be enhanced; and (d) sectors should be demonopolized, i.e.,
policy barriers to new entry should be reduced so as to allow for the competitive provision of services
where monopoly is not "natural." The Government has initiated reform steps in all four areas. The 1997
reform program will concentrate mainly on price reform, continue to address the arrears problem and
strengthen needed regulatory oversight, and develop the agenda for, and in some cases implement, the
restructuring process of demonopolization.
17.    Russia's electric power sector has an installed generating capacity of about 210 GW, nearly
50% more than the peak demand. This condition resulted from the decline in demand of about 20% over
the past five years. The asset base is aging and considerable investment in deferred maintenance, life
extension and replacement will be needed over the next decade. Despite the over-capacity situation,
supply problems persist in some regions due to the huge buildup of payment arrears. The arrears
3Two other key elements of the Government's reform program, social sector adjustment and agricultural reform,
are described in the CAS. They are not covered under the present SAI. operation, but, as noted in the CAS, the Bank
and Government are currently preparing separate sector adjustment operations to address these issues.



- 5 -
problem also manifests itself in non-payments to the Government as the power sector owes 9.5 trillion
rubles to local and federal budgets and 1.7 trillion rubles to the state pension fund.
18.    The power sector is largely controlled by the corporate entity RAO EES Rossii (RAO). RAO
owns much of the generation system, and all of the transmission and dispatch systems. RAO also has a
controlling equity stake in most of the regional electricity monopolies (Energos), which are responsible
for the distribution of electricity on a regional basis. The 72 Energos own the smaller generation stations
and the distribution networks within their regions. Regulation has recently been established at both the
federal and regional levels. However, the institutional capacity and independence of the regulators is
weak.
19.   In 1992 the Government partially privatized the power sector under its mass privatization
program. RAO was established as a holding company for the Energos, with an ownership stake of 51%
in the majority of them. The remaining 49% is owned by the employees and management of the
Energos. Only a small share of RAO was initially privatized in 1992, with the Government gradually
selling off further stock and reducing its ownership stake to the present level of 52 percent. The Russian
stock market has assigned a low value to all of the Russian power sector entities, relative to similar
entities abroad, with a much higher value assigned to many of the Energos than it has to RAO. Brokers
ascribe this low valuation to a lack of confidence in existing management, lack of transparency, weak
regulation and large arrears (less than three quarters of electricity and heat bills were collected in 1996).
20.   In the aggregate, electricity prices have been set at a level to fully finance operating costs and
1 00% of new investments. However, rates charged to households (where demand is relatively inelastic)
have been kept artificially low at about 25% of the cost of supply, while prices to industry (where
demand is elastic) have been set high in order to cross-subsidize household consumption. This structure
of prices is economically inefficient: the weighted average tariff for industrial users is too high given the
low cost of fuel, low labor costs and a nearly zero cost of capital (as much of the asset base was
originally funded as a budget transfer). Moreover, while this price structure is intended to achieve equity
and reduce poverty, these objectives would be better met through targeted direct transfers as part of the
authorities' overall social programs or, where adequate targeting of transfers is impossible to implement
under present conditions, through instruments such as life-line pricing.
21.    The Government has assigned a high priority to addressing the problems of the power sector.
The goal of the program is to increase the efficiency of the sector's operation by establishing a pattern of
prices reflecting economic costs and relative scarcities (demand and supply over time), improving
regulatory oversight, improving the quality of service, and operational restructuring. The Bank is
providing technical assistance to the Government to help define and implement a comprehensive reform
agenda along these lines. The reforms include the establishment of a competitive market for electricity,
where feasible, complemented by enhancing the effectiveness of the regulatory regime for the segments
of the power market where the competitive provision of service is suboptimal. Structural, financial,
institutional capacity building and ownership issues will all be addressed under these reforms.
22.    Russia is the world's largest supplier of natural gas, accounting for over 25% of global
production, 34% of proven reserves, and 40% of inter-regional gas trade. The industry is dominated by
Gazprom, which controls 95% of the production and all of the transmission and export trade. Gazprom's
annual profits are estimated at approximately $3 billion on gross revenues of approximately $18 billion
and assets of $80 billion. The state owns a 40 percent share in Gazprom; most of the balance is held by
employees and Russian investors. Local supply is handled by roughly 300 local distribution companies
(LDCs), which are generally majority owned by their employees, and which were formed in the latter



- 6 -
part of 1993 as part of the restructuring of Rosstroigazifikazia, the former state body responsible for gas
distribution networks. The financial position of the LDCs is weak, however, due to nonpayments,
distortions in the tariff structures, and encroachments on their service areas. As a result, Gazprom has
acquired significant ownership stakes in some of the LDCs, and there is pressure within parts of the
Government to grant Gazprom an increased mandate in the distribution area.
23.    Like the power sector, the gas sector has been a focal point of the arrears crisis of the last several
years. Gazprom estimates that it is currently owed $1 1 billion by its customers (many in other CIS
countries), and in turn owes approximately $3 billion in tax arrears to the budget. Wholesale gas prices
are set by the government, based on Gazprom's reported costs, and until recently were uniform
throughout the country. Distribution margins for industrial customers were set at a fixed percentage of
wholesale prices, while margins to residential customers have alternated between federally mandated
levels, and cost-based margins set by local regulatory agencies.
24.    The Government's medium-term reform program for the gas sector is to introduce competition
where possible by ensuring third-party access to the transmission system and direct contractual
arrangements between independent gas producers and gas consumers, and by holding tenders for the
right to develop new gas fields. In addition, major changes in the gas pricing system are proposed,
including steps to increase transparency, improve the regulatory process, and reduce cross-subsidies
among regions and customer groups.
25.    Railway traffic has declined precipitously in the last five years and is not likely to recover to
previous levels until well into the next century. Freight traffic alone has fallen by half since 1991. At the
same time, the railway's present structure impedes its ability to reduce costs and develop the sort of
commercial orientation and service quality demanded by a market economy. The decline in traffic and
high fixed costs, compounded by the need to cover losses in intercity and urban passenger services, has
seriously undermined the financial performance of the system. The main response to these problems has
been for the industry to raise tariffs, but this response has led to further declines in freight traffic.
26.    To date few efforts have been made to restructure or cut costs on the railway system.
Additionally, the Ministry of Finance has indicated that it is not able to compensate the railways for
passenger losses resulting from federally mandated passenger exemptions or low passenger fares.
Moreover, from 1990 to early 1997, rail rates have been increasing several times faster than general
inflation, and they are now substantially higher than economic costs. These trends suggest that Russia's
competitiveness in coal, metals, timber and other industries dependent upon the railway will continue to
be reduced by the railways' high tariffs and lack of productive focus or commercial orientation.
27.    Railways freight revenues are used only in part to cover economic costs. A large share of freight
revenues serves to subsidize passenger losses, build houses, construct new lines that may be uneconomic,
and invest in new passenger cars for loss-making services. In 1991, 7% of freight revenues were used to
cover passenger service losses; by end 1996, this figure had risen to 21% (Rbl 14.5 trillion or nearly $3
billion). According to an analysis by the Ministry of Railways, the bulk of the subsidy from freight is
used to cover losses associated with the suburban passenger services, for which revenues covered only
15% of costs in 1994 and (according to existing government regulations) any subsidy should be financed
from regional budgets. In addition, there is a cross-subsidy from freight to intercity passenger traffic, for
which tariffs covered 58% of costs in 1994. Despite the policy of maintaining passenger tariffs at
artificially low levels, overall passenger traffic (in terms of passenger-km) declined by 13% in 1996 over
1995.



- 7 -
28.    In addition, the financial ability of the railways to make investments to reverse the trends by
modernizing rail service is increasingly in doubt. The railways lost Rbl 1.6 trillion in 1996 and are
projecting a loss of Rbl 9.6 trillion for 1997. Since the railways are presently organized as a monopoly
with little federal oversight, there is a need for the federal government to intervene by preventing further
"real" rate increases and to press the railways to restructure instead. Over the medium-term, the
Government needs to take action to: (a) separate intercity passenger operations from freight; (b)
eliminate all passenger subsidies or at least to eliminate cross subsidization of passenger losses by freight
traffic; (c) devolve responsibility for commuter rail services to subnational governments; (e) divest and
privatize rail freight operations where viable and where there is a competitive framework and otherwise
regulate freight service; and (f) avoid unjustified capital investments and develop an overall railway
investment plan based on economic priorities.
29.    Price Reform. The Government's priority objective in natural monopoly reform is to introduce
pricing practices for electricity, gas, and rail services that will encourage efficient production and usage.
A fundamental issue the Government must face in this regard is that pricing in natural monopolies is
based on Soviet-style accounting, which fails to appropriately treat key cost components such as
depreciation and prevents providers from recovering the actual cost of service. In response to this, the
Government will attempt to move toward modern pricing principles used in market economies.
30.    The Government committed to price reform in the natural monopoly industries in its Medium-
Term Program. By June 30, 1997, the Government will establish principles and procedures for the
pricing of electricity, natural gas, and railways services. With a view to encouraging efficient production
and usage of these services, these pricing principles will: (i) allow suppliers to recover prudently
incurred fixed and variable costs; (ii) reflect differences in cost between customer classes and geographic
regions; and (iii) over time adjust to reflect the evolution of costs and demand conditions. To facilitate
effective regulation, detailed price reform studies have been initiated for each subsector, and the
Government will prepare a list of information and reporting requirements for the regulated entities
(including details on proposed investment and the structure and cost of financing).
31.    Cross-subsidies are currently the most acute pricing issue. They impose artificially high costs on
industrial production while inefficiently subsidizing households. Under its natural monopoly reform
program supported by the SAL, the Government approved in early April 1997 an ambitious action plan
for the phased elimination of cross-subsidies among consumer groups for all natural monopoly services
(GoR Resolution No. 389). In addition, the following measures are to be taken in each sector:
*  Earlier this year, the FEC submitted to the Governnent a detailed proposal to decrease cross-
subsidies for electricity consumption. By the end of July 1997, the Government will introduce a
two-block tariff for household electricity consumption.
*  As a concrete initial step toward gas price reform, in February 1997 wholesale natural gas prices
were modestly differentiated across geographic regions based on production and transportation costs.
Building on this, the Government will publish official rules and procedures for setting differentiated
wholesale prices for natural gas by June 30, 1997. By September 30, 1997 the Government will
issue a resolution announcing that the regional wholesale natural gas price differential between the
minimum and maximum price will be increased from the current level of 12 percent to at least 25
percent effective December 1, 1997. Until a competitive market for gas production is introduced,
wholesale gas prices will be regulated: (a) at the city gate, including separately set tariffs of gas
transmission; or, (b) as a combination of well-head prices and gas transmission prices, each set
separately.



- 8 -
* With regard to the railways sector, by September 30, 1997, the Government will reduce average rates
for freight (total revenues divided by total ton-kilometers) by 5 percent compared to the rates
effective in September 1997. These reductions in freight rates will be financed by increasing
passenger fares, reducing costs, and/or eliminating fare privileges for selected passenger groups.
The Govemment will explicitly include in the 1998 budget reimbursements to the railways for any
remaining federally mandated fare privileges for selected passenger groups.
32.    Elimination of cross-subsidization will lead to further increases in energy prices and railway
tariffs paid by households. This may have a substantial poverty impact. To mitigate this the
Government has mandated municipal authorities to set housing allowances programs which are to
provide targeted mean-tested income transfers to families with housing expenditures exceeding 15% of
their gross money income. Most municipalities have been running such programs since 1995. In
addition, to improve local capacity for delivering social assistance, the Government has decided recently
to pilot a few alternative schemes for administering universal mean-tested poverty benefits. These pilots
will be supported through the Bank's proposed Social Protection Assistance Adjustment Loan.
33.    Reducing Payment Arrears. The Government's second objective is to reduce payment arrears
on electricity and natural gas utility bills and improve the flow of payments in the fuel and energy sector.
Energy providers are faced with the problem of being unable to cut off supply to so-called "strategic
customers;" such customers can still obtain services even if they are in arrears. This has created a chain
of payment arrears which have multiplied through the economy and has also led to increased tax arrears
to the budget. The arrears have also in many cases seriously affected the financial viability of local
utility companies. The original list of "strategic customers" was long and included defense-related as
well as many other companies. In January 1997 the Government substantially reduced the list of
"strategic customers"; entities taken off the list account for the large bulk of all energy deliveries to
"strategic customers" as previously defined. Virtually all remaining "strategic customers" are entities
responsible for Russia's external and internal security. Earlier legal provisions that prohibited suppliers
form cutting off service to classes of customers have also been revoked, including most recently
provisions under Government Resolution No. 307 of April 7, 1994.
34.    Additionally, the Government will use the regulatory process and corporate governance
mechanisms to encourage strict enforcement of payment discipline. To improve the flow of payments
and reduce arrears in the energy sector, the Government has made adequate provisions in the 1997
budget to pay for the fuel and energy consumption of the remaining "strategic customers" who may not
be disconnected for nonpayment, as listed in Government Decree 74, issued January 28, 1997. The
Govemment will ensure that there are no arrears to energy suppliers on account of the remaining
strategic customers.
35.   Introducing Competition Where Monopoly is Not "Natural " The Government's third
objective is to promote more competitive market structures for the energy and infrastructure industries.
To be sure, throughout the world many of these industries were once thought to be naturally
monopolistically structured. But due to changes in technology and expansion of markets, today many of
these industries increasingly possess competitive attributes. As a result, services can be provided more
efficiently when there are multiple suppliers rather than a single supplier. In Russia, the electricity, gas,
and rail sectors are dominated by vertically integrated monopoly providers who are in a position to
inflate costs, overprice services, and restrict network access. To help rectify this, the Government will
begin a step-by-step restructuring of these industries with a view to demonopolization and eventual
privatization of competitive segments. An Interministerial Commission under the former Minister of



-9-
Economy completed a report4 in early 1997 with specific recommendations for restructuring the
electricity, natural gas, and railways sectors. On April 28, 1997, Presidential Decree No. 426 was issued
adopting the structural reform principles for the electricity, natural gas, and railways sectors for 1997 as
outlined in that report and submitted to the Government as a concept paper in late March 1997. The
decree instructs the Government to elaborate a detailed medium-term restructuring program to be
adopted by a government resolution by June 30, 1997.
36.   In the power sector, the formation of a joint stock company to develop a new generating plant,
with equity participation by several enterprises, including non-power sector entities (mostly completed)
is a first step in the establishment of a competitive power market. The Moscow regional power company
(MosEnergo) issued ADRs and to this end has begun complying with stricter and more transparent
reporting (particularly financial) requirements. In April, 1997, the Government took steps to change the
management of RAO EES Rossii and to ensure that the representative group of interministerial officials
on the Board of RAO have clear instructions to implement governmental policies in the electric power
sector (GoR Resolutions No. 401 of April 1, 1997 and No. 439 of April 22, 1997). The Government has
outlined the following program for the remainder of the year:
*  By September 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution to create an independent non-profit
Wholesale Market Operator to operate the wholesale electricity market, including the dispatch of
electricity from generators and the settlement and clearance of payments, and the Government will
establish a Supervisory Council for the Wholesale Market composed of representatives of market
participants (with no participant having a dominant position). By September 30, 1997, the FEC will
also make public a Wholesale Market Agreement which specifies the duties and responsibilities of
the participants in the wholesale market.
*  By June 30, 1997, the Government will outline general principles (based on a report by the FEC) for
the commercial licensing of enterprises participating in the wholesale market. By August 30, 1997,
the Government will issue a resolution giving the FEC exclusive authority to issue such licenses. By
September 30, 1997, the Government will solicit public comments on drafts of each type of license
and by December 31, 1997, it will make final versions public.
*  By December 31, 1997, the Government will publish a plan to create a sufficient number of
generation companies independent of RAO EES Rossii to establish a competitive wholesale market.
37.   In the natural gas sector, Gazprom's compliance with the reporting requirements for its recent
ADR issue has forced some transparency into its cost and financial accounting systems. With respect to
the remainder of the year:
*  A government resolution will be issued by June 30, 1997 specifying the principles and procedures
for access to the gas transportation network, including the regulatory oversight requirements and the
pricing of transportation services. By June 30, 1997, the Government will create an interministerial
commission to regulate access to the gas transmission network.
*  By December 31, 1997, the Government will delegate the power to implement the regulation of gas
prices for final consumers to the Regional Energy Commissions according to pricing principles and
procedures to be prepared by the FEC.
4 "On Developing Plans for Structural Reforms of Natural Monopolies" submitted to the Government in draft on
January 28, 1997 and in final on March 26, 1997.



- 10-
38.   In railways, the Ministry of Railways will, by December 31, 1997, make public an action plan
for separating passenger and freight services (including accounts) which will identify major assets and
employee groups to be allocated to each business.
39.    Strengthening Regulation. The Government's fourth objective is to develop the institutional
capacity for effective independent regulatory oversight of natural monopoly sectors. This process will
take time. Regulatory Commissions have been established throughout the energy, transport, and
telecommunications sectors. But the clout of these agencies remains weak. The Government has plans
to further strengthen and ensure the independence of these commissions, beginning with those in the
energy sector; a proposed Bank TA loan in the power sector is under preparation to assist with this task.
The groundwork has been laid in the Government's budget to enable the FEC to raise staffing levels
closer to mandated levels.
40.    Over the medium term, to ensure the independence and effectiveness of the regulatory agencies
for energy (FEC), transport (FSRNMT), and the telecommunications (FSRNMC), the Government will
appoint the head of the FSRNMT; will approve the composition of the boards of both the FSRNMT and
FSRNMC; provide adequate financing and office space for the agencies; and ensure that staff and
commissioners of the agencies will not be allowed to receive payments or other financial consideration
from regulated enterprises.
C. Private Sector Development
41.    Dynamic private sector development will be the key to the resumption of sustained growth in
Russia. With price and trade liberalization substantially completed, this will mainly depend on reforms
in three areas that, taken together, create a fertile business environment: (i) revitalizing the enterprise
privatization program and establishing institutions and policies that promote competition and facilitate
market-based entry, exit, and enterprise restructuring; (ii) creating functioning markets for urban land
and real estate, which are critical for new startups and the reallocation of assets to higher values in use;
and (iii) further developing capital markets. (Banking issues are covered in a separate section.)
Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring
42.    Context In 1993-94, under the voucher mass privatization program, the Government
transferred, either completely or partially, over two-thirds of all large- and medium-sized enterprises and
over 80 percent of all small enterprises to private ownership, including minority stakes in most of
Russia's largest enterprises. The voucher program gave substantial benefits to the insiders of the firms.
In the second stage of privatization (1995-96), the Government sold share packages in several thousand
more enterprises for cash. It also transferred controlling shares in a few of the largest and most attractive
enterprises in trust to Russian banks in exchange for loans (the so-called loans-for-shares scheme). The
lack of transparency in the way these latter privatizations were carried out raised serious concerns about
equity, concentration of market power, and corporate governance. Moreover, because the processes
utilized were non-competitive, government revenues from the transactions was substantially reduced. In
late 1996, the Government announced a third stage of privatization based on a case-by-case approach.
This program, set to begin in 1997 and initially last for three years, would be targeted at large enterprises
and involve a combination of initial public offerings (IPO) and the introduction of international strategic
investors. To date no large Russian enterprise has been successfully privatized on a case-by-case basis
on the basis of a competitive international tender or through an IPO.



- I l -
43.    The pressure for firms to compete against one another remains low in Russia, and with blunted
external incentives to become efficient, enterprises are still in the early stages of restructuring. There
remains huge scope for output and profit gains from the reallocation of existing capital to higher values in
use. But the absence of an effective economic legal framework for bankruptcy and liquidation acts as a
critical constraint on competition and the restructuring of enterprises. At the same time, weak internal
incentives for commercially-oriented governance in large, monopolistic enterprises that continue to be state
owned/controlled also stifles restructuring. Improving the management of state assets embodied in these
enterprises is a key aspect for reform.
44.   Establishing A Credible Case-by-Case Privatization Program. The Government's priority
objective in the enterprise sector is to revitalize privatization with a credible case-by-case privatization
program. Despite the extent of Russia's privatization program in transferring assets to private
ownership, the state remains, by far, the largest property owner, and the federal government continues to
retain majority ownership or control in many large enterprises. This underlines the importance-both in
strategic and fiscal revenue terms-of implementing the new privatization program in a sound manner.
45.    Privatizing these remaining assets-and doing so using competitive and transparent
privatization procedures-is necessary so as:
*  to increase efficiency in use of the assets by improving enterprise management and corporate
governance, enhancing restructuring incentives, and locking in hard budget constraints. Under
competitive privatization procedures, the winning bidders are more likely to be those who can
best manage the assets-and thus produce the highest value added for the economy.
*  to send a signal to both domestic andforeign investors that Russia's business environment is
open, competitive, and investor-friendly, and that private sector development is market-driven.
Transparent privatization militates against insider deals and sends the signal that regulatory and
other similar decisions in Russia are made predominantly on commercial, economic grounds.
*  to promote domestic support for overall market reforms and to demonstrate to the Russian
population that privatization can be open and fair. The Russian public is extremely disenchanted
with many of the recent transactions that have transferred assets to a select group of insiders at
give-away prices.
*  to raise substantial budget revenues. Cross-country experience shows that competitive and
transparent privatizations could generate billions of dollars in needed fiscal revenue over the
next several years.
46.    The process by which the case-by-case privatization program is carried out has important
ramifications for the efficiency of resource allocation, further investment from domestic and foreign
sources, public support for reform, and budget revenues. Thus future privatization procedures-
especially for the largest companies-should adhere to the following principles:
The design of each transaction should be tailored to the enterprise's and purchaser's specific
situation (i.e., the "case-by-case approach). However, the transactions should be done in the
context of an overall privatization process that is well planned and executed in conformity with
international investment practices and capital market standards.



- 12 -
*  Transactions should be transparent and competitive to ensure equal access by all potential
investors, including foreign participants. Reputable and experienced independent financial
advisors are critical to safeguard the integrity of the process.
*  Maximum restructuring efficiency and financial returns to the government from a sale will likely
come by utilizing outside, strategic investors who can bring renewed commitment and fresh
ideas to the business.
47.    To meet these objectives, the Government issued two resolutions specifying rules and
implementation procedures for case-by-case privatizations requiring them to be fully open and
competitive (including through equal and open access to domestic and foreign buyers), and using openly
and competitively selected financial advisors (Government Resolutions No. 363 of April 1, 1997 and No.
564 of May 12, 1997). The privatization processes themselves will also be widely advertised
domestically and internationally. Enterprises will be valued at market prices or, if they are not traded,
based on international business valuation procedures. The Government also selected four companies for
case-by-case privatization in 1997 under the principles outlined in the resolution and has appointed
tender committees for these privatizations (GKI Directive No. 356-r of May 15, 1997). By December
31, 1997 the tender committees will close the tenders and select the winners while issuing public
offerings as needed. Also, by June 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution selecting about 25
more companies to be privatized during 1998-99.
48.   Improving the Competitive Environment and the Management of State Assets. To meet the
Government's second objective of establishing institutions and policies that promote inter-firm
competition and facilitate market-based entry and exit, as well as introducing commercially oriented
internal governance incentives in large enterprises that are state-owned or -controlled, the policy
framework for bankruptcy is to be improved and new state asset management trust arrangements are to
be developed.
49.   The bankruptcy process is slow in Russia, and very few non-viable companies, even if they enter
bankruptcy, end up being liquidated. The Government plans to address weaknesses in the legal
framework for bankruptcy in order to facilitate the exit of non-viable enterprises. To this end, it has
submitted a new draft bankruptcy bill to the State Duma, but further work is needed to ensure that the
draft legislation would have the required impact. As a first step, based on an assessment of completed
bankruptcy cases to date, the Federal Bankruptcy Agency will develop and make public
recommendations to increase the speed and effectiveness of the bankruptcy process. Following this, by
September 30, 1997, the Government will take the necessary legislative steps to provide for: (i) an
increased role for creditor committees in the resolution of insolvency cases; (ii) the expeditious
appointment on a competitive basis of licensed trustees with authority to replace incumbent enterprise
managers; (iii) due respect for the classes of creditors (with secured creditors having priority); and (iv)
the strict observance of time limits for workout and liquidation proceedings by all parties.
50.    The Government is now developing a new program for placing enterprises in temporary trust
management (management contracts). This can either turn into a vehicle to delay or avoid privatization,
to pre-privatize enterprise in a non-transparent, non-competitive fashion, or to improve the efficiency of
state asset management and the quality of later privatization. The Government understands the
importance of ensuring that the trust management program become a vehicle for improving state asset
management and the quality of later privatization.



- 13 -
51.    A Presidential Decree No. 1660 on Trust Management was issued on December 9, 1996. The
decree establishes the general framework for trust management agreements and specifies the functions of
a trust manager which can be fulfilled without consultation with Government. Using the coal industry as
a model, the Government on December 11, 1996 issued Resolution No. 1485, which provided the basis
in principle for removing five coal companies from the commercial management of RosUgol and placing
them into trust management. Since then the implementation of trust management arrangements in the
coal sector has proceeded fitfully, because of continuing fundamental debates within the Government
about the relative merits and the phasing of trust management and privatization, and because of a number
of complex contractual and design issues, including trust managers' remuneration. To make further
progress, by June 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution with detailed implementing
guidelines for trust management arrangements that require the competitive selection of trust managers.
The guidelines will also provide for the specification of performance indicators and performance-based
compensation that are linked to financial results. The resolution will stipulate that the terms and
conditions of trust management contracts will be established only by acts of GKI. By June 30, 1997, five
large enterprises outside the coal sector will be selected for trust management under the new guidelines.
By December 31, 1997, tenders for trust management of these companies will be completed, provided a
decision to privatize the companies has not been taken.
Urban Land and Real Estate
52.    Context. In most economies in transition, economic recovery is driven by the entry of new firms.
New enterprise startups in Russia have been hindered by restricted access to commercial real estate,
including retail and office space. The primary reason for this has been the effective monopoly ownership
and control over urban land exercised by municipal administrations. In combination with legislation
which has made competitive leasing of real estate a precursor to a mandated giveaway, this monopoly
has led to artificial limits on the supply of urban land and real estate made available for competitive
commercial lease and widespread allocation of the leased commercial real estate on a non-economic
basis. That privatized enterprises do not own the land on which they are located is an equally significant
problem-enterprises cannot realize the value of the land via mortgage, lease, or sale, nor can they
restructure effectively by modifying the structures which are located on the land (control rights over the
land flow only from the ownership rights over the structures), nor can any other entity, including the city
administration, make use of the land while the enterprise is located on it. Finally, the failure to assign
clear rights and responsibilities for the lease or outright sale of unoccupied and undeveloped urban land
is another restriction on the supply and access to urban real estate. The Government took initial
measures to address these areas in 1993, but these measures inadvertently created incentives for local
officials to allocate real estate administratively on non-market terms; moreover, detailed guidelines and
regulations have not been issued. In its recently released medium-term program, the Government has
signaled its intention to redress the incentive problems and issue the necessary guidelines.
53.    Facilitating the ownership of land byprivatized enterprises is one of the first steps identified by
the Government to diminish the municipalities' monopoly control over urban real estate. By
streamlining the process and lowering the prices at which privatized enterprises may buy out the land
underneath them, the measure will both diversify the ownership structure of urban land, rationalize the
ownership and control rights to land underneath enterprises so that the enterprise may begin to realize the
asset value of that land. Full ownership rights will enable them to sell and/or mortgage their land to
finance necessary restructuring and/or relocate to areas more appropriate to their business activities.
54.    Although in theory enterprises have the right to privatize their associated land plots, in practice
the guidelines and procedures are unclear. Consequently, less than 1% of the land under privatized



- 14 -
enterprises has been privatized. The Government will issue guidelines that permit private enterprises to
assert and receive full ownership rights in a timely fashion. The right of enterprises to acquire the land on
which they are located were in principle established by Presidential Decree in 1992. The Privatization
Program for 1995 reinforced this right. To meet this objective, Presidential Decree No. 485 was issued on
May 16, 1997 to establish the necessary framework to enable all owners of privatized non-land real estate
assets (including production complexes, buildings, facilities, and unfinished construction) to acquire the
land on which these assets are located.
55.    Creating a Leasing Marketfor Commercial Real Estate. The Government's second objective
in the sector is to create a leasing market for commercial real estate. Local governments face distorted
incentives to lease and sell commercial real estate at market prices. Under existing regulations they can
maximize their political leverage by allocating real estate use rights on a non-competitive basis at below-
market prices. The federal government therefore intends to modify regulations to discourage local
governments from restricting competitive leasing and sale of premises and will ensure that transactions
are conducted at market rates. To address the issue, buyouts of competitively leased commercial real
estate were mandated in the 1994 Privatization Program. However, this created incentives for continued
administrative allocation of land. To make further progress, a presidential decree will be issued by the end
of June 1997 creating a legal framework requiring that the sale of all premises belonging to the federal
government which are currently under lease to commercial entities be carried out at market rates. All
existing restrictions on the sale of such real estate will also be eliminated. A draft law on registration of
ownership of real estate assets is under discussion in the State Duma.
56.    Improving the Allocation and Use of Undeveloped Land. The Government's third objective is
to create a market for undeveloped land within and bordering city limits for commercial development.
There is substantial vacant land in and around cities. This land cannot be used by potential start-up
enterprises because the authority to allocate this land has not been clearly assigned. The Government
plans to assign cities the authority to allocate undeveloped land within and bordering cities, and establish
a market-based framework for the allocation of unused urban land. There is a Law on Zoning currently
under discussion in the State Duma. To meet this objective, a presidential decree will be issued to
establish a framework for market-based sales of undeveloped land and/or land not currently in use
(including nonagricultural land bordering city limits) to be used for commercial development, including
through auctions and competitive tenders. A government resolution recommending model procedures
and documents will also be issued.
57.    In the medium-term, the Government intends to create a state system for registering real estate
rights and transactions under the "Uniform State Register of Real Estate Rights and Transactions," as
well as creating a base of standards for a system by which to ensure rights of ownership of real estate,
including the institution of title insurance. A mechanism of taxing real estate on the basis of its fair
market value will be developed, and current legislation will be amended so as to reduce the cost of
consummating real estate transactions. In addition, the Government will undertake measures to increase
the liability of real estate market professionals, intensify state supervision over observance of licensing
conditions in professional activity in the real estate market, and raise licensing requirements on real
estate market professionals to ensure a high level of qualifications. It will also introduce administrative
and criminal liability for the most serious violations in the real estate market and improve defense of the
rights and interests of real estate market professionals by means of private-practice law. Finally, the
principle of authorized [razreshennoye] use of real estate in place of earmarked [tselevoye] use will be
established, as well as procedures for zoning the land of population centers on the basis of land use
rights, under which rights and restrictions pertaining to different uses of land parcels and other real estate
and building restrictions would be determined for each particular district of a city.



- 15 -
Capital Markets
58.    C'ontext. Increasilng investment is key to a resumption of economic growth in Russia. The
dcv elopmient ol caplital markets, with the necessary transparency and safeguards for investors, is essential
to helcp mohilize RLussia's investment needs. Much progress has been made in clarifying institutional
aunt torit\ and responsibility for building and overseeing capital markets. An important first step was the
ill cstablishlient ol the Russian Federal Commission for the Securities Market (RFCSCM) in 1996.
1 he Rl'(CSCN1 novw is directling a broad agenda of legal, regulatory and market development initiatives,
snpoortedl h  bilateral and multilateral assistance, including the Bank's Capital Markets Development
I oain. Vhc coniditionis and workplan described below are reform measures which are critical for capital
mayket,> development but which cannot be developed and implemented by the RFCSCM alone. These
meiasures requlire reform initiatives and action by ministries and agencies in addition to the RFCSCM,
an( political conmitnient at the highest levels is needed to carry them out.
5 GvIo iin,g* lEnterprise Accounting Toward InternationalAccounting Standards. Without timely
and accurate inhOnrmation that conveys an enterprise's financial performance and condition, market
Nignlk> and liicn?ikes cann0ot wvork to encourage economically efficient enterprise management,
resitrcturing and ilN estment. A prerequisite to efficient working of the financial sector, including
.,apitai markekts, is the emergenice of an environment which encourages enterprises to provide such
intormtation lo \xould-be lenders and investors. Market-based incentives for Russian enterprises to
produce mcaningfildl financial infornation are beginning to emerge-as enterprises adjust and restructure
to a market environrmeint, the unreformed framework for both taxation and accounting is proving to be a
s igiii Icant deterreit to the emergenice of financial transparency among enterprises. Therefore the
(W\ Iernnient's tiirst ob jective in the sector is to improve the quality of financial information available for
mammacers and investors and help attract more capital, beginning with the development of financial
accoullting  ud reporting standards for enterprises consistent with International Accounting Standards
(I \$%1.
60t).   I)i,nccnties to a radical shift to IAS include concerns over potential fiscal revenue shortfalls if
thc ilhIt Is inade U ithout coordiniated changes in tax accounting. The Government will coordinate efforts
bv linlistrv of Finance, CBR, RFCSCM, and Ministry of Economy to define and implement the move
lt,oards lAS-consistent financial accounting for enterprises. This shift to IAS is identified as a priority
arca b,or refOini In the Giovernimient's "Medium-Term Program for Structural Reforms: 1997-2000,"
whilch kas suhbmitted to the State Duma on March 6, 1997. To meet this objective, the Government
propno'iS to publish an agreed Action Program later this year to introduce generally accepted accounting
pri meiple. con.istent wvith IAS.
011.    Improv'ing Capital Income Taxation. The Government's second objective is to reduce
distortionis In tie taxationi of capital income to improve the efficiency of allocation of capital. Complex,
poorlv desionedt, and in some cases excessive taxes distort commercial and financial behavior of
securitiCs Issuers, Iiaicial intermediaries, and savers. The Government intends to rationalize the system
of capital incoie taxation, though no actions have been taken so far. To meet this objective, the
(ioienirmeni intends to submit draft legislation to the State Duma by September 30, 1997 to improve the
fraincw'K f 'Or thc taxation of capital income.
02.    In ilie medium ter., the Government will develop a nationwide program for the transition to
IAS, inclluding mneasures to train and retrain specialists at enterprises. Following the development of a
legial frarnexNork for accounting reform in 1997, its introduction will follow in 1998. Use of either the
old om nel  hdalan(ce sheet forms will be acceptable for 1998 and 1999, and during this phase all practicing



- 16-
accountants will be required to under retraining to use the new forms. The Government anticipates that a
full transition to the new accounting system will be completed in a uniform system of accountant and
auditor certification developed by 2000.
D. Fiscal Reform
63.    Conte-xt. Achieving significant fiscal reform in 1997 and beyond will be critical in enabling the
Government to meet its sector development and social objectives while sustaining macroeconomic
stabilization. The Government is keenly aware of the need for fiscal reform and, in particular, a
substantial improvement in revenue performance. It also recognizes the crucial importance of tax and
spending reforms for tightening budget constraints and payment discipline at the enterprise level and for
removing distortions and inefficiencies in revenue generation and expenditure allocation that impede
new private investment. However, the political choices necessary to advance effective fiscal reforms
have proved exceedingly difficult to implement until recently. The reorganization of Government in
March 1997 has opened a window of opportunity for implementing solid fiscal reforms.
64.    The new Government's strategy-worked out with the assistance of the IMF, the Bank, and
bilateral agencies-focuses on further reducing the budget deficit by turning around the ongoing serious
erosion in revenue collections while also making more effective use of limited fiscal resources across
government functions, sectors, and regions. This will entail a broad range of fundamental fiscal reforms
in four main areas: (i) rationalizing the tax structure, (ii) improving tax administration; (iii) strengthening
budget management; and (iv) reforming intergovernmental fiscal relations. In addition, the Government
is committed to rationalizing some major expenditure programs, including in the areas of agriculture,
coal, housing, and pensions. As reforms enhancing the efficiency of government activities in these areas
are supported by other World Bank loans (the Coal SECAL-1, Enterprise Housing Divestiture, and the
planned Agriculture SAL,, Coal Restructuring-1l, Regional Reform Adjustment, and Social Protection
Adjustment loans), they are not described in this Report.
65.    Reforming the Overall Tax Structure. The Government's first objective in the sector is to
strengthen the revenue base while reducing the distortionary impact of the tax system. Russia's current
complex and distorted tax system makes legal compliance difficult and expensive and encourages tax
evasion. These distortions derive in part from a poor definition of the tax base. In particular, cash
accounting leads to a decline in tax liabilities given the high level of inter-enterprise arrears. Until
recently, substantial components of the overall compensation and benefits package of private sector
employees (such as interest on bank deposits and preferential credits provided by an employer) were
excluded from taxable income. Excise tax revenues were negatively affected by regular delays in
indexation of excise rates for inflation as well as the use of ad valorem excises, which led to losses from
under-invoicing. The high incidence of tax exemptions for individual taxpayers and specific tax benefits
for particular sectors and activities makes tax administration too complicated and further undermines its
efficiency. At the same time, some regular business costs (such as advertising costs, travel expenses, and
interest charges) still cannot be deducted from the profit tax base, which creates additional incentives for
tax evasion.
66.    The authorities took a number of measures over the last few months to broaden the base of and
increase collections from income and excise taxes. These include: (i) the preparation of a detailed
amendment to the law on Personal Income Tax; (ii) the elimination of a number of tax exemptions
granted to individual taxpayers (Resolution of the State Custom Committee No. 666 of October 30,
1996); (iii) the introduction of income tax (withholding tax) on interest from securities holdings and



- 17-
ruble and foreign exchange deposits; the taxation of benefits received from subsidized commercial loans;
and the inclusion in gross personal income, for income tax purposes, of enterprise contributions to
employee insurance schemes; (iv) the use of specific rather than ad valorem excises for alcohol and
tobacco sales to eliminate losses from underinvoicing; (v) the linitation of duty free importation of
excisable goods for humanitarian purposes; and (vi) the introduction of a regulation making the use of
excise stamps for alcohol and tobacco obligatory.
67.    The Government intends a major reform of the tax system through the passage of the Tax Code,
which it considers a significant improvement over existing tax legislation. Among many improvements,
the Code envisages the elimination or phase-out of almost all existing exemptions for the VAT and the
deduction of all business expenses when measuring the profit tax base. The Government submitted the
draft Code to the State Duma on April 30, 1997 and is committed to working closely with the State
Duma to secure its passage. Moreover, the Government will introduce further amendments to the current
draft of the Code before its consideration and passage in the State Duma. These would include: (i) the
adoption of accrual accounting under both the VAT (both credits and liabilities) and the profit tax;
(ii) the indexation of specific excise rates for inflation, (iii) the elimination of preferential rates under the
profit tax; and (iv) a simplification of filing requirements under the profit tax and personal income tax.
The Government will then review the progress of work on the Code and assess the prospects for its
timely passage. Should the legislative prospects for comprelhensive tax reform through the relatively
rapid passage of the tax code not appear favorable, the Government plans to accelerate key reforms
through the preparation and submission to the State Duma of separate legislation covering certain taxes
or needed reforms (including many of those mentioned above). 'I'he Governmenit also eliminated the tax
deductibility of transfers by RAO EES Rossii to its investment hunds (under Government Resolution No.
390 of April 4, 1997) and on May 12, 1997 submitted legislation to the State Duma to raise the oil excise
tax to Rbl 70,000 per ton.
68.   Improving Tax Administration. The Government's second objective is to develop an efficient
and impartial tax administration. The current tax administration is over-burdened with complex filing
procedures, weak collection and audit procedures, and underskilled and over-decentralized staffing.
Non-transparent legislation and its ad hoc application have led to an increasing perception of an "unfair"
tax system and "biased" tax administration. Tax compliance has deteriorated, substantial tax ar-ears
have accumulated, and a culture of non-payment has developed Regional branclhes of the State Tax
Service (STS) face growing pressures from the regional governmlents, while the control over their
activities from federal STS headquarters in Moscow is weak and( non-transparent. As a result, regions
increasingly make special deals with major local taxpayers, which are largely neutral for regional fiscal
balances, but negatively affect federal revenue collections. The Government is fully aware of the
seriousness of the situation and has decided to undertake broad-based reforms of procedures and
management of the STS and the State Customs Committee to fundamentally' strengthen their own tax
collection capacity and also improve coordination with the tax and border police and other agencies. In
October 1996, a high-level Emergency Tax Commission (VChK) was created (Presidential Decree No.
1428 of October 11, 1996), and in November 1996 the Government approved a detailed Revenue Action
Plan that focuses on increasing tax collections through improvements in tax administration. The
Revenue Action Plan, which has been worked out and is being implemented with technical support from
the bilateral and multilateral agencies, includes legislative changes as well as a host of organizational and
procedural reforms, including in the areas of tax assessment, collection, audit, and arrears policies.
69.    Under the umbrella of the Revenue Action Plan, the authorities have adopted a number of
measures to strengthen tax administration, which demonstrate their full determination to collect taxes.
These include, inter alia: (i) decisions on the phased establishmenit of large taxpayer units in 15 key



- 18 -
regions to enhance compliance for large enterprises and steps to make the units operational (STS Orders
No. BA-3-20/27 of February 17, 1997, BA-3-32/57 of March 25, 1997, and PV-3-32/104 of May 13,
1997); (ii) the adoption of a program to enhance the collection of alcohol taxes by shifting the
assessment of excise tax liability for domestic producers to the point and time of shipment, improving
the excise stamp system, strengthening the control of domestic commercial traffic in alcohol and other
excisable goods, and introducing tough penalties and publicizing enforcement actions; (iii) the
notification in the period up to May 15, 1997 of more than 15 largest debtors to the Budget that
bankruptcy proceedings will be initiated within a specified short period of time unless they pay their tax
arrears in full or participate in the announced scheme of collateralized restructuring of arrears; and (iv)
the creation of a Working Group of Government and State Duma officials to immediately start work
toward repealing or amending current provisions in the Civil Code (Article 855) to restore the priority of
certain taxes over wages.
70.    The Revenue Action Plan will also serve as the basic framework for the Government's reform
program in the area of tax administration for the remainder of 1997 and over the medium term. Its full
implementation and the comprehensive follow-through that will be necessary to achieve a sustained
increase in revenue collections will take time. The Government intends to expand the Plan as required in
the context of ongoing and future technical assistance work and expects to specify additional measures
by June 30, 1997.
71.   Strengthening Budget Management. The Government's third fiscal reform objective is to
improve budgeting management systems and processes. This will be crucial for bringing budget
execution in line with budget preparation and aligning actual with intended budget outcomes. At present,
there is a striking lack of compliance with approved budget laws in the process of budget execution.
Budget adjustments and sequestration are frequent and non-transparent. The Government has limited
capacity to control actual spending, which leads to widespread disbursement delays and expenditure
reallocation by the spending agencies. The financial reporting and accounting framework remains
inadequate, and a large portion of public funds remains in off-budget funds which are poorly controlled
by the Ministry of Finance. There is a significant room for budget savings through better cash and debt
management and the introduction of competitive procurement practices which require major changes in
legal and institutional framework governing public contracts.
72.    All these deficiencies in the fiscal management resulted in the accumulation of large budgetary
arrears (on wages, pensions, and suppliers payments), which have had substantial negative economic and
social ripple effects throughout Russia. The Government is nlow committed to eliminating budgetary
arrears on a top priority basis. To this end, beginning in 1997 the federal budget deficit is defined in
accrual terms, so that expenditure arrears become transparent and can no longer serve to compensate
revenue shortfalls and reduce the visible budget deficit. Moreover, the Government has adopted a
schedule for clearing 1996 federal wage and pension arrears during 1997. Indeed, during the first quarter
of 1997 federal pension and wage arrears have been reduced by around 30 percent, from Rbl 20.8 trillion
at the end of 1996 to Rbl 14.4 trillion at the end of March 1997. The Government also confirmed in
early May 1997 that a mechanism has been put in place for the Treasury to issue directly payment orders
for wages of the Ministry of Defense. Further, the Government submitted to the State Duma, on April
30, 1997 a draft law with expenditure ceilings that are consistent with the revised lower revenue
projections under its program. This is intended to minimize the need for ad-hoc sequestration, which has
proved a highly disruptive and inefficient practice over the last few years.
73.    The Government's fiscal reform program for 1997 includes a number of additional measures to
improve expenditure control and budget management. First, with the objective of fighting corruption



- 19-
and reducing budget expenditures, Presidential Decree No. 305 was issued on April 8, 1997 to reform
public procurement procedures. The decree requires standardized, competitive, open, and
nondiscriminatory bidding procedures for all federal agencies. The Government plans to follow up and,
by the middle of 1997, submit appropriate draft legislation to the State Duma, which would extend
competitive procurement to all levels of government. Moreover, the Government intends specifically to
introduce competitive tendering for all grain and food procurement for federal needs and to conduct no
less than 10 competitive tenders for large (i.e., valued in excess of Rub 50 billion) capital projects.
Second, to improve expenditure control and transparency, new federal financial support to agriculture
will be limited to what is explicitly included in the 1997 budget, and no new commodity credits will be
extended in 1997. Third, to reduce large off-budget expenditures that in the past have hampered
effective control and transparency in budget management, the (Government will consolidate the revenues
and expenditures of all social extrabudgetary funds (except the Pension Fund) in the draft 1998 budget.
With respect to budget execution, beginning September 30, 1997, all of these funds (including the
Pension Fund) will be shifted to the treasury system. Finally, the Governmilent will shift a significant
share of monthly federal outlays onto the new computerized Treasury system of accounting, which will
accelerate processing and improve control.
74.   Reforming intergovernmentalfiscal relations. The Government's fourth major fiscal reform
objective is to improve the system of intergovernmental fiscal relations. The agenda for reforming
subnational and intergovernmental tax, transfer, expenditure, and financing arrangements is highly
complex and politically controversial and represents a long-term challenge-in Russia even more so than
in other countries, given its size and recent history. At the same time, issues of decentralization and
intergovernmental relations are at the hear of many of Russia's key fiscal problems, not least because the
success of tax and other budgetary reforms hinges on their fundamentally voluntary implementation and
enforcement at the regional and local level. The current system of intergovernmental fiscal relations is
too expensive and inefficient. Too many regions are recipients of the federal non-conditional grants, and
the system does not provide a sufficient equalizing effect given large fiscal imbalance among regions.
At the same time, the lack of alternative types of federal transf'ers, which would be disbursed to regions
on a conditional basis, reduces federal government's leverage over regional reform efforts. There is a
growing evidence that regional administrations do not fully implement federally designed and mandated
structural reforms. This is one of the reasons why the reform progress in such key areas as housing, real
estate and land market policy has been so slow recently. Finally, there is a need for further clarification
of tax and expenditure sharing within the regions because under the current arrangements incentives at
the municipal level to improve tax collections and look for expenditure savings are inadequate.
75.    The authorities recognize both the need for and the difficulties of intergovernmental fiscal
reforms and intend during 1997 to focus on selected interventions on the financing side-which have a
strong impact on sustaining macroeconomic stabilization and developing capital markets-and on laying
the basis for implementing reforms of central-regional tax sharing and transfer arrangements in 1998-99.
Specifically, on May 12, 1997 the Government submitted to the State Duma comprehensive legislation
regulating subnational government borrowing, which defines the types of securities that can be issued,
the conditions for issuance of these securities, and exposure limits. Moreover, the federal government
will continue to refrain from any guarantees on borrowing by subnational units and entities.
76.   In addition, by the middle of 1997, the Government will finalize a work program to reform tax
sharing and transfer arrangements. The goal of this work program would be to implement new transfer
arrangements (including the expanded use of conditional transfers) in the context of the 1998 budget and
to reform tax sharing in the context of the 1999 budget.



- 20 -
E. Banking Sector Reform
77.    Context: The establishment of a vibrant and competitive banking system, which can efficiently
intermediate savings into investment, is integral to the development of the private sector in Russia.
Russia's banking sector is characterized by a proliferation of mostly small banks, low financial depth
(inflation has dramatically reduced its size relative to GDP), high costs of financial intermediation, and
growing financial difficulties in many banks including some large ones. In the period 1992-1995, the
number of banks grew enormously, and although consolidation has begun, around 2000 banks currently
remain in operation. Concentration in the sector is high: the 1 0 largest banks account for 50 percent of total
assets, and one bank (Sberbank) accounts for 70 percent of all household savings deposits. However, the
impact of the banking system on the real economy through lending has remained limited, both because of
its small size-bank assets as a share of nominal GDP declined to less than 30 percent during 1995-96-
and because many banks continue to orient their asset positions toward treasury bills, equity stakes in blue
chip enterprises, and currency, real estate, and other more speculative holdings.
78.    While a temporary liquidity crisis in the interbank market in August, 1995 was handled effectively
by the Central Bank of Russia (CBR), several large and many small banks are facing serious financial
difficulties. The root causes of the problem are unsustainable business practices (in particular excessive
reliance on short term trading activities), risky and increasingly impaired asset portfolios, and low capacity
for credit assessment and the development of a core enterprise lending business. Banks also have weak
intemal controls, undeveloped product and pricing policies, and excessive operating costs.
79.    The CBR, in coordination with the Government and Parliament, is pursuing an overall sound
reform program focused on: (i) putting in place an effective approach to dealing with illiquid and
insolvent banks (including bank bankruptcy legislation and prudent deposit protection), (ii) improving
bank accounting and supervision, and (iii) reforming the money markets and payment systems. It is
especially important at this stage for the CBR to continue moving expeditiously in identifying and
dealing with problem banks, while rapidly strengthening its on-site supervision capacity for large banks.
80.    Dealing with Problem Banks and Deposit Protection. The authorities' first objective in the
sector is to facilitate resolution of illiquid or insolvent banks and establish a prudent system of deposit
protection. The CBR intends to maintain its current policy of closing banks that are insolvent or banks
that do not comply with banking laws and regulatory acts of the CBR. The CBR and Government will
continue their policy of not providing public resources to weak banks, and will not provide for any
subsidies or privileges to facilitate takeovers or restructuring.
81.   International audits of the largest individual banks have now been conducted. However, the
capacity of the CBR to assess weaknesses in the banking sector and to take actions on problem banks
remains limited and is gradually being built up. The authorities' program incorporates defining criteria,
carrying out assessments, and developing institutional capacity to take action on problem banks. The
CBR has defined criteria for identifying problem banks and for determining whether affected banks are of
systemic or social importance. An evaluation of the 200 largest banks has been conducted according to
these criteria. Those banks with negative capital or other serious problems were notified in late February
1997 that they will be required to prepare and submit to the CBR before April 30, 1997 plans for increasing
their capital and for their operational rehabilitation. Based on these plans, the CBR will make decisions on
the banks' rehabilitation, merger, sale, or closure-which will then be implemented over time.



- 21 -
82.    Until recently, there have been substantial gaps in the legal framework for closing problem
banks. As an interim measure, the Government and the Central Bank have worked with the State Duma
to modify existing legislation to specify clearer and more streamlined procedures for withdrawing bank
licenses and for the subsequent timely liquidation of the delicensed institutions. The authorities are also
working on more comprehensive bank bankruptcy and liquidation legislation. The CBR in collaboration
with other agencies has now drafted a bill on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and submitted it to the
State Duma. In this connection, various interests are lobbying for deposit guarantee schemes that could
evoke moral hazard behavior and impose high costs on the budget or the CBR. The authorities have
pledged to ensure that any guarantee scheme that is adopted has prudent coverage of financial
institutions and deposits and is self-funding.
83.   Prudential Regulation and Supervision. The second objective of the authorities' program for
banking sector reform is to strengthen prudential regulations and supervision to improve control over and
reduce risks related to commercial bank operations. To this end, the authorities intend to take the
following measures during 1997:
*  Improving the system of prudential regulations established by Instruction I of January 30, 1996,
with a view to moving prudential regulations closer to international standards. The CBR will, inter
alia, revise procedures for calculating banks' own resources (capital); increase capital adequacy
requirements and lower the tied credit ratio; and introduce necessary changes in the calculation of
banks' prudential requirement, with a view to incorporating off-balance-sheet claims and liabilities.
* Introducing more adequate regulations and procedures for loan provisions. To this end, the CBR,
Ministry of Finance, and the State Tax Service will revise the procedure of making use of loan
provisions, with a view to making the necessary reserves in all cases where payment in full is
considered unlikely (including in cases where loans are not currently nonperforming but where there
are reasons to believe that the borrower is insolvent), while not allowing banks' tax burdens to
increase unduly as a result of these new provisioning rules.
* Moving toward a new plan of accounts for lending institutions based on international accounting
standards. A new chart of accounts has been approved by the CBR. The finalized chart of accounts
is to be applied by lending institutions as of January 1998. The CBR also intends to prepare a
regulation establishing consolidated reporting rules effective in January 1999. In adopting
international accounting standards, the CBR aims at moving to accrual-basis accounting, although
the speed of this shift remains open at this time.
84.   In addition, the CBR is beginning to expand the use of on-site inspections, targeted primarily at
the largest banks. A special unit established for this purpose within the CBR completed inspections of
19 of the one hundred largest banks in the first quarter of 1997, and the CBR intends to inspect another
fifteen banks per quarter for the remainder of the year.
85.   Money Markets and Payment Systems. The authorities' third objective is to improve the
functioning of money markets and payment systems. Banking system efficiency and stability over time
will hinge on an improved mix of instruments to manage liquidity. To this end, the authorities will put in
place new monetary instruments and develop open market operations to give banks the liquidity
management tools available in other developed banking systems. Some steps have already been taken..
In March 1996, the CBR created Lombard facilities, on a pilot basis, for up to 30-days borrowing
collateralized by government securities. In October 1996, the CBR introduced two-day repurchase
agreements with primary dealers. The CBR also rationalized guidelines as of May 1996 for meeting



- 22 -
reserve requirements to improve within-month bank liquidity. During 1997 the CBR intends to iuth-l:er
develop these instruments by: (i) allowing, on a regular basis, the establishment of L.ombard l'hcilinies
and one-day settlement credits collateralized by government securities; (ii) introducing rcverse repo
operations and an interbank repo market for a wide number of banks in Moscow and in the rcgions; and
(iii) allowing primary dealers to borrow and to take short positions in government securities. Masures
will also be taken to facilitate retail investor access to the government securities market.
86.    A high priority for the CBR is to ensure banks' timely access to liquidity during and( at !hc cuid of
the day. This will improve the efficiency of the banking sector and minimilize the nLmber f o pniciit
rejections, which should in turn reduce the possibility of contagion problems and prolmote cfifi eclixc
operations of the payments system. In addition, liquidity managemenit is impeded by lack ot .qu^ick
access to data on balances in banks' settlements accounts. Antiquated payment proLediurcs also cicak
long delays in inter-bank settlements. To address these problems, the CBR is moving to pro. ide
information to commercial banks on their within-day balances at the CBR. introduce a mull1ptipe *: wd
settlement system in Moscow (completed), and establish charges for settlemenit services pro i(idI( h\ tilt
CBR (to become effective at the beginning of 1998). Later in 1997 the CBR intends to issue drita
normative acts for the introduction of a real-time gross settlement system, whichl shouklde bc operatliona( M
the Moscow region in January 1998 and provide incentives for banks to use new electronic siettcalc,ncn
services.
PART IlI. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT lOA!N
A. Rationale and Objectives
87.    Context: Country Assistance Strategy. The Bank's Country Assistance Stralicg, 1to kRluSMiAVr
FY98-99 recognizes that the Government has a window of opportunity, provided that tile political
situation remains reasonably stable, to accelerate the pace of structural reform and restore strong and
sustainable economic growth. Provided that the Government demonstrates its commililitilmCint to acceleralte
the pace of structural reform, the Bank Group would be prepared to respond with an acc!,11crated prlram
of policy advice, fast-disbursing adjustment lending, and project financing in support ofl high proio it
public and private sector investments. Given the near term fiscal pressures on the (iovcinclleli. lhe  liank
would be prepared to provide on the order of $1.2-2 billion annually in fast-disbur sing aidfustnww
lending for the next two years. Such adjustment lending would include: (i) the presenit SAI . wv1ic  ls
closely coordinated with the IMF's EFF program, to address key reforms in private sector deveioplmlcint
(including banking sector and natural monopoly reform) as well as fiscal issues relating to t111
sustainability of the financial stabilization program (tax reforns, budget management. inltel
governmental fiscal relations); and (ii) free-standing SECAI. operations addressing issues sliiT s  k)oeial
protection, coal sector restructuring, and agriculture reform. Beyond the immediate ret>rm Jgocnda. ai
possible second round of SECALs and/or SALs could address issues such as energ)I pricillm and taxation.
longer-term pension reforms, and/or strengthening of regional and local fiscal manageincwi In addition.
the Bank Group would be prepared to support investment lending on the order of $1 billion Or 1110e
annually, with emphasis on the promotion of structural reforms at the regional and local .l el,
mobilization of private sector investment, and high priority operations in environmental ananaoen ctnd
institution building.



- 23 -
88.    The proposed SAL is fully consistent with the Bank's CAS and, if successfully implemented,
would provide the basis for additional fast-disbursing operations over the next two years to deepen the
reform program in the key areas of natural monopolies, private sector development, fiscal management,
and banking sector reforms.
89.    The economic justification for the SAL, and more generally for enhanced Bank adjustment
lending to Russia over the next two to three years, is two-fold:
a) Support of structural reforms. Russia has now achieved reasonable price and exchange rate
stabilization and entered a new stage of transition where broad and consistent structural reforms are
essential for the resumption of growth and sustained stabilization, both of which are necessary to
help reduce poverty and address other pressing social issues. The SAL process is assisting the
authorities in identifying and implementing the key structural actions that will contribute most
effectively to growth and the maintenance of stabilization.
b) Contribution tofiscal adjustment and budget /financing. Although Russia's trade and current
account consistently show a surplus, federal tax revenues have fallen to levels around only 10
percent of GDP, and the budget deficits of the federal and enlarged government remain above 7 and
8 percent of GDP, respectively (despite draconian sequestration to contain expenditures). Under the
proposed SAL (and the associated Fund EFF program), the Government is taking steps to improve
revenues and rationalize expenditures. While many of the measures supported under the SAL and
EFF will raise revenues, especially over the medium term, other measures are likely to reduce
revenues or raise expenditures in the short term. For example, the SAL supports the Government's
efforts to dramatically reduce arrears, including those related to budgetary wages and those incurred
by so-called strategic consumers of utility services. Clearing these arrears is important to impose
discipline on the budgetary process and stem the cascading effect that government-related arrears
have on the rest of the economy. In addition, the SAL supports the introduction of an urgently
needed comprehensive new tax code, which over time is critical to fiscal adjustment. However,
certain changes, such as the introduction of accrual-based calculations for the profit and income
taxes, could temporarily reduce collections by allowing the realization of losses that had previously
not been tax deductible. The SAL also supports the rationalization of energy tariffs, including where
appropriate the introduction of explicit, budgeted subsidies to replace less transparent cross-subsidies
and protect vulnerable customers.
Consequently, even with strong efforts at fiscal consolidation, the Government will continue to have
considerable financing needs for the budget in the short term. Financing these deficits by issuing T-
bills (GKOs) is still expensive, and maintaining price stability will require continued tight domestic
credit, thus precluding any significant borrowing from commercial banks. The Government is thus
seeking financing from external, non-inflationary sources, including multilateral institutions and the
Eurobond market. As part of this financing package, the SAL would provide non-inflationary
budgetary support during the next stage of economic transition, providing breathing space while
structural reforms help strengthen the Government's revenue base and reduce expenditure pressures.
90.    The SAL has been prepared in parallel with the 1997 EFF program in the context of an intensive
tripartite dialogue between the World Bank, the IMF, and the Russian authorities. As a result, the
Government's structural reform program for 1997 is equally reflected in the Letter of Development
Policy for the SAL and the Statement of Economic Policies for the EFF. This close collaboration
between the Bank, the IMF, and the authorities has helped to strengthen substantially the content of the
Government's structural reform program. The SAL also provides a crucial vehicle for intensive



- 24 -
technical support to the Government both in the detailed design and in the implementation of measures
under the program. The lack of such support in 1996 was an important reason for pervasive
implementation problems on the structural side of the EFF.
91.    Prior actions to be supported under the current SAL need to be viewed in the context of the
Government's medium-term program. For each sector, the SAL conditions have been designed jointly
by the Government and Bank to address the critical impediments to launching the structural reforms
needed. These initial conditions are thus the beginning of a process rather than an end in themselves;
they would be followed up by actions throughout 1997 and beyond (see Part 11 above and the Letter of
Development Policy attached in Attachment 4 ). Depending on progress with implementing the
proposed SAL, these follow-on actions could also be supported by further adjustment lending later in the
year.
B. Benefits and Risks
92.   Benefits. The loan would encourage and enable the federal government to proceed forcefully
and effectively with a broad range of structural reforms-including those that need to be undertaken by
the regional and local authorities. As discussed above, the reforms supported are critical to sustaining
macroeconomic stabilization and stimulating renewed economic growth. The substantial amounts of
low-cost, non-inflationary budget financing provided by the SAL would confer large financial (debt
service) savings as well as significant economic benefits (lower domestic borrowing, lower interest rates,
lower inflation, higher investment, and ultimately higher growth). The reforms supported under the SAL
would help increase efficiency across a wide range of sectors by helping create the conditions for a more
competitive and open private sector-oriented economy. This would include support for the emergence of
a healthy banking sector and for the adoption of a tax regime that adequately finances public goods and
services without creating distortions or negative incentives for private-sector activity.
93.    The joint SAL/EFF process has already generated considerable benefits by assisting the
authorities to articulate an integrated program with complementary macroeconomic and structural reform
priorities. These benefits would be significantly enhanced over the course of the next year by regular
supervision missions, during which Bank specialists would work closely with the authorities and Fund
specialists to help carry through and build on the key reforms being supported. During the supervision
process, Bank and Fund staff would also help the authorities elaborate the next stage of reforms for 1998.
94.    Risks and Mitigation Measures. The Bank's program in Russia faces substantial political,
economic, and institutional risks, which are discussed in detail in the CAS. The CAS concludes that
these risks can be partially mitigated by monitoring the reform program closely, using self-regulating
triggers linked to progress on reforms, and strengthening non-lending services and knowledge
dissemination in support of the reform process. The same general risks and mitigation strategies apply to
the proposed SAL, which is clearly a "high-risk-high-reward" operation. On the one hand, the financial
and technical support to be provided under the operation is clearly essential to the success of the reform
agenda. On the other hand, even with this assistance, there is no certainty that the Government will
successfully implement its reform agenda.
95.    A review of the experience with previous policy-based lending in Russia helps to evaluate the
specific risks of the proposed SAL, and it also suggests certain additional mitigation measures.
Rehabilitation Loans were made to the Russian Federation in 1992 and 1995, and ICRs for both loans



- 25 -
have been completed. A Coal Sector Adjustment Loan was made in 1996 and is still under
implementation. Three main lessons emerge from these operations:
96.    First, although substantial progress was made in structural reforms (especially privatization and
price and trade liberalization), the experience under both operations indicated the importance of a
stable macroeconomic environment for reform in many key areas. Under Rehabilitation 1, enterprise
restructuring was delayed by the expansion in directed state credits and the continued input subsidies,
and the financial sector were postponed because of the unstable monetary situation. Under
Rehabilitation 11, revenue pressures led to rapid growth in oil exports "for state needs", which limited the
effectiveness of measures to liberalize oil export procedures.
97.    The proposed SAL is designed to mitigate this risk by unprecedented close coordination with the
IMF's ongoing EFF arrangement. The SAL as well as the EFF support key structural measures in the
fiscal and banking area. In addition, the EFF's fiscal and monetary programs are expected to continue
reducing inflation and achieving a viable fiscal deficit, including through tight controls over fiscal
subsidies and credit expansion. Nonetheless, because of the challenges the Governm1enit faces, especially
with respect to fiscal adjustment, there remain major risks associated with macroeconomic instability.
98.    The second lesson is that successive single tranche operations, with a critical mass of
conditions for each operation completed prior to Board approval, is probably the best approach to
supporting a broad program of structural reforms in a highly volatile situation such as Russia. This
is because progress in implementing reforms can be erratic, as evidenced by the two-year delay between
negotiations and effectiveness of Rehabilitation II. Experience under the Coal Sector Adjustment Loan
shows that even in a single sector it can be difficult to design appropriate second-tranche conditions in
advance, because experience with the first tranche measures must be assessed to determine what next
steps are desirable and feasible from both a technical and political point of view. Thus, unless a
medium-term reform program can be well mapped out in detail with some confidence on both the
Government and Bank side, a series of single-tranche operations provides critical flexibility.
99.    The proposed SAL incorporates that lesson by focusing on the highest priority measures across a
number of sectors that are viable in the short term. At the same time, in the context of the EFF program,
the Bank and Government, together with the Fund, have outlined priorities for later in the year.
Depending on experience over the next several months, these conditions may be modified as appropriate.
In addition, as discussed in the CAS, if implementation progress under this SAL is adequate, the Bank
would consider preparation of a second SAL later in the year.
100.   The third lesson is the importance of a high intensity of supervision to ensure that the reforms
are implemented properly and maintained over time. As many of the reforms are complex, supervision
missions need to be staffed to provide detailed technical assistance as necessary. In addition, due to the
increasing political sensitivity of many of the reforms as vested interests begin to become more
entrenched, supervision missions are required to focus attention on the necessary measures at high
political levels. This risk will be mitigated by the fielding of frequent and regular missions in
conjunction with the Fund to evaluate progress under the SAL and the EFF. These missions will be
coordinated with ongoing non-lending and lending activities in the areas addressed under the SAL.
101.  In addition to the above risks, although there is no formal cross-conditionality between the SAL
and the EFF, tensions could arise between the Bank and IMF if Russia does not comply uniformly with
both structural policy conditions supported under the SAL and the macroeconomic conditions supported



- 26 -
under the EFF. Strong support from senior management of Bank and Fund for the framework outlined
above will be needed to manage these risks.
C. Board Conditions and Supervision
102.   Box I presents the prior actions that the authorities have undertaken as a condition of
presentation of the loan to the Board. In addition, the authorities have taken various other measures as
part of its broader structural reform agenda supported by the proposed SAL. These include, for example,
the reduction in the number of strategic customers (whom energy providers cannot cut off from the
supply despite non-payment) in January 1997; the first step of differentiation of wholesale natural gas
prices by region in February 1997; the drive to accelerate power sector restructuring that began in
March-April 1997 with a change in the management of RAO EF.S Rossii; amendments to the income and
excise tax laws that took effect in January 1997; the elaboration by an interagency working group of draft
proposals to reform capital income taxation; and the creation and build-up of a unit in the CBR to
supervise operations and facilitate settlements of Russia's largest banks (for further details, see
Attachment 5). Disbursement of the entire $600 million loan would be available immediately upon loan
effectiveness. It is envisaged that program implementation will involve quarterly supervision missions,
probably in conjunction with fMF monitoring missions under the EFF.
D. Implementation and Technical Assistance
103.   Policy implementation under the SAL will rest with the Government's Commission on
Economic Reform, headed by one of the two First Deputy Prime Ministers. The secretarial work of the
Commission will be provided by the Deputy Minister of Economy in charge of economic reform, who
will coordinate the work of the various ministries and agencies involved in policy implementation. Each
of the policies supported by the SAI, have been integrated into the Government's workplan for 1997 to
ensure that the various policies are implemented in a timely faslhion.
104.  Technical assistance for policy implementation will be needed for reforms in almost all sectors.
Initial support for preparation of the program is supported by a Policy and Human Resources
Development grant from the Japanese Government. TA for power sector reform is being supported by
the Bank through a $2 million facility from the Portfolio Development Loan, and a technical assistance
project in the power sector is under accelerated preparation. TA will be necessary for case-by-case
privatization, and the Government, in coordination with the Bank, is identifying approaches to mobilize
necessary donor funding.
E. Financial Arrangements
105.  LoanAmountand Borrower. The proposed SAL of IJS$ 600 million (in the form of a single
currency, US dollar loan would be made to the Russian Federation, represented by the Ministry of
Finance. Disbursements under the proposed SAL will be made to an account ('Deposit Account') of the
Ministry of Finance established at the Central Bank of Russia lor this purpose. The loan will have the
standard amortization term, grace period, and interest rate for ]IBOR-based US dollar single currency
loans.



- 27 -
Box 1: Board Conditions for the SAL
Reform of Natural Monopolies
1. Government approval of an action plan and schedule for the phased elimination of cross-subsidies
among consumer groups for all natural monopoly services.
2. Presidential Decree to adopt key structural reform principles for the electricity, natural gas, and
railways sectors.
3. Action to ensure that the representative group of government officials on the Board of RAO EES
Rossii have clear instructions to implement government policies in the electric power sector.
Private Sector Development
4. Government Resolution specifying rules and implementation procedures for case-by-case
privatizations, requiring them to be fully open and competitive, using openly and competitively
selected, reputable financial advisors. Enterprises will be valued at market prices or based onl
business valuation procedures consistent with international standards.
5. Selection of four companies for which case-by-case privatization tenders are to close in 1997, and
appointment of tender committees for these four companies.
6. Presidential Decree creating the legal framework necessary to enable all owners of privatized non-
land real estate assets (including production complexes, buildings, and unfinished construction) to
acquire the land on which these assets are located.
Fiscal Reform
7. Presidential Decree to reform public procurement procedures, requiring standardized, competitive,
open, and nondiscriminatory bidding procedures, and establishing conflict of interest regulations.
8. Submission of the draft Tax Code to the State Duma.
9. Government endorsement of action plan to establish large taxpayers units in the State Tax Service.
10. Notification of the 15 largest debtors to the federal budget that within one month, they will have to
decide among three options for resolving their outstanding tax arrears: (i) paying their arrears in full;
(ii) participation in the announced scheme of collateralized restructuring of arrears; or (iii) the
initiation of bankruptcy proceedings.
11. Submission of draft law to the State Duma proposing expenditure ceilings for 1997 consistent with
the Government's fiscal program.
12. Submission to the State Duma of comprehensive legislation regulating subnational government
borrowing, including the types of securities that can be issued, conditions for issuance of these
securities, and exposure limits.
Banking Sector Reform
13. Completion by the CBR of on-site inspections of at least 15 of the largest 100 banks in each quarter
of 1997 (19 of the largest 100 banks were inspected in the first quarter).
14. Introduction by the CBR of a multi-window system for processing commercial bank payments in the
Moscow region.
15. Submission of modifications to current legislation in order to specify the procedures for withdrawing
bank licenses and for the subsequent timely liquidation of the delicensed institutions.



- 28 -
106.  Loan Management. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager designated
by the Ministry of Finance. The loan manager will be responsible for preparing the withdrawal
applications, maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its timely audit (if requested by the
Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan manager will also be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the Implementation Completion Report
and for writing those sections relating to loan administration.
107.  Disbursements. Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness, the proceeds of the loan
will be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in
this account the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance items imported from
non-member countries, or goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), the Bank will require
the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund
the amount directly to the Bank (in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of
the loan). In accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules
under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not
be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements.
108.  Reporting, Accounting, andAuditing. Although routine audits of the Deposit Account will not
be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time.
109.  Closing Date. The expected closing date of the proposed loan will be March 31, 1998.
F. Coordination with the IMF
110.  The proposed SAL has been developed in very close collaboration with the IMF to ensure
consistency and complementarity between the macroeconomic program and structural reforms. At the
request of the Government, Bank staff began working with Fund staff and the Government in early 1995
to develop the structural components of the Fund's Extended Fund Facility for 1996, which was
approved in March 1996. Since then, Bank staff have participated in monthly monitoring missions with
Fund staff to evaluate progress in implementing the structural agenda under the EFF. The design of the
proposed SAL builds on that close collaboration. Specifically, the policy content of the Government's
reform program supported by both the SAL and the 1997 EFF has been elaborated in intensive tripartite
discussions between the Bank, the Fund, and the authorities-with Bank and Fund taking the lead in the
structural and macroeconomic areas, respectively, but the close coordination and collaboration giving
rise to substantial synergies. It is expected that supervision of the SAL would be carried out in
conjunction with supervision of the Fund's 1997 EFF program.
G. Poverty Implications
111.  The operation is being designed in the context of the Bank's overall strategy in Russia to cushion
the impact of the economic transition on vulnerable groups. To this end, the Bank has carried out a
poverty assessment and is working with the Government to follow up in a wide number of areas,
including child allowances, housing allowances for poor households, unemployment insurance, pension
reform, and the overall targeting of health, education, and other public services to improve coverage of
poor groups. The primary lending vehicles at present for conducting the overall dialogue with the
Government on poverty reduction are the proposed SPAL (Social Protection Adjustment Loan) and SPIL
(Social Protection Implementation Loan) operations. The SAL more generally provides the resources



- 29 -
intended to generate economic growth, therefore providing more employment opportunities as well as
fiscal revenues for public services. Moreover, the increase in economic efficiency arising from the
reforms supported by the SAL (such as in natural monopoly pricing) and the further consolidation of
fiscal stabilization and reduction in inflation resulting from the Government's tax and budget
management reforms supported by the SAL will also help reduce poverty.
H. Environmental Impact
112.  Each of the four components of the proposed SAL has potentially positive environmental effects.
The efficiency enhancing reform of natural monopolies in the energy and infrastructure sectors,
including improved pricing methods and collection mechanisms, along with the phasing out of cross-
subsidies among consumer groups, offers an opportunity for substantial environmental impact,
particularly with regard to the reduction of air pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions. The competitive
restructuring of existing firms and industries through private sector development could foster
environmental gains associated with improved management and efficiency. Enhanced fiscal
management and the associated improvements in tax collection and budget administration may over time
lead to an increase in funds available for public expenditures, which include wastewater treatment, the
protection of forests and natural reserves, and other environmental costs. Additionally, a higher rate of
tax collection could, by association, bring about an increase in the actual payment of pollution charges
placed on firms. Lastly, banking reforms will facilitate the availability of credit needed for investments
in energy efficient technologies and in environmental sciences.



- 30 -
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION
113.   1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
05/16/97
Attachments



Attachment 1
Page 1 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MAIN ECONOMIC INDICAT()RS
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate           Projected
Indicator                1991    1992      1993     1994      1995     1996     1997       1998
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0
Agriculturea                         13.8     7.3       7.5      8.7      8.6      8.6       8.5        8.5
Industry'                            45.9    42.2      40.6     37.6     39.0     39.3      38.7       38.5
Servicesa                            36.7    52.7      46.3     50.7     45.7     46.1      45.4       45.1
Total Consumption                      63.5    60.2      69.1     69.1     71.4     71.8      74.0       75.6
Gross domestic fixed investment        23.3    23.9      20.4     21.8     20.5     20.5      19.7       20.3
Government investment                   ..     ..         .      6.1      5.2      4.4       4.6        4.7
Private investment                     ..      ..        ..    19.4      20.7      19.6     18.1       17.6
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          ..   55.6       35.5     28.4     26.3     22.3      21.5       20.0
Imports (GNFS)                           ..   50.4       31.6     21.1     23.6     18.1      18.2       17.9
Gross domestic savings                 36.5    39.8      30.9     3(0.9    28.6     28.2      26.0       24.4
Gross national savingsc                36.3    35.1      28.5     29.4     27.2     26.7      24.2       22.6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product              803,747  96,967   183,780  276,912  357,509  440,097  465,482    515,045
(US$ million at current prices)
Gross national product per               ..  3,160    2,770    2,320    2,230
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at           -5.0%  -14.5%    -8.7%   -12.6%    -4.3%    -6.0%      0.0%       4.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                   ..     ..   -9.7%   -12.3%    -4.7%    -2.7%    -0.6%         3.4%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at           -5.3%  -14.6%    -8.6%   -12.5%    -4.2%    -5.8%      0.3%       4.3%
market prices
Total consumption                       ..     ..   -3.2%    -7.1 %    -2.4%    -2.8%      2.3%       5.7%
Private consumption                    ..      ..        ..   0.5%      3.9%      2.3%     3.1%       5.7%
(Continued)



Attachment 1
Page 2 of 7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Indicator                          Actual               Estimate           Projected
1991    1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997      1998
The balance of payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                            53,883   65,244   78,600   93,900   98,299  100,029    103,109
Merchandise FOB                         53,883   58,422   69,600   81,500   88,299   89,639     92,218
Imports (GNFS)b                           48,915   58,110   63,900   84,500   79,764   84,882     92,157
Merchandise FOB                         43,415   44,219   48,500   64,000   65,333   69,766     76,081
Resource balance                       ..  4,968    7,134   14,700    9,400   18,535   15,146      10,951
Net current transfers                  ..                       -58      168      168      168       168
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                     3,468    5,477   11,342    4,268   11,806    6,975      1,734
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                   700       386      637    2,017    2,000    2,500      2,800
investment
Long-term loans (net)                  ..  2,600  -10,523  -12,972   -9,470   -4,064   -1,612      -1,880
Official
Private
Other capital (net, including          ..  -5,968    8,060   -3,076    8,114  -14,603   -6,989      2,726
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                    ..   -800   -3,400    4,069   -4,929    4,861      -874     -5,379
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                  ..  5.1%      3.9%     5.3%     2.6%     4.2%     3.3%       2.1%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(YR95 prices)
Merchandise exports                    ..      ..  -7.7%    11.8%      5.9%     2.2%     2.2%       2.5%
(FOB)
Primary                              ..      ..        ..       ..             2.2%     2.2%       2.5%
Capital goods                        ..      ..                          ..   2.2%      2.2%       2.5%
Merchandise imports                    ..      ..       ..       ..  21.6%      4.7%     5.0%       6.6%
(CIF)
(Continued)



Attachment I
Page 3 of 7
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                Estimate           Projected
Indicator                 1991    1992      1993     1994     1995      1996     1997       1998
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)e
Current revenues                         ..   43.6      38.6      36.7     32.7     28.8      29.8       30.4
Current expenditures                    ..   57.9       42.7     40.7      33.6     32.5      31.2       30.2
Budgetary savings surplus (+)            ..  -14.3      -4.1      -4.0     -0.9     -3.7      -1.4        0.2
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditures                    ..    7.8        4.8       7.5      6.0      5.1       5.2        5.4
Overall balance (- = deficit)           ..  -21.8       -8.7    -11.3      -6.1     -8.5      -6.4       -4.9
Foreign financing                        ..   14.5       3.2       1.3      2.1      1.6       1.9        1.8
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market               ..   55.8       23.9      21.2     17.0     16.0      16.7       18.7
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                         ..      ..    286.6    216.5    114.0      29.7      23.6       30.3
Price indices
(YR95 =100)
Merchandise export price                 ..   72.2      84.9      90.4    100.0    106.0    105.4       105.8
index
Merchandise import price                ..       ..       ..    92.1    100.0       97.5      99.2      101.4
index
Merchandise terms of trade              ..      ..        ..    98.2    100.0    108.8    106.3         104.3
index
Real exchange rate                   171.6    23.2      48.3      80.3    100.0    134.3    139.7       145.3
(US$/LCU)'
Consumer price index                92.6%   1354%      895%     303%      189%    47.5%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                         129%   1490%      888%     307%      179%    47.1%    18.0%       12.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Enlarged government (federal and local governments and extrabudgetary funds).
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



Attachment I
Page 4 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MAIN ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Table 2: Key Exposure Indicators
Actual e                Estimate e          Projected'
Indicator               1991      1992      1993      1994        1995     1996      1997      1998
Total debt outstanding and             ..       ..   112,941   121,922    120,461   128,592   139,357   151,202
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)'             ..   13,565      4,334      3,222      5,115      -219    2,844     2,307
Total debt service (TDS)               ..    1,305      2,334     3,674      6,303   17,932    16,640    18,707
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                             ..       ..         ..    153.6       126.5    129.8    138.3    145.3
TDO/GDP                              ..       ..       61.5      44.0       33.7      29.2      29.9      29.4
TDS/XGS                              ..       ..         ..       4.6        6.6      18.1      16.5      18.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                   ..       0.0        0.5       1.0        0.9       0.8       1.3       2.6
Preferred creditor DS/public        ..       3.0       11.5      13.7       13.6       9.4      11.8      15.1
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                          ..       ..         ..       0.0        0.1       0.1       0.2       0.5
Share of IBRD portfolio             ..       0.0        0.3       0.6        1.4       2.3       4.1       5.7
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
e. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.



Attachment 1
Page 5 of 7
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MAIN ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Table 3: External Financing
(US$ millions at current prices)
Good-policy scenario
Estimate                        Projection
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      2005
Sources                           38,698    42,633    41,070    38,586    31,002    31,470    25,401
Non-interest current account balance                                               1,987   -11,736
Disbursement                     15,360    8,977    13,316    13,779     9,044    9,241    20,540
IMF                             5,473     3,380     3,900     4,000        0         0        0
Other medium- and long term     2,330     5,849     6,135     7,091    7,749     7,830    18,368
of which IBRD                   824      1,020    2,016     2,052     2,170     1,811    2,068
Net short-term                  7,557      -252     3,281     2,688     1,295    1,412     2,172
Official capital grants           -300         0         0        0         0         0         0
Private investment                 617     4,000     4,500     4,800     5,800    6,800    11,800
Direct foreign investment      2,017     2,000     2,500     2,800    3,800     4,800     9,800
Portfolio investments (net)   -1,400     2,000     2,000     2,000    2,000     2,000     2,000
Decrease in gross reserves           ()    2,015         ()       0         ()        0     3,321
Debt relief                      12,225    8,351     7,921     9,538     9,763    13,441    1,477
Uses                              38,698    42,633    41,070    38,586    31,002    31,470    25,401
Debt service due                 18,528    17,933    16,639    18,707    24,631    28,794    27,600
of which IBRD                    57       139      217       477       767     1,107     2,501
Repayments (including IMF)      12,301    10,448    8,281     9,972    12,326    16,454    14,637
Interest payments               6,227     7,485     8,358     8,735    12,304    12,340    12,963
Increase in gross reserves       10,792        l     4,240     8,377     1,571    2,876         ()
Other capital flows               9,377    24,701    20,192    11,501    4,801     -200    -2,199
Sources: CBR, MoF, Goskomstat, MICEX, IMF, IBRD.



Attachment 1
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance                                        Page 6 of 7
urope a Lwer-
Federatonw      Asia  Income
Population  id-1901 (milIons)   48.        188    1,154    Development diamond'
(NP p         1                                      2.230    2,240    1 9700
GNP. 196 bIos US$ sAte conversion fco)              330.5     10P93    1,962Liexpcay
Averaeannual grot, 19904);;0                 t:t   ;)              t                                                        :
Poipulation  (%)    :LX::if0ff:i ;;(f      fTS0:::ft:    :;  i:  Sf;;:f::$: :00.0f:   :::  0.4  IA : 1.
Laborforce(%  Raus(e 19*2-95)                         -0.9       0.6      1,8
Gross
Mst Crrecent eaestmaflest3esf year availab  since 99,                            GNP                               primary
Poverty: headlount index (% ol'popui on)               25                         pr                            enrollmentc
Urbian ppulation (f total Popa 0*or:) 73                         s 66     56    cpt
OlNeerpot*ny atlpth&NOrN)                             65        68       67
ltifiabtm tityi (prff. 1,600 fIve bIds)8                         23       36 :
Ac;cess to safe water fE of populefl*)                  ..                                 Acess to safe water
liltrc (%o  ot/tfnae1*                                0.2
Grossprlrnaerynrollment (% orschool-age                II w*Ion)  94  97  104
Malt^3ei                                              ..       sX     :t i   :: E           0  : ti E : tX Q X Q ti ;;; : 0 ;t:L; ;; ; : . : g7 105  1   -Russian Federation
Female                                .        ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~97  to0       Lower-mnidd/e-income group
KEY ECONOMIC RIOSt aod LONG-T0 RM TRENDS
1976    1:985      1994     19
Economic ratios
GOP(i sVOL etnWks*ef tarhsnge rtoy4           00 .0; ;.. t277.0   357.5
Gra &h"forwdc kninvstment/GP                   ..       ,.     2,5$     25 9              Openness of economy
xports of godis & nn4ect orervices/GOP        .        .      2.       26.3
Groat idomesticb savirigss'GDP:tS;:    ::00f   ::                               f t0.;.;  : ....;Y : 30.9    28.6
Gross naional savings/GOP Y.                            ..     29.4    27.2
Currant abount bstanoeGDP                                       3.8       1.3
Interest ppmerts/GDPao..                                .         .       1 8
Tteresti:pal d,bt/GOP                          .,X      ..);i ;   i; 7; t;$ 0; tX  tf 0 tl000 ;;QXit-0 tX t t   18       1-  Savings   --  -    Investment
TotAWl debtsarvoltaepors  a) b)                ..A)     ..     25.4     19.5
PrantvfaluXeofdebt/GOP:                       ..       ..S ::::. ff :0 ::f; t00:0:;: Lg0:::
Present valueiofe dbtxpotsX  .:
1976-84  198W6-9    1994      1995  1996-04                  Indebtedness
[avaaeennigovat J rw  A)      0ii:       000i i  : 0      X   0 : 
rGOp:                                    :    ;:0 :  t         00:t0t700  000;   f0 ..    S    f; 0    tlf t  f  ...   40t02  .8 .. :   -43 ~38    -Russian Federation
ONP prcap         ::    ..                        :-12.7       -4.1       3.7 1                          .ru
Export of_godtaid rift                               ll _  11. 8_0 _3.                        --- Low_r_m _ incorre _ _group
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985       1994    1995      :
(X of GDP) 
Agriculfure                                             -       9.2      9.2      Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
Industry                                                 .     39.5    41 7
Manufacturing                                     .         .                       
Services                                        .        .     51.3    491
Private consumption                                            52.1    57.3                 9    92   99   94   95
General government consumption                                 17.1    14.1
Imports of goods and non-factor services                       23.1     23.6                        -GI          GDP
1976-84  1985-96     1994    1995
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    -                -9.0    -6.0       Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Industry                                                      -20.9    -7 8        20-
Manufacturing                                                                     is.
Services                                                        -30      -39       1
Private consumption                           -.                                           91   92          94     95
Total consumption                                               -7,2    -2 5       -1/
Gross domestic investment                                     -29 3      -4 1      15
Imporis of goods and non-factor services                        3 5     17 1       -20
Gross national product                                         -12.8    -4.2                        -             n
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomptete.
a) Scheduled payments before debt relief.
b) Exports of goods and services.



Attachment 1
Table 4: Russian Federation at a Glance                                 Page 7 of 7
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1965      1994    1995    Inaton I%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    15001
Consumer prices                                             3032    189.2
Implicit GDP deflator                                       307.2   179.0   105
Govnmment finance                                                              5D/
(%fX  GOP)
Current revenue                                              36.7    32.7
Current budget balance                                        -4.0    -0.9 
Overall surplus/deficit                                ,    -11 .3    -6.1    1                     -GDP det. -CPI
TRADE
TRADElbons US$)                           1975    1166       1994    1996   r Export md Impot levels (mill. US$)
(nliloFns USS) 
Total exports (fob)                                        89,600  81 500       100,000 -
Petroleum, crude and processed                           15,442  17,437    I
Natural gas                                              1 11,703  13,390      71.00..
hanufactures                               ..
Total imports (fob)                                        48,500  84,000       S0000
Food                                                                                              a
Fuel and energy                                                               7S ..  . 25000
Capital gooJds                                                                       _           IIL_I        LL
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..                                            91  92  93  94  00
Import price index (1987=100)
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                                    |                         lEXopr   ED Imports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    19S6      1994    1996                   _   _        _        __
(rnilions US$)
Exports of goods and non-factor services                   78,600  93,900      Currant account balance to GDP rado 4%)
Imports of goods and non-factor services                   63,900  84,500    4o
Resource balance                                           14,700   9,400
Ne factor income                                           -4,100  -5,000    3 0
Not current transfers                                         -58     168
Current account balance.                                                     20 4
before capital transfers                                 10,542   4,568       i
Financing items (net)                                     -14,611     361     of
Changes in net reserves                                     4,069   -4,929  o     L       n          _     -tlL
Mwno:                                                                             to   Si   92   93   1"   95
Reserves including gold (nill. USS)                         6,519  17,311
Market exchange rate (locak0USS)                            2.205   4,562
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1 986     1994    11996
(nini/kns USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      121,922 120,460
IBRD                                                        6 684    1,524  |Cempstdn of tota debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
IDA                                                           0       01
Total debt service paid                                     3,674    6,303                        A
lORD                        ..      ..       38       57                       1924  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  712
IBRD                                                         3       57                10584 t54  96c17  D
IDA                                                           0       0                              6 198
Composition of net resource flows                                           |
Capital transfers, net                                     800    -300
Ofricial creditors                                                 5,363
Private creditors                                                  -740         F
Foreign direct investment                                  637   2,017        33964
Portfolio equity                                                  -1,434                  /
World Bank program                                                                                       / E
Commitments                                               1,590    1,635                                  64593
Disbursements                                               283     840
Principal repayments                                          0       0
iA - IBRD                   0 Statersi
Not flows                                  .        .+      283     840  | B IDA    D- O0her muisteral   F - Prbto
Interest payments                                            38      57   C- IMF                      G - Short-tm
Net transfers                                               245     7e3  !
Russia Country Operations Division and International Economics Department     m \v,ctor\table\%g\Rus82a9g xls  4/11/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet republics are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
Status of Bank Group Operations in Russia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of April 15, 1997)
Original Amount in US$                      Difference between                 Last IBRD
Millions                                  expected               Supervision Rating b/
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                            and actual         Development    Implementation
Project ID   Credit No.    Year              Borrower                   Purpose            IBRD       Cancellations   Undisbursed    disbursements a/           Objectives         Progress
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 2
Active Loans
RU-PE-8809   L36233          1993   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB.                  10.00                0.00            8.55                  -1.45        U                  U
RU-PE-8e09   L36231          1993   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB.                 158.00              41.60            15.68               -100.72         U                 U
RU-PE-8810   L35460          1993   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           PRIVATIZATION               90.00                0.00           39.89                 39.89         S                  S
RU-PE-8809   L36232          1993   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB.                 170.00                0.00           46.13               -123.87         U                  U
RU-PE-8809   L36230          1993   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB.                 272.00             142.15             3.88                146.09         U                  U
RU-PE-8822   L35320          1993   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           EMPLOYMENT SERV. & S        70.00               10.00           35.18                 45.18         S                  U
RU-PE-8805   L37682          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB. II               90.40                0.00            8.23                 -82.17        U                  S
RU-PE-8805   L37681          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB. II               51.10                4.72            5.57                 -40.81        U                  S
RU-PE-8805   L3768C          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB. II               99.60                0.00           96.31                  -3.29        U                  S
RU-PE-8805   L3768A          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB. II              125.30                0.00          124.51                122.89         U                  S
RU-PE-8811   L37570          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           AGRIC. REFORM IMPL.        240.00               30.00          203.96                151.46         U                  U
RU-PE-8828   L3734A          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           FINANCIAL INSTITUTIO       187.62                0.00          174.92                 151.43        S                  U
RU-PE-8839   L3763A          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           ENTERPRISE SUPPORT         196.00                0.00          196.00                  90.15        S                  U
RU-PE-34579  L37560          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           LAND REFORM IMPL. SU        80.00                0.00           72.11                 40.62         U                  U
RU-PE-8808   L37060          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           HIGHWAY REHAB & MAIN       300.00                0.00          154.16                  19.67        HS                 S
RU-PE-8805   L3768B          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB. II              108.90                0.00          105.28                  -3.62        U                  S
RU-PE-8805   L37680          1994   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           OIL REHAB. II               24.70                0.00            5.40                 -19.30        U                  S
RU-PE-8806   L38850          1995   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           URBAN TRANSPORT            329.00                0.00          220.01                 44.51         S                  S
RU-PE-40409  L38726          1995   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           EMERG. OIL SPILL MIT        29.60                1.00           26.96                  -2.04        S                 HS
RU-PE-8823   L38440          1995   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMEN        40.00                0.00           34.60                  24.09        U                  U
RU-PE-8821   L38060          1995   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           ENVIRONMENT MANAGEME       110.00                0.00           90.71                  -7.64        S                  S
RU-PE-8826   L38240          1995   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           MANAGEMENT AND FINAN        40.00                0.00           31.67                   1.48        S                  S
RU-PE-38572  L38530          1995   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           TAX ADMINISTRATION          16.80                0.00           16.21                   7.87        U                  U
RU-PE-8803   L38760          1995   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           RUSSIA ENERGY EFFICY       106.50               36.50           70.00                  46.16         U                 U
RU-PE-45622  L40590          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           COAL IAP                    25.00                0.00           23.85                    .15        S                  s
RU-PE-38571  L40330          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           MEDICAL EQUIPMENT          270.00                0.00          267.15                   2.15        S                  S
RU-PE-36973  L40120          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           ENTP.HOUSING DIVESTI       300.00                0.00          298.14                   1.64        S                  S
RU-PE-35764  L39900          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           BRIDGE REHABILITATIO       350.00                0.00          348.91                  35.51         S                 S
RU-PE-8837   L39610          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           STANDARDS DEVELOP.          24.00                0.00           23.65                   1.75         S                 S
RU-PE-35761  L40090          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           COMMUNITY SOCIAL INF       200.00                0.00          194.72                   -.28         S                 S
RU-PE-42622  L40290          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           CAPITAL MARKET DEV.         89.00                0.00           89.00                   1.00         S                 S
RU-PE-8831   L40350          1996   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           LEGAL REFORM PROJECT        58.00                0.00           57.31                   3.31         S                 S
RU-PE-42720  L41440          1997   RUSSIAN FEDERATION           ST. PETERSBURG REHAB        31.00                0.00           31.00                   0.00
Total                                                                                     4,292.53              264.97        3,119.65                 591.82
Active  Loans       Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                   907.91           1,822.05          2,729.96
of which has been repaid:                     0.00               0.00              0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 4,027.56           1,822.05          5,849.61
Amount sold                      :                  0.00                0.00             0.00
Of which repaid               :                  0.00               0.00              0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              3,119.65                0.00         3,119.65
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:   Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
Status of IFC Operations in Russia
As of 31-Mar-97
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
-------- IFC                           ------IFC-----------
FY              Company             Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Approval
1993    Intl Moscow Bank              14.10      0.00     0.00     0.00    2.10     0.00    0.00      0.00
1993    Polar Lights                  33.95      0.00     0.00     0.00   33.95     0.00    0.00     0.00
1993    Vasyugan                       5.63      0.00     1.50     0.00    5.63     0.00    1.50     0.00
1994    Framlington Fund               0.00      8.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     8.00    0.00      0.00
1994    Russia Registry                0.00      1.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.50    0.00     0.00
1994    RTDC                           0.00      7.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     7.50    0.00     0.00
1995    A.O. Volga                    30.00     11.00     0.00    39.38   30.00    11.00    0.00    39.38
1995    Depsona Z.A.O.                 5.30      1.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.50    0.00     0.00
1995    First NIS Fund                 0.00     15.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    15.00    0.00     0.00
1995    Russ Tech Fnd                  0.00      2.00     0.00     0.00    0.00      .50    0.00     0.00
1995    SCDC                           0.00       .47     0.00     0.00    0.00      .35    0.00     0.00
1995    SCF                            0.00      4.53     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.26    0.00     0.00
1996    Alpha Cement                   0.00     13.49     0.00     0.00    0.00    13.49    0.00     0.00
1996    Pioneer First                  0.00      4.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     4.00    0.00     0.00
1996    UNEXIM Bank                   15.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
1997    Aminex                        17.00      6.10     0.00     0.00    0.00     6.10    0.00     0.00
Pending Commitments
1996    * ALPHA CEMENT                20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1996    * BORSTEKLO                    0.00      9.15     0.00     0.00
1997    * DEPSONA B LOAN               0.00      0.00     0.00     5.20
1997    * NIKITAS BROKER.              7.00       .01     0.00     0.00
1997    * TROIKA DIALOG                0.00      0.00     2.99     0.00
1995    * VOLGA FUND                   0.00     20.00     0.00     0.00



Attachment 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken to prepare:                       6 months
(b) Prepared by:                                 Government with the assistance of 1BRD and
IFC staff and consultants
(c) Preparation and appraisal missions:          December 1996; January, February, March 1997
(d) Negotiations:                                April 28-29, 1997
(e) Planned Board presentation:                  June 5, 1997
(e Planned date of effectiveness:                June 1997
(g) Expected program completion:                 March 1998



Attachment 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR 1997
I. Introduction
1.   In March 1996, the Government of the Russian Federation formulated a medium-term
economic program covering the period 1996-98, designed to accelerate the transition of the
Russian economy onto a path of sustained noninflationary growth on the basis of market
principles. The key macroeconomic policy underpinning these objectives was a targeted
reduction in the overall fiscal deficit (of the enlarged and the federal government) from around
5 percent of GDP in 1995 to 4 percent of GDP in 1996 and to 2 percent of GDP by 1998. The
sustainability of this fiscal adjustment was predicated on an increase in revenues of the
government of 4-5 percentage points of GDP over the medium term, to allow for a more
appropriate level of spending. At the same time comprehensive structural reforms were
envisaged, to put in place the institutional and legal framework to support a market economy.
2.    The principal economic policy achievement during 1996 was our success at securing
financial stabilization. Through the implementation of a restrictive credit policy, monthly
inflation was reduced to the 1-2 percent range, while the ruble was successfully guided through
the exchange rate corridors established for 1996 in spite of continuous uncertainties relating to
the presidential elections.
3.    The success achieved in stabilization remained fragile, however, because of the
difficulties experienced in the area of fiscal policy. In the first half of 1996, uncertainties ahead
of the Presidential elections adversely affected government securities markets and raised federal
government interest expenditures significantly above program projections. This pressure was
exacerbated by a plummeting of tax revenues, leading to a major departure in the stance of fiscal
policy from what had been charted under the program. The Government attempted to redress the
situation through a series of revenue packages, but the implementation of measures in improving
collections was only partially successful, as fundamental changes were needed both in the tax-
paying culture and in the institutions charged with tax collection. Thus, revenues remained weak
throughout the year, and given the need to avoid a disruptive compression of noninterest
expenditures, the federal and enlarged government deficits were allowed to rise to, respectively,
6.3 percent of GDP and 6.6 percent of GDP in 1996. We would note, however, that even this
represented a significant fiscal effort, with the primary deficit (excluding interest expenditures)
limited to around 2 percent of GDP, equal to the 1995 level and only '/2 percent of GDP higher
than envisaged under the original program.



Attachment 4                                                    Letter of Development Policy
2
4.    Developments in the area of structural policy were mixed. While good progress was made
in implementing reforms in the banking sector, other reforms lagged behind significantly,
particularly in the areas of privatization, natural monopolies, budget systems and processes, and
the social safety net. This disappointing performance partly reflected the priority attention we
had to pay to redressing the fiscal situation. Also, over the course of the year, we came to realize
that the vast range of reforms targeted under the program severely strained implementation
capacity.
5.    In 1997, we intend to accelerate the process of fiscal consolidation based on achieving a
significant strengthening of the underlying revenue situation. At the same time, we are
determined to push decisively ahead with structural reform because, without it, sustained growth
is not possible. In view of the implementation problems experienced in 1996, we intend to
undertake a strong, streamlined, structural program in 1997.
II. The Macroeconomic Program for 1997'
A. Fiscal Policy
6.    Consistent with our desire to put government finances on a solid footing, the deficit of the
enlarged government will be limited to 6 percent of GDP in 1997. In accordance with this limit,
the federal budget deficit will be limited to around 5 1/2 percent of GDP. At the same time, the
evolution of the enlarged government deficit will depend critically upon the consolidated
financial position of the local governments and the extrabudgetary funds. In that context, the
Government will monitor closely the finances of the Pension Fund as well as the issuance of debt
by local governments. The enlarged government deficit will be limited to about 4 percent and
3 percent of GDP for 1998 and 1999, respectively.
7.    To ensure the realization of the federal deficit target, the Government will implement
measures aimed at substantially increasing the cash revenues of the federal budget in 1997. The
timely collection of adequate revenues remains the paramount priority during 1997, and for this
purpose several initiatives have been taken which include the full implementation-and
extension on a number of fronts as needed-of the comprehensive action plan to improve
revenue performance that was developed in late 1996, as well as the beginning of actions leading
to a major overhaul of the tax system.
8.    Under the umbrella of the revenue action plan, steps are being taken to fundamentally
strengthen the capabilities of tax collection agencies through significant organizational and
procedural changes aimed at enhancing tax compliance. These include the phased establishment
of large taxpayer units in 15 key regions to enhance compliance for large enterprises; and
measures to enhance the collection of alcohol taxes through the assessment of excise tax liability
' Details of some of the policy measures are provided in the Annex which, together with this main text, forms an
integral part of the 1997 program.



Attachment 4                                                   Letter of Development Policy
3
for domestic producers at the time of shipment, improvements to the excise stamp system, and
steps to strengthen control of domestic commercial traffic in alcohol and other excisable goods.
9.    In the context of the action plan, we will also take notable measures to demonstrate our
will to enforce tax laws and legislative initiatives to raise collections. Accordingly, we are taking
steps to collect arrears of the 15 enterprises with the largest tax arrears and will initiate
bankruptcy proceedings if necessary. In addition, we intend to work with the State Duma to
amend the current provisions of the Civil Code to restore the priority of certain taxes over wages.
Also, legislation is being introduced to increase the oil excise tax to Rub 70,000/ton.
10.   At the same time, we are intending a major reform of the tax system through the passage
of the Tax Code which will significantly improve existing tax legislation. Among many
improvements, it envisages the elimination or phase-out of almost all existing exemptions for the
VAT and the deduction of all business expenses when measuring the profit tax base. It also
includes the adoption of accrual accounting under both the VAT and the profit tax; the
indexation of specific excise rates for inflation; the elimination of preferential rates under the
profit tax; and a simplification of filing requirements under the profit tax and personal income
tax. In addition, we are committed to work with the State Duma to further simplify and clarify
Part 1 of the Tax Code, particularly as it relates to the determination of the profit tax base and to
administrative procedures.
11.   With regard to expenditure, it has become clear that the level of spending envisaged in
the 1997 budget will not be achievable. As a way to maximize transparency and minimize
disruptive budgetary practices, we intend to submit a draft law to the State Duma proposing
expenditure ceilings for 1997 which are consistent with the program. This level of expenditure
will be sufficient to provide for the basic needs of the federal government while at the same time
ensuring that there will be no incurrence of new arrears.
B. Monetary and Credit Policy
12.   During 1997, the Government and the CBR will restrict the growth of monetary
aggregates to a level consistent with the inflation objective for 1997 as well as the goal of
maintaining the ruble within the exchange rate corridor set for 1997. As an operating target,
ceilings have been established on the stock of net domestic assets of the monetary authorities as
well as limits on the stock of net claims of the monetary authorities on the federal and the
enlarged government (defined to include the consolidated federal and local governments, and all
state extrabudgetary funds). Quarterly targets have also been established on the stock of official
net international reserves of the monetary authorities. Methodological and regulatory changes
affecting reserve money, if any, will be made. to the extent possible, neutral with respect to the
growth of ruble broad money.
13.   The CBR will conduct monetary policy according to currently established principles of
not providing any direct credit to finance the enlarged or the federal budget deficit; additionally,



Attachment 4                                               Letter of Development Policy
4
the monetary authorities will extend credit to commercial banks only in the form of the Lombard
facility and other market-based mechanisms. The CBR will continue to rely on open-market
operations to control the increase in the net domestic assets of the monetary authorities in
accordance with the objectives, and within the limits, of the monetary program.
14.   The CBR will set the structure of interest rates on its transactions in line with the
prevailing comparable market rates. At the same time, the Government will not extend in 1997
any budgetary loans at interest rates below comparable market rates, nor will it subsidize interest
rates on credits from any other sources except, possibly, for advance cash payments on federal
transfers to regions, and provided that, when such advances mature, the interest subsidy is fully
deducted from the corresponding annual budgetary appropriation.
15.   The Government and the Central Bank will not extend credits or budgetary loans to clear
interenterprise arrears.
C. Foreign Exchange and International Reserves Policy
16.   The Government and the CBR will continue to apply the principles of a unified exchange
system, and intend to eliminate the remaining restriction on payments and transfers for current
international transactions during 1997. During the period of the program, neither the government
nor the CBR will impose or intensify restrictions on payments and transfers for current
international transactions, introduce or modify any multiple currency practices, conclude bilateral
payments agreements that are inconsistent with Article VIII of the IMF's Articles, or impose or
intensify any import restrictions for balance of payments purposes.
17.   Building upon the successful introduction and maintenance of an exchange rate band
since 1995, the Government and the Central Bank intend to continue this policy for 1997. The
lower and upper limits of the band will be adjusted smoothly from Rub 5,500-Rub 6,100 per
U.S. dollar at end-1996 to Rub 5,750-Rub 6,350 at end-1997. Financial policies to be pursued
under the program will underpin confidence in the maintenance of the rate within the band.
Exchange rate policy for the period beyond 1997 will be determined by November 30, 1997 on
the basis of experience under the band and with a view to assisting the maintenance of low
inflation in 1998.
18.   The net international reserves of the monetary authorities will be subject to minimum
levels. The gross international reserves of the monetary authorities are expected to reach around
$19 billion by the end of 1997.
D. External Debt Policies
19.   The Government intends to finalize the June 1996 agreement with commercial bank
creditors on a restructuring of the stock of debt by August 15, 1997. The Government has also
reached a framework agreement on our outstanding debt to uninsured suppliers and hopes to



Attachment 4                                                 Letter of Development Policy
5
finalize the remaining agreements with national clubs by end-June 1997, with a view to begin
issuing the new promissory notes shortly thereafter. In addition, the Government intends to
conclude comprehensive and definitive rescheduling of debt service obligations falling due to
other official bilateral creditors on terms that are comparable with those granted by the Group of
Participating Creditors in April 1996. As explained in the attached Annex, it is the firm intention
of the government to avoid any new arrears.
20.   As regards Russia's claims on developing countries, a number of discussions with Paris
Club creditors and debtor countries have identified the main areas that remain to be resolved.
These relate to exchange valuation issues for Soviet-ruble denominated claims and the discount
to be applied on the claims. We expect-with the cooperation of other creditors-to resolve
these outstanding issues over the coming months, and to begin participating in the Paris Club
framework before the end of 1997.
III. The Structural Reform Program
21.   We are determined to preserve what has been already achieved in various key areas of
structural reform. Among others, no measures will be adopted that would restrict the existing
rights of land ownership; no initiatives will be taken to nationalize privately owned or privatized
enterprises; and no quantitative restrictions will be introduced on international trade transactions,
with the possible exception of any protectionist measures that might be taken fully consistent
with WTO rules. We will also strive to reduce import tariff exemptions, laying the basis for an
eventual reduction in import tariffs. Details of some of the policy measures are provided in the
Annex.
A. Natural Monopolies Policy
22.   To promote competition and efficiency, actions will be taken to secure adequate
regulation of natural monopolies to address both the longer term objective of sector restructuring
as well as the immediate problems emanating from cross-subsidies. As regards the former, by
April 30, 1997, a presidential decree will be issued adopting the structural reform principles for
the electricity, natural gas, and railways sectors for 1997 as outlined in the concept paper "On
Developing Guidelines for Structural Reforms of Natural Monopolies" submitted to the
government on March 26, 1997. The decree will instruct the Government to elaborate a detailed
medium-term restructuring program to be adopted by a government resolution by June 30, 1997.
23.   By June 30, 1997, the Government will establish new principles and procedures for the
pricing of electricity, natural gas, and railways services. With a view to encouraging efficient
production and usage of these services, these pricing principles will (a) allow suppliers to recover
prudently incurred fixed and variable costs; (b) require prices to reflect differences in cost
between customer classes and geographic regions; and (c) over time, allow price adjustments to



Attachment 4                                                 Letter of Development Policy
6
reflect the evolution of costs and demand conditions. In order to regulate prices, the Government
will prepare a list of information needs and presentational forms (including details on proposed
investment and sources of financing).
24.   To improve the flow of payments and reduce arrears in the energy sector, the Government
has made adequate provisions in the 1997 budget to pay for the fuel and energy consumption of
the remaining "strategic customers" who may not be disconnected for nonpayment, as listed in
Government Resolution 74, issued January 28, 1997. The Government will ensure that there are
no arrears to energy suppliers on account of the remaining strategic customers.
B. Private Sector Development
25.   We are committed to following a four prong policy for encouraging the development of
the private sector, namely: reform of the agricultural sector to increase the sector's efficiency
and productivity; development of efficient capital markets in conformity with international
practice; pressing ahead with the privatization program on a transparent and competitive basis;
and promoting full private ownership and development of urban land and real estate.
1. Agriculture
26.   As regards government policies toward the agricultural sector, to improve the functioning
of the land market and attract needed financing to the sector, a presidential decree will be issued
by November 30, 1997 providing detailed guidelines for transactions in land (and in land shares),
including leases, sales, and mortgages.
27.   By November 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution to implement a program
of reorganizing and/or liquidating insolvent agricultural enterprises and organizations. If any
budgetary support is needed for this purpose, it will be provided within the appropriations for
agriculture in the 1998 budget. The main features of such procedures are outlined in the Annex.
2. Capital Markets
28.   To promote the efficient functioning of the capital market, accounting and auditing
reforms are to be rapidly accelerated. By August 31, 1997, the Government will approve and
publish an agreed Action Program to introduce generally accepted accounting principles
consistent with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
29.   To improve the ability of Russia's capital markets to mobilize domestic savings and
attract foreign investment, the government will submit draft legislation to the Duma by
September 30, 1997 to improve the framework for the taxation of capital income. The key
principles of such a framework are set out in the Annex.



Attachment 4                                                   Letter of Development Policy
7
3. Privatization
30.   In the area of privatization, by April 30, 1997, the Government will issue regulations
specifying rules and implementation procedures for case-by-case privatizations requiring them
to be fully open and competitive (including through equal and open access to domestic and
foreign buyers), and using openly and competitively selected financial advisors. Enterprises will
be valued at market prices or, if they are not traded, based on standard business valuation
procedures.
31.   By May 10, 1997, the government will select four of the ten companies listed in the
Annex for case-by-case privatization in 1997 under the principles outlined in paragraph 30. On
April 24, 1997, the Government appointed tender committees for these privatizations, and by
December 31, 1997, the tender committees will close the tenders and select the winners while
issuing public offerings as needed. However, if it becomes impossible to privatize one of the four
companies as planned, because of insurmountable legal or technical difficulties that constitute a
case of "force majeure", the Government will substitute another company from the original list
of ten. Also, by June 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution selecting about 25 more
companies to be privatized during 1998-99.
32.   By June 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution implementing guidelines for
trust management arrangements that require the competitive selection of trust managers. The
guidelines will also provide for the specification of performance indicators and performance-
based compensation that are linked to financial results. The resolution will stipulate that the
terms and conditions of trust management contracts will be established only by acts of GKI.
33.   To improve the allocation and use of existing capital assets. the government will
accelerate the bankruptcy process. To this end, the Government will take the necessary
legislative steps by September 30, 1997 to provide for: (a) an increased role for creditor
committees in the resolution of insolvency cases; (b) the expeditious appointment on a
competitive basis of licensed trustees with authority to replace incumbent enterprise managers;
(c) due respect for the classes of creditors (with secured creditors having priority); and (d) the
strict observance of time limits for workout and liquidation proceedings by all parties.
4. Urban Land and Real Estate
34.   As for reforms concerning urban land and real estate, by May 10, 1997, a presidential
decree will be issued to establish the necessary legislative framework to enable all owners of
privatized nonland real estate assets (including production complexes, buildings, and unfinished
construction) to acquire the land on which these assets are located. For all future privatization of
such assets, the associated land plots will be included in the transaction package.



Attachment 4                                                  Letter of Development Policy
8
35.   By September 30, 1997, a presidential decree will be issued to establish a legal
framework for market-based sales of undeveloped land and/or land not currently in use
(including nonagricultural land bordering city limits) to be used for commercial development,
including through auctions and competitive tenders.
36.   By June 30, 1997, a presidential decree will be issued creating a legal framework
requiring that the sale of all premises belonging to the federal government which are currently
under lease to commercial entities be carried out at market rates. All existing restrictions on the
sale of such real estate will also be eliminated.
C. Trade Policy
37.   As regards trade policy, the Government will put into place a market-based
(nondiscretionary and transparent) system for access to oil transportation capacity in the
Novorossiisk and other constrained pipelines. For this purpose, by July 31, 1997, the
Government will develop provisional procedures for open and competitive auctioning of access
to the pipelines and terminals. By September 30, 1997, the Government will hold auctions for
making available access rights for the fourth quarter of 1997 to all interested parties. By
November 30, 1997, the scope of the auction mechanism for 1998 will be determined. All
resolutions and directives covering programs of export of oil and oil products for State needs
have been eliminated on March 16, 1997 except as follows. By July 31, 1997, the Government
will issue amendments to Government Resolutions #579 of May 14, 1996 and #208 of February
28, 1996 that will stipulate: (i) that the oil export programs under these resolutions will be
terminated effective January 1, 1998; and (ii) that the financial flows relating to these
transactions will be brought onto the federal budget as of July 31, 1997. The program under
Government Resolution #736 of June 24, 1996 will expire by end-1997. In 1997, the export of
oil and oil products under existing intergovernmental agreements will not have priority access to
the pipelines.
D. Structural Fiscal Policy
1. Reform of Extrabudgetary Funds
38.   The Government is determined to ensure that the finances of the extrabudgetary funds-
and most notably the Pension Fund-do not compromise the efforts at fiscal consolidation.
Accordingly, during the remainder of 1997, no measures will be taken that will increase the
overall level of pension benefits unless accompanied by fully offsetting measures. In addition, by
September 30, 1997 the Government will submit a draft law to the State Duma restructuring
insurance contributions to extrabudgetary funds aimed at a significant strengthening of the
revenue base of the Pension Fund, including by reallocating revenues from other social funds,
particularly the Social Insurance Fund. The expenditure commitments of the other funds will be
reduced accordingly.



Attachment 4                                                 Letter of Development Policy
9
39.   To improve the long-term sustainability of the Pension Fund, legislation will be
submitted to the State Duma by September 30, 1997 to shift financial obligations for early
retirement pensions and related privileges to enterprise or sector-funded schemes, to set the level
of working pensions independently from old age pensions, to transfer to the federal budget
spending obligations which are not directly related to pension benefits, and which will take into
consideration any other alternatives, including restructuring of commitments.
40.   To address long-term concerns, the Government will adopt and publish a detailed
program on systemic pension reform by October 31. 1997, involving (a) a new scheme of
mandatory pensions based on funded principles; (b) a regulatory framework for private pension
funds; and (c) maintenance of the current mandatory pension system for existing pensioners and
workers approaching the pension age during the transition.
2. Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
41.   The sound design of intergovernmental fiscal relations-i.e., subnational borrowing and
arrangements for the sharing-are a crucial element of our strategy to build strong public
finances. For this purpose, by April 30, 1997, comprehensive legislation regulating subnational
government borrowing will be submitted to the State Duma, which will define the types of
securities that can be issued, the conditions for issuance ot these securities, and exposure limits.
The federal government will continue to refrain from any guarantees on borrowing by
subnational units and entities.
42.   By June 30, 1997, a work program to reform tax sharing and transfer arrangements will
be finalized by the Government. The goal of this work program would be to implement new
transfer arrangements (including the expanded use of conditional transfers) in the context of the
1998 budget and to reform tax sharing in the context of the 1999 budget.
3. Budget System and Process
43.   Budgetary management will also be enhanced through improvements in procedures
including those related to budget execution and procurement policies. Accordingly, by April
30, 1997, the Government will put in place a mechanism for the Treasury to issue directly
payment orders for wages of the Ministry of Defense with the intention of completing the
process by end-1997, barring unanticipated technical problems.
44.   On April 8, 1997, a presidential decree was issued to reform public procurement
procedures, requiring standardized, competitive, open, and nondiscriminatory bidding
procedures, and establishing conflict of interest regulations. The decree also requires competitive
bidding procedures for all federal agencies. It will be followed by submission to the State Duma
of appropriate draft legislation by June 30, 1997.
45.   The Government will provide no federal financial support to agriculture (including
programs of subsidized agricultural credit and budgetary loans), unless explicitly included in the



Attachment 4                                               Letter of Development Policy
10
1997 budget. In addition, no new commodity credits will be extended in 1997. In the 1998
budget there will be no subsidies on agricultural inputs, including fuel, except for feed subsidies,
which will be reduced by at least 50 percent compared to 1997 actual expenditures.
4. Tax Policy and Administration
46.   As noted in paragraphs 7-9, the revenue action plan adopted by the Government in
November/December 1996 will serve as the framework for the 1997 program in the area of tax
administration. This action plan will be expanded as required in the context of ongoing technical
assistance work, with additional measures to be specified by June 30, 1997.
47.   As noted in paragraph 1 0, the Government intends to undertake a significant reform of
tax policy through the draft Tax Code, which is to be submitted to the State Duma by
April 30, 1997. We intend to work closely with the State Duma to secure passage of the Code.
By May 31, 1997, however, we will review the progress of work on the Code, and assess the
prospects for its timely passage. In the context of that review, we will consider the need for
accelerating key reforms through the preparation and submission to the State Duma of separate
legislation covering certain taxes or needed reforms.
E. Banking Sector Issues and Monetary Management
48.   We intend to continue to push ahead with a comprehensive approach at strengthening the
banking system. The elements of this approach include measures to deal with problem banks,
strengthening of the banking supervision capacity of the CBR, more effective enforcement of
prudential regulations, better monetary management, as well as planned improvement in the
payment system. As regards its policy towards problem banks, the CBR will maintain
throughout 1997 its policy of closing banks that are insolvent or banks that do not comply with
banking laws and regulatory acts of the CBR. The CBR and Government will continue their
policy of not providing public resources to weak banks, and will not provide any subsidies or
privileges to facilitate takeovers or restructuring.
49.   On the basis of its evaluation of the top 200 banks and other available information, the
CBR has identified those banks that have negative capital or other serious problems. At
end-February the CBR informed such banks that they will be required to prepare plans for
increasing their capital and for their operational rehabilitation, for submission to the CBR on or
before April 30, 1997. On the basis of these plans, the CBR shall decide, no later than
June 30, 1997 whether these banks can be recapitalized and rehabilitated, or whether other
statutory procedures as per the banking legislation should apply which may include the
withdrawal of banking licenses.
50.   The Government and the CBR will take measures to ensure State Duma deliberation of
the laws on bankruptcy of lending institutions and on deposit insurance, and will take steps to
facilitate passage of these laws. Any deposit insurance scheme that is implemented will be



Attachment 4                                                 Letter of Development Policy
11
fumded only by premiums of participating banks and the associated investment income, with no
use of the CBR or government resources.
51.   During 1997, the CBR will strengthen the supervision of banks through greater use of on-
site inspections, and by making existing prudential regulations more effective. In 1997 the CBR
will complete on-site inspections of at least 15 of the top 100 banks each quarter; indeed, it has
inspected 19 banks in the first quarter. With regard to bank licensing, steps were taken to modify
the current legislation in order to specify the procedures for withdrawing bank licenses and for
the subsequent timely liquidation of the delicensed institutions.
52.   The CBR will continue to improve the system of prudential regulations established by
Instruction I of January 30, 1996, with a view to moving prudential regulations closer to
international standards. During 1997, the CBR will, inter alia: revise procedures for calculating
banks' own resources (capital); increase capital adequacy requirements and lower the tied credit
ratio; and introduce necessary changes in the calculation of banks' prudential requirements, with
a view to incorporating off-balance-sheet claims and liabilities.
53.   During 1997, the CBR will further refine the new plan of accounts for lending
institutions, based on International Accounting Standards (JAS); also, the CBR and the
Government will introduce more adequate regulations and procedures for loan provisions.
54.   The Government and the CBR will take a number of measures to improve the functioning
of money markets. The CBR will work to develop instruments of liquidity management in the
banking system by improving the mechanisms of the Lombard facility and one-day settlement
credits as well as by introducing an interbank repo market and reverse repo operations. Further,
measures will be undertaken to allow primary dealers in the government securities market to
borrow and to take short positions in securities. Measures x" ill be taken to facilitate retail investor
access to the government securities market.
55.   The functioning of money markets and the efficiency of the banking sector will also be
enhanced through improvements to the payment system. In this area, the CBR intends to provide
information to commercial banks on their within-day balances at the CBR, to introduce a
multiple-window settlement system in Moscow and to introduce charges for settlement services
provided by the CBR.



Attachment 4                                                 Letter of Development Policy
12
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ANNEX TO PART III ON THE STRUCTURAL REFORM PROGRAM
OF THE LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
A. Natural Monopolies
I.    With respect to paragraph 22 of the Letter and the electricity sector:
(a)   By September 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution to create an
independent nonprofit Wholesale Market Operator to operate the wholesale electricity market,
including the settlement and clearance of payments, and the government will establish a
Supervisory Council for the Wholesale Market composed of representatives of market
participants (with no participant having a dominant position). By September 30, 1997, the FEC
will also make public a Wholesale Market Agreement which specifies the duties and
responsibilities of the participants in the wholesale market.
(b)   By June 30, 1997, the Government will outline general principles (based on a
report by the FEC) for the commercial licensing of enterprises participating in the wholesale
market. By August 31, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution giving the FEC exclusive
authority to issue such licenses. By September 30, 1997, the Government will solicit public
comments on drafts of each type of license and by December 31, 1997, it will make final
versions public.
(c)   By December 31, 1997, the Government will publish a plan to create a sufficient
number of generation companies independent of RAO EES Rossii to establish a competitive
wholesale market.
(d)   By April 30, 1997, the Government will ensure that the representative group of
government officials on the Board of RAO EES Rossii have clear instructions to implement
governmental policies in the electric power sector.
2.    With respect to paragraph 22 in the Letter and the natural gas sector:
(a)   A government resolution will be issued by June 30, 1997, specifying the
principles, procedures, and an enforcement mechanism governing access to the gas transportation
network, and the pricing of transportation services. By June 30, 1997, the Government will create
an interministerial commission to regulate access to the gas transmission network.



Attachment 4                                                Letter of Development Policy
13
(b)   By December 31, 1997, the Government will delegate the power to implement the
regulation of gas prices for final consumers to the Regional Energy Commissions according to
pricing principles and procedures to be prepared by the FEC.
3.    With respect to paragraph 40 in the Letter and the railways sector, the Ministry of
Railroads will, by December 31, 1997, make public an action plan for separating passenger and
freight services (including accounts) which will identify major assets and employee groups to be
allocated to each business.
4.    With respect to paragraph 23 of the Letter:
(a)   On April 3, 1997, the Government approved an action plan for the phased
elimination of cross-subsidies among consumer groups for all natural monopoly services.
(b)   By July 31, 1997, the Government will introduce a two-block tariff for household
electricity consumption that is differentiated by levels of consumption.
(c)   By June 30, 1997, the Government will publish official rules and procedures for
setting differentiated wholesale prices for natural gas. By September 30, 1997, the Government
will issue a resolution announcing that the regional wholesale natural gas price differential
between the minimum and maximum price will be increased from the current level of 12 percent
to at least 25 percent effective December 1, 1997. Until a competitive market for gas production
is introduced, wholesale gas prices will be regulated: (a) at the city gate, with tariffs of gas
transmission set separately; or, (b) as a combination of well-head prices and gas transmission
prices, each set separately.
(d)   With regard to the railways sector, by September 30, 1997, the Government will
reduce average rates for freight (total revenues divided by total ton-kilometers) by 5 percent
compared to rates effective in September 1997. These reductions in freight rates will be financed
by increasing passenger fares, reducing costs, and/or eliminating fare privileges for selected
passenger groups. The Government will explicitly include in the 1998 budget reimbursements to
the railways for any remaining federally mandated fare privileges for selected passenger groups.
5.    With reference to paragraph 22 of the Letter, to ensure the independence and
effectiveness of the regulatory agencies for energy (FEC), transport (FSRNMT), and the
telecommunications (FSRNMC), the Governnent will appoint the head of the FSRNMT; will
approve the composition of the boards of both the FSRNMT and FSRNMC; provide adequate
financing and office space for the agencies; and ensure that staff and commissioners of the
agencies will not be allowed to receive payments or other financial consideration from regulated
enterprises.



Attachment 4                                                      Letter of Development Policy
14
B. Private Sector Development
1. Agriculture
6.     With respect to paragraph 26 of the Letter, the presidential decree on land transactions
will: (a) establish the rights of parties to the transactions as well as the responsibilities of the
official agencies and entities involved in facilitating the transactions; and (b) describe step-by-
step procedures for carrying out the transactions, including documentation, registration, and the
resolution of disputes. The decree will also require relevant federal ministries and agencies to
carry out an information campaign which will instruct owners on the possible use of land and
property shares, and address in particular the consequences of investing land shares in the charter
capital of enterprises.
7.    With regard to the details of the measure described in paragraph 27 of the Letter, the
resolution on reorganization and/or liquidation of agricultural enterprises and organizations will
be consistent with the Federal Law on Bankruptcy and specify, inter alia: (a) the criteria to be
used when determining whether an agricultural enterprise is insolvent; (b) the different options
for resolution following a determination of insolvency, such as voluntary or involuntary
liquidation, reorganization with or without outside management and financing, and mutually
agreed debt workouts; (c) the sequence of actions by debtors, creditors, and government and
judicial officials and detailed procedures to be followed for each work-out option.
2 Capital Markets
8.    In order to improve accounting standards, the action program described in paragraph 28
of the Letter will be developed by an interministerial committee with CBR participation. The
program will: (a) identify any necessary amendments to laws or other normative acts to facilitate
the use of IAS by Russian issuers in public disclosure of financial information; (b) require the
FCSM to issue regulations by October 31, 1997, mandating lAS-consistent disclosure by January
1998 of financial information to investors by Russian enterprises whose securities have a
significant secondary market or which propose to offer their securities to the public, and to
require the same for all other enterprises by January 1999; and (c) outline a strategy and
timetable for adaptation of the entire accounting system for enterprises to bring it into conformity
with international practices. This strategy and timetable will also include: steps for transition to a
revised chart of accounts; a plan for training of accounting personnel; the introduction of a new
system for certification of professional accountants and auditors; and an approach to
development of accounting and audit practices such that any authorized system using accounting
information for tax purposes will not preclude IAS-consistent financial accounting information.
9.     With reference to paragraph 29 of the Letter, the framework for the taxation of capital
income should reflect the following principles: (a) uniformity of tax rates and treatment for
securities and other financial assets, including removal of tax privileges or exemptions for
specific types of securities; (b) elimination of double taxation on investment through collective



Attachment 4                                                  Letter of Development Policy
15
investment vehicles such as mutual funds; (c) deductibility of capital losses from the sale of
securities; and (d) no transaction taxes or fees on the circulation of securities.
3. Privatization
10.   With respect to paragraph 30 of the Letter concerning the procedures for case-by-case
privatization, the privatizations will be widely advertised domestically and internationally.
Financial advisors will be reputable, and valuation will be done based on international standards.
11.   With respect to paragraph 31 of the Letter: (a) the four case-by-case privatizations will
be chosen from the following list of 10 enterprises: Tyrnauz Tungsten-Molybdenum Kombinat
(Kabardino-Balkar oblast), Domodedovo Production Association for Civil Aviation (Moscow
oblast), Taganrog Sea Trade Port (Rostov oblast), Kamsk Pulp and Paper Kombinat (Perm
oblast), "Mosfilm" (Moscow), Lumber Factory No. 21 (Vologda oblast), wholly state owned
subsidiary enterprise of Samara GPP "Factory named after Maslenikova" (Samara), "Pulkovo"
Airlines (Leningrad oblast), state enterprise "Russkii Dizel" (St. Petersburg), "Rosgosstrakh"
(Moscow); (b) by June 30, 1997, the Government will invite financial advisors experienced in
case-by-case privatization to submit competitive bids to assist with the privatization of these
four enterprises; and (c) by August 31, 1997, the tender committees for the transactions will issue
the tenders on the sales, with wide Russian and international publicity.
12.   With respect to paragraph 32 of the Letter, by June 30, 1997, five large enterprises
outside the coal sector will be selected for pilot trust management arrangements; and by
December 31, 1997, the tenders for trust management of these five companies will be completed,
provided a decision to privatize these companies has not been reached by then.
13.   With reference to paragraph 33 of the Letter, by May 31, 1997, the Federal Bankruptcy
Agency will, based on an assessment of completed bankruptcy cases to date, develop and make
public recommendations to increase the speed and effectiveness of the bankruptcy process.
4. Urban Land and Real Estate
14.   With respect to the decree on the sale of undeveloped land noted in paragraph 35 of the
Letter, by October 31, 1997, model municipal regulations and procedures will be prepared for the
sale of unoccupied and/or undeveloped land through auctions and competitive tenders.
15.   With respect to the decree on sales of leased real estate noted in paragraph 36 of the
Letter, the decree will also make clear that any new leases of federally-owned property for
commercial use will be at market rates, and will recommend that all the procedures outlined in
the decree be followed by regional and local governments.



Attachment 4                                                 Letter of Development Policy
16
C. Foreign Trade
16.   Centralized trade will continue to be limited to arms exports and defense-related
equipment. Trade under intergovernmental agreements and credit arrangements guaranteed by
the government will be conducted on the basis of market-based procurement, with prices at
world levels, and related expenditures and receipts will be reflected in the budget.
17.   The Government will refrain from operating any system of export controls under the
guise of mandatory monitoring of the quantity, quality, or price of exports.
D. Fiscal Policy
1. Reform of Extrabudgetary Funds
18.   With respect to paragraph 38 of the Letter, by September 30, 1997, the Government will
complete a study of the Social Insurance Fund which explicitly identifies expenditure cuts
required to maintain financial balance while shifting 1 percentage points of the payroll tax to the
Pension Fund.
19.   With respect to paragraph 39 of the Letter, as a step towards improving the long-term
sustainability of the Pension Fund, the Pension Fund and the Ministry of Labor and Social
Development will complete, by June 30, 1997, in collaboration with other interested parties, a
review of the Pension Fund assessing its current financial status and actuarial prospects. This
review will also assess the financial impact of changes in the present system of benefits
(including eligibility requirements, incentives for later retirement, and increases in the retirement
age).
20.   To enhance payroll tax compliance and in preparation for long-term pension reform, pilot
programs of individual social security accounts and taxpayer identity numbers will be completed
in 12 regions during 1997. A program to extend the introduction of individual pension accounts
nationally, with identified financing, will be elaborated and published by the end of 1997.
2. Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
21.   With respect to paragraph 41 of the Letter, the draft legislation to be submitted to the
State Duma by April 30, 1997 will include the following components: (a) a definition of the
types of securities that can be issued by local/regional governments and extrabudgetary funds;
(b) the conditions for issuance of these securities (e.g., disclosure rules, collateral requirements,
and debt ceilings); and (c) exposure limits.



Attachment 4                                                 Letter of Development Policy
17
3. Budget System and Process
22.   The Government will make substantial progress in introducing the computerized treasury
system of accounting and direct payments. By September 30, 1997, 35 percent of the monthly
outlays of the federal budget will be processed through this system.
23.   With respect to budget formulation, the Government will consolidate the revenues and
expenditures of the social extrabudgetary funds (except the Pension Fund) in the draft 1998
budget.
24.   With respect to paragraph 44 of the Letter, beginning no later than June 30, 1997, all
grain and food procurement for federal needs will be subject to competitive tendering. The
Government will conduct no less than 10 competitive tenders for large (i.e., valued in excess of
Rub 50 billion) capital projects.
4. Tax Policy and Administration
25.   With respect to paragraph 46 of the Letter, see Annex Table 1.
E. Banking Sector Issues and Monetary Management
1. Bank Supervision
26.   With respect to paragraph 51 of the Letter, on-site inspections will investigate, for the
CBR's internal purposes, the net worth of the banks and the reliability of the information
submitted by them, as well as the quality of their credit portfolio.
27.   With respect to paragraph 53 of the Letter:
(a)   The CBR has prepared and approved a new chart of accounts for lending
institutions in conformity with International Accounting Standards. The finalized chart of
accounts will be applied by lending institutions in their reports as of January 1, 1998. By
end-1997, the CBR will prepare a regulation establishing consolidated reporting rules effective
January 1, 1999. In adopting International Accounting Standards and a new taxation system, the
CBR will aim at shifting to accrual-basis accounting.
(b)   By June 30, 1997, the CBR, the Ministry of Finance, and the State Tax Service
will revise the procedure of making and use of loan provisions, with a view to making the
necessary reserves in all cases where repayment in full is considered unlikely, including cases
where loans are not currently nonperforming but there are reasons to believe that the borrower is
insolvent. In doing so, the CBR, the Ministry of Finance, and the State Tax Service will not
allow banks' tax burdens to increase unduly as a result of the new provisioning rules.



Attachment 4                                                Letter of Development Policy
18
2. Monetary Operations
28.   With respect to paragraph 54 of the Letter:
(a)   The CBR will streamline procedures to allow the establishment of Lombard
facilities and one-day settlement credits to be collateralized by government securities by
September 30, 1997. To facilitate this, the CBR and MICEX will put into place arrangements for
banks to predeposit government securities in a special subsection of the deposit account of
commercial banks.
(b)   By May 31, 1997, the CBR will introduce reverse repo operations to allow for a
temporary reduction in the volume of liquidity in the banking system. The CBR will take steps to
establish by December 31, 1997 an interbank repo market for a wide number of banks both in
Moscow and in regions.
(c)   The CBR will continue to operate its deposit facility.
(d)   In 1997 the CBR will encourage the development of a depository institution
separate from the MICEX to expand the range of transactions with government securities, to
provide depository services across regions, and to provide easier access for retail investors to the
government securities market.
(e)   By September 30, 1997, the CBR will put into place an arrangement to allow
primary dealers to take short positions in government securities. By September 30, 1997, the
CBR will repeal the prohibition on the use by all banks of government securities as collateral and
will ensure that mechanisms are in place to pledge collateral for same-day transactions.
3. Payment System Reform
29.   With respect to paragraph 55 of the Letter:
(a)   The main objective of the CBR is to ensure banks' timely access to liquidity
during and at the end of the day. This will improve the efficiency of the payment system and
minimize the volume of payment rejections, thereby reducing the possibility of contagion
problems. To that end, on February 28, 1997, the CBR introduced a multi-window system for
processing commercial banks' payments in the Moscow region, making payments from banks'
accounts irrevocable once a payment order is submitted to the CBR. Following each window, the
CBR provides information to banks on their correspondent account balances. A "cut-off" hour
for same-day client payments has been introduced to allow banks to settle their positions before
the last window by borrowing in the interbank market or from the CBR.
(b)   By June 30, 1997, the CBR will issue draft normative acts for the Real Time
Gross Settlement (RTGS) system. The CBR aims to establish an RTGS system in the Moscow
region by January 1, 1998.



19
(c)    On January 31. 1997. the CBR published a price list for settlement services
provided to commercial banks. Pricing has been structured with a view to encouraging the use of
electronic payments, and a more uniform work flow during thc day. Prices for services will bc
introduced as of January 1, 1 998, with prices graduaily rising so as to compensate the CBR for
its costs.
m-ai\bIWIdp\Idpefa.doc April 29. 1997 4:27 PM
On behaLf of the Governrnent of                   On behaLf of the Central Bank of
the Rossian Federation:                           the Russian Federation:
+                                         _ _ _ __ _ _
.        *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Attachment 4                                                  Letter of Development Policy
20
Annex Table 1: Priority Measures in Tax Policy and Administration Reform
Priority Actions from the Government's Revenue Action Plan
I.    Establish large taxpayer units at the regional office to ensure the correct assessment and
timely payment of taxes, including advance payments, and to conduct tax audits for the
large taxpayers. (STS)
2.    Design and implement a procedure where tax payments are automatically prorated by the
banks according to the revenue distribution formulae. (Central Bank, MoF, STS)
3.    Ensure that tax administration personnel have appropriate physical security.
(Government, Tax Police)
4.    Design a strategy for collection of arrears, for the major taxes focusing on: (i) taxpayers
with the largest arrears and; (ii) taxpayers with arrears that have arisen in the most recent
periods. (STS)
5.    Develop methods to select taxpayers for audit on a consistent basis. (STS)
6.    Investigate and take appropriate action against 15 enterprises with the largest arrears.
(Emergency Tax Commission)
7.    Increase the staff and material and technical resources of the Tax Arrears units in order to
ensure effective collection enforcement against those delinquent taxpayers who are the
target of the Emergency Tax Commission. (Government, STS)
8.    Allow the tax authorities to seize delinquent taxpayers' bank deposits in any bank
account held by that taxpayer. (all relevant authorities)
9.    Expand the tax arrears monitoring system to track the largest debts individually by type
of tax and tax period. The system should also indicate the status of actions taken with
regard to the largest debts. (STS)
m:\sal96\ldp\ldpeff8.doc   April 29, 1997  4:27 PM






Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 1
NATURAL MONOPOLY REFORM
Policy Objective         Actions Taken            Actions Before Board Presentation of               Medium-term Structural Reform Program
SAL-I
1. Promote more    An Interministerial Commission   On April 28, 1997 Presidential Decree  (See detailed measures for each sector below.)
competitive        under the former Minister of   No. 426 "On Fundamental Principles of
market structures   Economy has completed a       Structural Reforms in Sectors of Natural
for the energy and  report with specific          Monopolies" was issued as outlined in
infrastructure     recommendations for            the Concept Paper "On Developing
industries,       restructuring the electricity,  Plans for Structural Reforms of Natural
natural gas, and railways      Monopolies" submitted to the
a) All sectors     sectors and submitted it to the    Government on March 26, 1997. The
Government on January 7,       decree instructs the Government to
1997.                          approve a detailed medium-term
restructuring program to be adopted by a
government resolution by June 30, 1997.
b) Electricity     The Moscow regional power      In the period up to April 30, 1997, the  By September 30, 1997, the Government will issue a resolution to
Sector:            company (MosEnergo) has        Government took steps to ensure that   create an independent nonprofit Wholesale Market Operator to
issued ADRs and to this end    the representative group of government   operate the wholesale electricity market, including the settlement and
has begun complying with       officials on the Board of RAO EES have   clearance of payments, and the Government will establish a
stricter and more transparent  clear instructions to implement        Supervisory Council for the Wholesale Market composed of
financial reporting            governmental policies in the electric  representatives of market participants (with no participant having a
requirements.                  power sector.                          dominant position) By September 30, 1997, the FEC will also make
public a Wholesale Market Agreement which specifies the duties and
The new Government                                                    responsibilities of the participants in the wholesale market.
appointed in March 1997 has
accelerated the design of                                             By June 30, 1997, the Government will outline general principles
reforms to restructure the power                                      (based on a report by the FEC) for the commercial licensing of
sector, beginning with a                                              enterprises participating in the wholesale market. By August 31.
thorough review of staffing                                           1997, the Government will issue a resolution giving the FEC exclusive
(leading to a change in RAO                                           authority to issue such licenses By September 30, 1997, the
EES Rossii management) and                                            Government will solicit public comments on drafts of each type of
finances.                                                            license, and by December 31, 1997. it will make the final versions
public.
By December 31, 1997, the Government will publish a plan to create a
sufficient number of generation companies independent of RAO EES
Rossii to establish a competitive wholesale market.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 2
Policy Objective       Actions Taken        Actions Before Board Presentation                   Medium-term Structural Reform Program
of SAL-I
1. (Ctd.) Promote    Gazprom's compliance                                      A government resolution will be issued by June 30, 1997, specifying the
more competitive    with the reporting                                         principles, procedures, and an enforcement mechanism governing access to the
market structures   requirements for its recent                                gas transportation network, and the pricing of transportation services. By
for the energy and   ADR issue has increased                                   June 30, 1997, the Government will create an interministerial commission to
infrastructure    the transparency of its                                      regulate access to the gas transmission network.
industries.        cost and financial
accounting systems                                          By December 31, 1997, the Government will delegate the power to implement the
c) Natural Gas                                                                 regulation of gas prices for final consumers to the Regional Energy Commissions
Sector:                                                                        according to pricing principles and procedures to be prepared by the FEC.
d) Railway Sector:                                                             By December 31, 1997, the Ministry of Railroads will make public an action plan
for separating passenger and freight services (including accounts) which will
identify major assets and employee groups to be allocated to each business.
2. Phase out       The Government has        On April 3, 1997, the Government   By June 30, 1997, the Government will establish principles and procedures for
cross-subsidies    committed to price reform   approved an action plan for the  the pricing of electricity, natural gas, and railways services. With a view to
and introduce     in the natural monopoly    phased elimination of cross-      encouraging efficient production and usage of these services, these pricing
pricing principles   industries in its "Medium-   subsidies among consumer groups  principles will (i) allow suppliers to recover prudently incurred fixed and variable
for natural        Term Program for 1997-    for all natural monopoly services  costs; (ii) require prices to reflect differences in cost between customer classes
monopoly services  2000: Restructuring and    (Government Resolution No. 389    and geographic regions; and (iii) over time, allow price adjustments to reflect the
in the electricity,    Economic Growth" that  "On the Gradual Reduction of     evolution of cost and demand conditions. In order to regulate prices, the
gas, and rail      was submitted to the      Cross-Subsidization in Sectors of    Government will prepare a list of information needs and presentational forms
sectors which will   State Duma on March 6,    Natural Monopolies")            (including details on proposed investment and the structure and cost of
encourage          1997, and expert groups                                     financing).
efficient          have begun price reform
production and     studies.                                                    By July 31, 1997, the Government will introduce a two-block tariff for household
usage.                                                                         electricity consumption that is differentiated by levels of consumption
The FEC has submitted to
the Government a                                            By June 30, 1997, the Government will publish official rules and procedures for
proposal to reduce cross-                                   setting differentiated wholesale prices for natural gas. By September 30, 1997,
subsidies for electricity                                  the Government will issue a resolution announcing that the regional wholesale
consumption.                                                natural gas price differential between the minimum and maximum price will be
increased from the current level of 12 percent to at least 25 percent effective
The Government has                                          December 1, 1997. Until a competitive market for gas production is introduced,
taken a first step to                                       wholesale gas prices will be regulated (a) at the city gate, with tariffs of gas
differentiate wholesale                                    transmission set separately: or, (b) as a combination of well-head prices and gas
natural gas prices across                                   transmission prices, each set separately
geographic regions based
on production and                                           By Septembei 30, 1997, the Government will reduce average rates for freight
transportation costs on                                    (total revenues divided by total ton-kilometers) by 5 percent compared to rates
February 1. 1997                                            effective in September 1997 These reductions in freight rates will be financed by
increasing passenger fares, reducing costs and/or eliminating fare privileges for
selected passenger groups The Government will explicitly include in the 1998
budget reimbursements to the railways for any remaining federally mandated fare
privileges for selected passenger groups



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Natural Monopoly Reform - Page 3
Policy Objective      Actions Taken       Actions Before Board Presentation                 Medium-term Structural Reform Program
of SAL-I
3. Reduce         The list of so-called   - The Government has made         Throughout 1997, the Government will ensure that there are no arrears to energy
payment arrears   "strategic customers"    adequate provisions in the 1997  suppliers on account of the remaining strategic customers.
on electricity and    whom energy providers    budget to pay for the fuel and
natural gas utility   cannot cut off from the  energy consumption of the
bills and improve   supply has been reduced   remaining "strategic customers"
the flow of       substantially. Some legal  who may not be disconnected for
payments in the    provisions prohibiting  nonpayment, as listed in the
fuel and energy   suppliers from cutting off   Government Decree 74, issued
sector            strategic customers have   January 28, 1997.
been revoked, including
recently provisions under
Government Resolution
No. 307 of April 7, 1994.
4. Further        Regulatory Commissions                                    To ensure the independence and effectiveness of the regulatory agencies for
strengthen the    have been established for                                 energy (FEC), transport (FSRNMT), and the telecommunications (FSRNMC), the
regulation of the    the energy, transport, and                             Government will appoint the head of the FSRNMT; will approve the composition
natural monopoly  telecommunications                                        of the boards of both the FSRNMT and FSRNMC; provide adequate financing
sectors.          sectors. Budget funds                                     and office space for the agencies; and ensure that staff and commissioners of
have been released to                                    the agencies will not be allowed to receive payments or other financial
raise FEC staffing levels                                consideration from regulated enterprises.
closer to mandated levels. C
mrAsa(97\matrix.new\monop7.doc May 15, 1997 06:18 PM                                                                              version date 515/97



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 1
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
I. Privatization
Policy Objective    Actions Taken            Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL-I                 Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
1. Revitalize   New Government   On April 1 and May 12, 1997, the Government issued Resolutions-
privatization   privatization      No. 363 ("On the Procedure Governing the Implementation of Case-
with establishing  program and draft  by-Case Privatization Projects") and No. 564 ('On the Introduction of
the legal basis   law on           Changes in Resolution No. 363 of the Government of the Russian
for a credible  privatization de-    Federation Dated April 1, 1997 'On the Procedure Governing the
high-quality    emphasize          Implementation of Case-by-Case Privatization Projects' ") specifying
case-by-case    revenue targets    rules and implementation procedures for case-by-case privatization
privatization   and envisage the   requiring them to be fully open and competitive (including through
program for     reduction, and     equal and open access to domestic and foreign buyers), and using
large           possibly           openly and competitively selected, internationally reputable financial
enterprises.    elimination, of    advisors. The privatizations will be widely advertised domestically
insider privileges.  and internationally. Enterprises will be valued at market prices or, if
they are not traded, based on standard business valuation
procedures Financial advisors will be reputable, and valuation will
be done based on international standards.
2 Build a       The Government   On May 15, 1997, the Government selected four companies from the  By June 30, 1997, the Government will invite financial
pipeline of     identified a list of   following list of 10 enterprises for case-by-case privatization in 1997   advisors experienced in case-by-case privatizations to
suitable        candidate          under the principles established by Government Resolutions No. 363  submit competitive bids to assist with the privatization of
enterprises for   companies and    and No 564 Tyrnauz Tungsten-Molybdenum Kombinat (Kabardino-  the four selected enterprises
case-by-case    begun examining   Balkar Oblast), Domodedovo Production Association for Civil
privatization and  their suitability for  Aviation (Moscow Oblast), Taganrog Sea Trade Port (Rostov  By August 31, 1997, the tender committees for the
start privatizing   case-by-case   Oblast), Kamsk Pulp and Paper Kombinat (Perm Oblast), Mosfilm  transactions will issue the tenders on the sales, with wide
them according   privatization.   (Moscow), Lumber Factory No. 21 (Vologda Oblast), Troitsk Iodine    Russian and international publicity.
to the approved                    Plant (Orenburg Oblast), Pulkovo Airlines (Leningrad Oblast), State
procedures.                        Enterprise Russkii Dizel (St. Petersburg), Rosgosstrakh (Moscow).    By December 31, 1997, the tender committees will close
These four enterprises are: Domodedovo Production Association for  the tenders and select the winners while issuing public
Civil Aviation, Kamsk Pulp and Paper Kombinat, Pulkovo Airlines,  offerings as needed. However, if it becomes impossible
and Rosgosstrakh. Three enterprises have been selected as    to privatize one of the four companies as planned,
possible substitutes if the implementation of case-by-case    because of insurmountable legal or technical difficulties
privatization of any of the four above enterprises prove impossible    that constitute a case of "force majeure", the Government
because of insurmountable legal or technical difficulties that  will substitute another company from the original list of
constitute a case of force majeure. These are: Mosfilm, Russkii  ten.
Dizel, and Taganrog Sea Trade Port. (GKI Directive 356-r.)
Also, by June 30, 1997, the Government will issue a
On April 24, 1997, the Government appointed tender committees for  resolution selecting about 25 more companies to be
these privatizations (GKI Directive 317-r).                   privatized during 1998-99.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 2
Policy Objective       Actions Taken        Actions Before Board Presentation of                Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
SAL-I
3. Establish         Presidential decree                                           By June 30, 1997. the Government will issue a resolution with implementing
institutions and     No. 1660 was issued on                                        guidelines for trust management arrangements that require the competitive
policies that create a  December 9, 1996,                                          selection of trust managers. The guidelines will also provide for the
framework for arms-   establishing the general                                     specification of performance indicators and performance-based
length governance of  framework for trust                                          compensation that are linked to financial results. The resolution will stipulate
large and often      management                                                   that the terms and conditions of trust management contracts will be
monopolistic         agreements, specifying                                        established only by acts of GKI.
enterprises that    the functions a trust
continue to be state    manager can fulfill                                        By June 30, 1997, five large enterprises outside the coal sector will be
owned/controlled,    without consultation                                          selected for pilot trust management arrangements.
so as to improve the   with Government.
efficiency of state                                                                By December 31, 1997, the tenders for trust management of the five
asset management                                                                   companies will be completed, provided that no decision to privatize these
and the quality of                                                                 companies has been reached to then.
later privatization.
4. Facilitate market-  The Government                                              By May 31. 1997, the Federal Bankruptcy Agency will, based on an
based exit of non-   submitted a new draft                                         assessment of completed bankruptcy cases to date, develop and make
viable enterprises by  bankruptcy bill to the                                      public recommendations to increase the speed and effectiveness of the
addressing the       State Duma. The bill                                          bankruptcy process.
weaknesses in the    has passed the first
legal framework for   reading in the State                                         By September 30, 1997. the Government will take the necessary legislative
bankruptcy.          Duma.                                                         steps to provide for. (i) an increased role for creditor committees in the
resolution of insolvency cases; (ii) the expeditious appointment on a
competitive basis of licensed trustees with authority to replace incumbent
enterprise managers; (iii) due respect for the classes of creditors (with
secured creditors having priority); and (iv) the strict observance of time limits
for workout and liquidation proceedings by all parties



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 3
11. Urban Land and Real Estate
Policy Objective         Actions Taken        Actions Before Board Presentation of           Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
SAL-I
1. Creating a leasing     Buyouts of competitively                                     By June 30, 1997, a presidential decree will be issued to create a
market for commercial real  leased commercial real                                     legal framework requiring that the sale of all premises belonging to
estate by modifying existing  estate were mandated                                     the federal government which are currently under lease to
regulations to discourage    in 1994 privatization                                     commercial entities be carried out at a market rates. All existing
local Governments from    program.                                                     restrictions on the sale of such real estate will also be eliminated.
restricting competitive                                                                The decree will also make clear that any new leases of federally-
leasing and sale of       A draft law on                                               owned property for commercial use will be at market rates, and will
premises and to ensure   registration of                                               recommend that all the procedures outlined in the decree be
that transactions are     ownership of real estate                                     followed by regional and local governments.
conducted at market rates.  assets is under
discussion in the State
Duma.
2. Enable privatized      The right of enterprises   Presidential Decree No. 485 "On
enterprises to acquire the   to acquire the land on    Guarantees to Owners of Real Estate to
land on which they are    which they are located    Buy Land on Which These Assets Are
located, which will enable    was established in  Located" was issued on May 16, 1997 to
them to sell or mortgage  principle by presidential  establish the necessary legislative
their land to finance     decree in 1992 and     framework to enable all owners of
necessary restructuring  reinforced by the       privatized non-land real estate assets
and/or relocate to areas  privatization program for  (including production complexes,
more appropriate to their    1995.               buildings, and unfinished construction) to
business activities                              acquire the land on which these assets
are located. For all future privatization of
such assets, the associated land plots will
be included in the transaction package.
3. Create a market for    Law on zoning currently                                      By September 30, 1997, a presidential decree will be issued to
undeveloped/unused urban  under discussion in the                                      establish a legal framework for market-based sales of undeveloped
land within and bordering    State Duma.                                               land and/or land not currently in use (including nonagricultural land
city limits for commercial                                                             bordering city limits) to be used for commercial development,
development by assigning                                                               including through auctions and competitive tenders.
regions and municipalities
the authority to allocate                                                              By October 31, 1997, model municipal regulations and procedures
undeveloped land                                                                       will be prepared for the sale of unoccupied and/or undeveloped land
(including within and                                                                  through auctions and competitive tenders.
bordering cities).



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Private Sector Development - Page 4
Ill. Capital Markets
Policy Objective          Actions Taken           Actions before Board                     Medium-Term Structural RefDrm Program
_____                          ~~~~~~~~Presentation of SAL-
1. Improve thie quality of0 i to lAS is identified as                          BAugust 31, 1997, the Government will approve and publish for public
financial information    a priority area for reform in j                       comment an agreed Action Program to introduce generally accepted accounting
available for managers   the Government's                                     pinciples consistent with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
and investors and help   Medium-Term Program for
attract more capital     Structural Reforms: 1997-                             The Action Program will: (i) identify any necessary amendments to laws or other
through the development   2000: Restructuring and                              normative acts to facilitate the use of lAS by Russian issuers in disclosure of
and implementation of      Economic Growthi" that                             financial information; (ii) require the RFCSCM to issue regulations by October
financial accounting and    was submitted to the State  I31, 1997 mandating lAS-consistent disclosure by January 1998 of financial
rporting standards for   Duma on March 6, 1997.                              information to investors by Russian enterprises which have a significant
enterprises consistent with                                                    secondary market in their securities or which propose to offer their securities to
IInternational Accounting                                                      the public, and to require the same for all other enterprises by January 1999;
Standards (lAS).                                                              and (iii) outline a strategy and timetable for adaptation of the entire accounting
System for enterprises to bring it into conformity with international practices.
This strategy and timetable will include: steps for transition to a revised chart of
accounts; a plan for training of accounting personnel; the introduction of a new
System for certification of professional accountants and auditors; and an
approach to developing accounting and audit practices such that any authorized
System using accounting information will not preclude lAS-consistent financial
_____~~~~~~.  .~~~~               accounting information.
2. Reform the taxto  f An interagency working                                  The Government will submit draft legislation to the State Duma by September
capital income toipoe group including, inter alia,                             30, 1997 to introduce an improved framework for the taxation of capital income.
the efficiency oalctIo  the Ministry of Finance and                            This framework should reflect the following principles: (i) uniformity of tax rates
of capitaf, mobilize   'Ithe RFCSCM has been                                   and treatment for securities and other financial assets, including removal of tax
domestic savings and     reviewing tax policies                                privileges or exemptions for specific types of securities; (ii) elimination of double 
attract foreign investment   affecting capital markets,                        taxation on investment through collective investment vehicles such as mutual
including the elimination of                         funds; (iii) deductibility of capital losses from the sale of securities; and (iv) no
double taxation of                                  transaction taxes or fees on the circulation of securities.
icorporate income.
m:\sa]97\rn.atrix.new\psdmatll.doc May 16,1997 11.24 AM                                                                               version date: 5/15/97



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Reform - Page I
FISCAL REFORM
......e   e                    Aton  aknActions Before Board_Presentation of SAL-1                    Medium-Term Structural Reform PFrogram.
1. Undertake           Development of draft Tax Code.     The Government intends to undertake a       By May 31, 1997, the Government intends to
fundamental tax reform                                    significant reform of tax policy through the draft  review the progress of work on the Tax Code,
to strengthen the      Replace the use of the mark-up     Tax Code, which was submitted to the State  and assess the prospects for its timely pasae
revenue base while     method for VAT assessment with the    Duma on April 30, 1997. The Government   IthcoexofharviwteGvrnntwill 
Ireducing the distortionary  credit method in retail, catering and    intends to work closely with the State Duma to    consider the need for accelerating key reforms
impact of the tax system.  services industries (extended from  secure passage of the Code.            through the preparation and submission to the
manufacturing and wholesale sectors).                                         State Duma of separate legislation covering
a) Design overall tax                                     Among many improvements, the Code           certain taxes or needed reforms.
reform package         Adoption in January 1997 of Law on    envisages the elimination or phase-out of almost
Amendments to the Federal Law on    all existing exemptions for the VAT and the
b) Reform of the       the Personal Income Tax to include  deduction of all business expenses when
structure of individual  selected categories of non-wage  measuring the profit tax base. It also includes
taxes                  income in tax base.                the adoption of accrual accounting under both
the VAT and the profit tax; the indexation of
Adoption in January 1997 of Law on    specific excise rates for inflation; the elimination
Introducing Amendments and         of preferential rates under the profit tax; and a
Additions to the Federal Law on    simplification of filing requirements under the
Excises to tighten the definition of the   profit tax and personal income tax.
excise tax base and shift from ad
valorem to specific excise taxes for  On April 4, 1997, the Government eliminated the
alcohol and tobacco sales (so as to    tax deductibility of transfers by RAO EES Rossii
avoid losses from under-invoicing),    to its investment fund, with no accompanying
increase in electricity prices (Government
Resolution No. 390)



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Reform - Page 2
Policy Objective             Actions Taken               Actions before Board Presentation of SAL-I  Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
2. Develop an efficient    A high-level Emergency Tax     In the period up to May 15, 1997, the
and impartial tax      Commission was created, based on   Government notified more than 15 of the largest
administration that can    Presidential Decree No. 1428 of  debtors to the federal budget that within one
overcome a pervasive   October 11, 1996.                  month, they will have to decide among three
'non-payment culture,"                                    options for resolving their outstanding tax
through a broad based    In November 1996 the Government    arrears: (i) paying their arrears in full; (ii)  The Revenue Action Plan adopted by the
reform of management,   approved a Revenue Action Plan,   participating in the announced scheme of    Government in November/December 1996 will
procedures, and        which focuses on tax administration  collateralized restructuring of arrears; and (iii)    serve as the framework for the 1997 program in
practices of the State  and includes legislative changes as    initiating bankruptcy proceedings.    the area of tax administration. This action plan
Tax Service (STS) and    well as a host of organizational and                                         will be expanded as required in the context of
Customs Committee and   procedural reforms, including tax                                             ongoing technical assistance work, with
improved coordination  assessment, collection, audit, and                                             additional measures to be specified by June 30,
with other agencies    arrears policies.                                                              1997.
including tax and border
police.                Under the Action Plan, the         The Government endorsed an action plan to   The Government will proceed with the phased
Government has begun to compile    establish large taxpayer units in the State Tax    establishment of large taxpayer units in 15 key
lists of large taxpayers and tax   Service (STS Orders No. BA-3-20/27 of      regions to enhance compliance for large
debtors.                           February 17, 1997, BA-3-32/57 of March 25,  enterprises.
1997, and PV-3-32/104 of May 13, 1997).
The Government has put in place an action plan
Obligatory use of excise stamps for    to strengthen the collection of alcohol taxes,
domestically produced alcohol.    including steps to control domestic commercial
traffic in excisable goods, to ensure that the
excise tax on domestic alcohol and alcohol
products is payable at the time of shipment, and
to improve the excise stamp program
(Government Resolution No. 297 of March 14,
1997, submission of the draft Tax Code to the
Duma on April 30, 1997, and various Customs
Committee orders).



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Reform - Page 3
Policy Objec ive              Actions Taken               Actions Before Board Presentation of SAL-I   Medium-Term Structural Reform  rogram
3. Improve the system   Definition of the federal budget deficit  The Government confirmed in early May 1997    The Government intends to complete by end-
and process of budget   in accrual terms for the 1997 program   that a mechanism was put in place for the  1997 the implementation of the mechanism for
management.            so that deficit targets cannot be met    Treasury to issue directly payment orders for  the Treasury to issue directly payment orders
through arrears accumulation.      wages of the Ministry of Defense.           wages of the Ministry of Defense, barring
a) Prioritize wage and                                                                                 unanticipated technical problems.
pension payments and    Adoption by the Government of a    On May 12, 1997, Presidential Decree No. 467
design appropriate     schedule for clearing federal wage and  ('On Terminating the Practice of Issuing
Treasury controlled     pension arrears during 1997.       Guarantees and Warrants Covered by the
payment mechanism.                                         Federal Budget") was issued eliminating the
system of government guarantees on
commercial bank financing of budgetary
oroanizations and enterpises.
b) Maximize             Draft organic budget law is prepared.   The Government submitted to the State Duma,
transparency and                                           on April 30, 1997, a law proposing expenditure
minimize disruptions                                       ceilings for 1997 which are consistent with the
through ad-hoc                                             program. This level of expenditure will be
sequestration.                                             sufficient to provide for the basic needs of the
Federal Government while at the same time
ensuring that there will be no incurrence of new
arrears.
c) Switch to new        System linking Federal Treasury with                                            the Government will make substantial progress
computerized Treasury    Regional Treasuries is in place but                                           in introducing the computerized treasury system
system of accounting.  works in parallel with the existing                                             of accounting and direct payments. By
system. Only some of the ministries                                            September 30, 1997, the Government intends to
report on the new system so far.                                               process 35 percent of the monthly outlays of the
federal budget through this system.
d) Move extrabudgetary   In the 1997 Budget Law, the                                                   The Government will consolidate all revenues
funds onto the budget    Government recommended that                                                   and expenditures of the social extrabudgetary
and the treasury system.  regional administrations consolidate                                         funds (except the Pension Fund) in the draft
all regional EBFs.                                                             1998 budget.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Fiscal Reform - Page 4
",Policy Objective               Actions Taken               Actions before Board Presentation of SAL-I     Medium-Term Structural Reform ProFgam
4. Reform public         Draft procurement law has been       Presidential Decree No. 305 "On Priority      The Government will submit to the State Duma
procurement by           completed and is being discussed     Measures to Combat Corruption and Reduce      of appropriate draft legislation to) reform public
introducing competitive    within the Government.             Budget Expenditures Through Organizing        procurement procedures by June 30, 1997.
bidding procedures.                                          Auctions to Procure Goods, Construction Works,
and Services for State Needs" was issued on   Beginning no later than June 30, 1997 all grain
April 8, 1997 to reform public procurement    and food procurement for federal needs will be
procedures, requiring standardized, competitive,  subject to competitive tendering.
open, and nondiscriminatory bidding procedures,
and establishing conflict of interest regulations.    The Government will conduct no less than 1 0
The decree requires competitive bidding       competitive tenders for large (i.e. valued in
procedures for all federal agencies.          excess of Rbl 50 billion) capital projects.
5. Improve system of    The Government has signaled its                                                     By June 30, 1997, the Government will finalize a
intergovernmental fiscal  intention to work towards the systemic                                           work program to reform tax sharing and transfer
relations.               reform of tax sharing and transfer                                                 arrangements. The goal of this work program
arrangements. An informal working                                                  would be to implement the reform of the transfer
a) Rationalize tax      group has been created within the                                                   arrangements (including the expanded use of
sharing and transfer     Ministry of Finance to begin                                                       conditional transfers) in the context of the 1998
formulas and introduce    developing reform proposals in this                                               budget and to reform tax sharing in the context
conditional transfers to    area.                                                                           of the 1999 budget.
encouragelo.cal reforms.
b) Put in place improved   The Government has prepared a draft   On May 12, 1997, comprehensive legislation  The federal government will continue to refra'in
regulation of subnational  presidential decree and agreed to  regulating subnational government borrowing   from any guarantees on borrowing by
borrowing.               submit legislation enhancing        was submitted to the State Duma, which defines   subnational units and entities.
regulation of bank borrowing, bond  the types of securities that can be issued, the
issues and other debt instruments by    conditions for issuance of these securities, and
regional/local authority and         exposure limits. This draft legislation includes
extrabudgetary funds.               the following components: (i) a definition of the
types of securities that can be issued by
local/regional governments and extrabudgetary
funds; (ii) the conditions for issuance of these
securities (e.g., disclosure rules, collateral
requirements, and debt ceilings); and (iii)
rnA,sa197\rnatrix.new\1iscal1O.doC May 15, 1997 08:38 PM                                                                                version date: 5/15197



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Banking Reform - Page 1
BANKING REFORM
Policy Objective    -     Actions Taken         Actions Before Board Presentation of           Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
SAL-I
1. Facilitate resolution of  CBR defined criteria for  On the basis of its evaluation of the    On the basis of plans submitted by problem banks, the CBR shall
illiquid or insolvent  identifying problem banks and  largest 200 banks and other     decide, no later than June 30, 1997, whether these banks can be
banks,                 for determining whether      available information, the CBR has    recapitalized and rehabilitated, or whether other statutory procedures
affected banks are of       identified those banks that have  as per the banking legislation should apply which may include the
systemic or social importance.  negative capital or other serious  withdrawal of bank licenses.
CBR completed evaluation of   problems. At end-February 1997 the
200 largest banks according    CBR informed such banks that they
to these criteria,          will be required to prepare plans for
increasing their capital and for their
International audits of the  operational rehabilitation, for
largest individual banks have   submission to the CBR on or before
been conducted.             April 30, 1997.
2. Put in place effective   A bill on bankruptcy and                                  The Government and the CBR will take measures to ensure State
bank bankruptcy and    liquidation of banks was                                       Duma deliberation of the law on bankruptcy of lending institutions and
liquidation legisfation.    drafted and submitted to                                  will take steps to facilitate passage of this law.
State Duma.
3. Ensure that any                                                                    The Government and the CBR will take measures to ensure State
deposit guarantee                                                                      Duma deliberation of the law on deposit insurance and will take steps
scheme that is adopted                                                                to facilitate passage of this law. Any deposit insurance schemes that
has prudent coverage of                                                               is implemented will be funded only by premiums of participating banks
financial institutions and                                                             and the associated investment income, with no use of CBR or
deposits and is self-                                                                  government resources.
financing.
4. Strengthen banking    A new unit was created     On-site inspections of 19 of the   On-site inspections of 15 of the largest 100 banks will be completed
supervision through    within the CBR to supervise   largest 1 00 banks have been     in each of the remaining quarters of 1997
greater use of on-site  operations and facilitate   completed in the first quarter of
inspections and        settlements of largest banks.  1997                            The CBR will continue to improve the system of prudential regulations
improved prudential                                                                   established by Instruction 1 of January 30, 1996, with a view to
regulations.           CBR established revised      In March 1997, steps were taken to    moving prudential regulations closer to international standards.
prudential requirements and   modify the current legislation in order  During 1997, the CBR will, inter alia: revise procedures for calculating
procedures for penalizing  to specify the procedures for       banks' own resources (capital); increase capital adequacy
banks for non-compliance,    withdrawing bank licenses and for    requirements and lower the tied credit ratio; and introduce necessary
the subsequent timely liquidation of   changes in the calculation of banks' prudential requirements, with a
the delicensed institutions,      view to incorporating off-balance-sheet claims and liabilities.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Banking Reform - Page 2
Policy Objective          Actions Taken        Actions Before Board Presentation of          Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
SAL-I
5. Reform accounting   The CBR has prepared and                                      The finalized chart of accounts will be applied by lending institutions  i
requirements for banks  I approved a new chart of                                    in their deposits as of January 1, 1998. By end-1 997, the CBR will
by moving toward       accounts for lending                                          prepare a regulation establishing consolidated reporting rules
i international standards.  institutions in conformity with                           effective January 1, 1999. In adopting International Accounting
International Accounting                                      Standards and a new taxation system, the CBR will aim at shifting to
Standards.                                                   accrual-basis accounting.
By June 30, 1997, the CBR, MinFin, and STS will revise the
procedure of making and use of loan provisions, with a view to
making the necessary reserves in all cases where repayment in full is
X  considered unlikely, including cases where loans are not currently
* nonperforming but there are reasons to believe that the borrower is
insolvent. In doing so, the CBR, the Ministry of Finance, and the
State Tax Service will not allow banks' tax burdens to increase unduly
aaresult of the newpvion~  rules.
6. Improve functioning of  In March 1996, the CBR                                    By September 30,1997, the CBR will streamline procedures to allow
money markets by       created Lombard facilities, on                                the establishment of Lombard facilities and one-day settlement
putting in place new   a pilot basis, for up to 30-                                  credits to be collateralized by government securities. To facilitate
monetary instruments    days borrowing collateralized                                this, the CBR and MICEX will put into place arrangements for banks
and developing open    by government securities                                      to predeposit government securities in a special subsection of the
market operations to                                                                 deposit account of commercial banks.
give banks the liquidity   In October 1996, the CBR
management tools       introduced two-day                                            By May 31, 1997, the CBR will introduce reverse repo operations to
available in other     repurchase agreements with                                    allow for a temporary reduction in the volume of liquidity in the
developed banking      primary dealers.                                              banking system. The CBR will take steps to establish by December
systems.                                                                             31, 1997 an interbank repo market for a wide number of banks both in
As of May 1996, CBR                                           Moscow and in the regions.
rationalized guidelines for
meeting reserve                                               By September 30,1997, the CBR will put into place an arrangement
* requirements to improve                                     to allow primary dealers to take short positions in government
within-month bank liquidity.                                  securities, and it will also repeal the prohibition on the use by all
banks of government securities as collateral, and will ensure that
mechanisms are in place to pledge collateral for same-day
transactions.



Attachment 5: Policy Reforms Program Matrix
Banking Reform - Page 3
Policy Objective          Actions Taken         Actions Before Board Presentation of           Medium-Term Structural Reform Program
SAL-I
7. Improve payment     CBR published a strategy in   On February 28, 1997, the CBR    By June 30, 1997, the CBR will issue normative drafts for the Real-
system by introducing a   April 1996 with its goals for   introduced a multi-window system for  Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system.
real-time gross        payment system reform and    processing commercial banks'
settlement system and    released a draft schedule for   payments in Moscow region, making   By January 1,1998, the CBR aims to establish an RTGS system in
providing incentives for   its phased implementation.    payments from banks' accounts  the Moscow region.
banks to use new                                   irrevocable once a payment order is
electronic settlement  Inter-regional and CBR       submitted to the CBR. Following
services.              payment services have been   each window, the CBR provides
upgraded through: a dial-in   information to banks on their
system that allows Moscow    correspondent account balances. A
banks to obtain partial     "cut-off hour for same-day client
information on their current    payments was introduced to allow
positions; a system of bank    banks to settle their positions during
identification codes; and a  the last window by borrowing in the
legal framework for        interbank market or from the CBR.
establishing private
settlement and clearing
houses.
On January 31, 1997, the                                      Prices for settlement services will be introduced as of January 1,
CBR published a price list for                                 1998, with prices gradually rising so as to compensate the CBR for
settlement services provided                                  its costs.
to commercial banks. Pricing ,
has been structured with a
view to encouraging the use
of electronic payments and a
more uniform work flow
m:\sal97Vmatrix.new-banking8.doc May 15, 1997 06:19 PM                                                                              version date: 5/15/97






MAPSECTION






IBRD 271 S8R
I  UNITEDO51ATE5 OF A/MEfiA
The bo-ndorr-, cor., do-nootri-                                                                                                                                                         _                                                             <
and ony othr- fh-rmooon shoo, Arn                                                                                    RUSSIAN I"
d1mpo not im ply,, on i porn ofR                                                                                          S    I          FEDERATION                                                                        Chui
Vr th. Iq./ 'AlDNsof -pey rtrris                                                                           REPUBLICS, KRAIS, OBLASTS, OKRUGS
any mdor--mrtn or o.-eptnn.- of , d
sock b-ondo-nt.                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                     r                        RE rtn
RIVERS                                                                                 fe 
-.~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                            -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
UNI'E,                                               03OBL AST, K RAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                   86  /
'-  UNITED   ~"                                                                                       J
KINCi30009                        Norweg:nn or  Sen                                        77       ;8~                   -        AUTONOMOUSOS OBLAST, OKRUG, OR REPUBUC BOUNDARIES
I- NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                E.sr S;b.
ka.v wt.o 0,A4Vqof Abi, KA -Oo                td Khtok,1I Syt
NORWAY                       fo**6 
r,eTrrarrMnos   L.           ~~~~~SWEDEN                                                                                                                          S -''
GERMANY                                                         J'                                    '                '                 '-
$~~~~~~~~ asv 15CI                                                                                                                                                                X 76
en 493 3                   ,0 K       -                                                                                                                                 ,,. ,2  .   r  xi
3U       i                                                         ,,r             'ta o             64 4,    -.
005,40E   '-' t h                                           UZBESOA      ~_    0        2u0   400   000   000 KI,OntTElSS-,E                                             M O  N G O   I A                                          /                 IOE  +
OROStOP ~   t,... tr.,j  SEtI Ot
INORTH           11 NORTHWEST                   111 CENTRAL                  IV CENTRA[               V NORTH CAUCASUS              VI. VOLGA             VII. VOLGO-VYATKCA        VIII URAL             IS. WESTERN SIBERIA      S EASTERN SIBERIA        XI PAR EAST
1. Arlrlrngel      7 Novgorod              12. 3ryonsk  22. Tuola               CHERNOZYOM            30 Chrchenr                  .40. Astroltlror        48. Churonot             53. Baolrlortostan    61 AItai                 70. Boryot                80. Amrrr
2. Nenoro       8 Pskrov                 13 Ivnonvo   23. Vlrdiotrr        25. Bdgorod              31 Do9Iresron                41. Kolmtykio-         49. Kirov                54 Clrelyabitsk           62. Gorny Allot      71 Chrto                  RI. Kaotolotko
3. Kgreliz         9. leningrasd            14 Kolugo   24. Yoroslonl        26. Kursrk                32. Ingushr                      Khrolmg Trongolt    SD. Moriy El            55. Kurgon            63. Kerterono                72. Agro Boryot          82. Koryok
4. KUomi          10. St Petersloorg Cily   15 Kostromo                      27. Lipetslt              33. Kobordino-Bolkor         42. Prnzo              51. Mordov               56. Orenburg          64 Nonotib,rtk           73 lrkottk                83. Kltoboron,k
S Morotonslr                                16 Moscoov                       2R. Tatromon              34. Koosnodor                43. Sattoro            52. Nizhrniy Novgorod    57. Perot             o5. Oot,k                   74. Ust-Ordyn Boryrn,     84. Soot/sI AO
6 Vologdo                                   17 Moscn C8ty                    29 Vorn r                    35. Adygeyo               44. Sorzto.                                         58. Kooti-Permiok  66ri. Tomsk             75. Krosnoyorsk           85. Mogodon
18 OrnI                                                   36. North Osseko              45. Totorston                                   59. Udmort            67. Tyrnen                   76. Evnnnl               86. Chutolt
19. Ryczon                                                37. Roston                    46. Volgogrod                                   60. Snerdionsls          68. Klsanty-Mons,        77. Kholsas            87. Priotorski
20. Smolensls                                              38. Strora rpal              47. Ulyottovsl                                                           69. Yaomlo-Nenets         78. Toiotir           88. SoItIai,n
I11 Kolirnrrgrad         21 Toer                                                       39. Kroroclrneno-Clterkess                                                                                               79. Tuor                  89 Sranhta lYokoll
DECEMSER 1991









IMAGING
Report No. P           7119    RU
Type~   PR



