Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H126 CD 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Local Development Program Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated    September 30, 2004 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H126 CD 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  September 30, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Recipient, dated 
October 27, 2003, describing a program of actions and objectives designed, 
inter alia
,
to 
support the Recipient’s decentralization and local development policy (the Program) and 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program;  
(B) 
the Recipient has requested that the Association assist in the financing of 
the Program through a series of grants or credits over a period of approximately twelve 
years to be utilized by the Recipient in the implementation of the Program; and 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  3
-
2
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means a community-based organization or a decentralized 
local government entity (
communautés rurales 
in rural areas
 
and
 communes 
in urban 
areas) established and operating under the laws of the Recipient in the Project Area (as 
hereinafter defined), which has met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project 
Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined), and the requirements of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, and, as a result, has received or is entitled to receive a Subproject Grant 
(as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);  
(b) 
“CFA Francs” or “CFAF” means 
Franc de la Coopération Financière en 
Afrique Centrale
,
the currency of the Recipient;  
(c) 
“CLTO”  means the Chadian Land Tenure Office (
Observatoire du 
Foncier au Tchad
), established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 
215/PR/MES/2001 dated April 24, 2001; 
(d) 
 “Departmental DAC” means each of the Recipient’s Decision and 
Approval Committees established and operating at the departmental (
département
)
level 
in the Project Area pursuant to the Recipient’s
 
Arrêté
 No. 008/MATUH/SG/03 dated 
October 14, 2003 (the Project Implementation Arrêté), and responsible for the selection 
and approval of Subprojects at the departmental (
département
)
or sub-prefectoral (
sous-
préfecture
)
level, as the case may be, in the Project Area; 
(e) 
 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the 
document, adopted by the Recipient on October 20, 2002, consisting of: (i) a framework 
outlining the modalities for environmental screening and rules and procedures for the 
preparation and implementation of environmental assessments to be complied with, as the 
case may be, prior to carrying out a Subproject; and (ii) modalities for social analysis and 
a
resettlement policy framework outlining the modalities for land acquisition, 
resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced persons under a Subproject; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out and financing a 
Subproject; 
(h) 
“LPMU” means each of the three Local Project Management Units of 
PMU (as hereinafter defined) at  MLMUH (as hereinafter defined) established and 
Page  4
-
3
-
operating at the inter-regional (
région
)
level in the Project Area,  pursuant to the Project 
Implementation Arrêté; 
(i) 
“MD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Decentralization; 
(j) 
“MEF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
(k) 
“MFTU” means the Micro-Finance Technical Unit at MEF, established 
and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s 
Arrêté
 No. 293/MF/SE/DG/2002 dated 
November 13, 2002; 
(l) 
“MLMUH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Land Management, 
Urbanism and Habitat; 
(m) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization, established and 
operating in the territory of the Recipient; 
(n) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit at MLMUH established and 
operating  pursuant to the Project Implementation Arrêté; 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated 
July 28, 2004, covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project implementation, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation; 
(p) 
 “Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual” means the 
manual outlining the administrative, financial and accounting arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual; 
(r) 
“Project Area” means the Recipient’s departments  (
départements
)
of
Mandoul Occidental, Mandoul Oriental, Bahr Sara, Dodje, Lac Weye, Ngourkosso, 
Tandjile Est, Tandjile Ouest, La Nya Pende, La Pende, Monts de Lam, Baguirmi, Chari, 
Loug Chari, Dababa, Bahr El Gazal, Bahr Koh, Bahr Signaka and Fitri; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(s) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual outlining, 
inter alia
,
the institutional, disbursement and procurement arrangements for the implementation of 
the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such  term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(t) 
“Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual” means the manual outlining 
the monitoring and evaluation arrangements of the Project, referred to in paragraph A.2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual;  
(u) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on January 28, 2002 and on behalf of the Recipient on February 
1, 2002, and to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association on October 23, 
2003 and on behalf of the Recipient on October 24, 2003; 
(v) 
“Project Semester” means the six-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending six months thereafter (the First Project Semester) and any six-
month period beginning at the end of the First Project Semester, or at the end of any 
subsequent Project Semester; 
(w) 
“SC” means the Steering Committee for the Project, established and 
operating pursuant to the Recipient’s
 
Arrêté
 No. 027/PM/2003 dated September 25, 2003 
(the Rural Sector Monitoring Arrêté), and referred to in paragraphs A.3 and A.5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(x) 
“Second Generation Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; 
(y) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Sub-Prefectoral DAC” means each of the Recipient’s Decision and 
Approval Committees established and operating at the sub-prefectoral (
sous-
préfecture
)
level in the Project Area pursuant to the Project Implementation Arrêté and responsible 
for the selection and approval of Subprojects at the sub-prefectoral (
sous-
préfecture
)
level in the Project Area; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(aa) 
“Subproject” means a specific activity to be carried out in the Project 
Area and financed, or proposed to be financed through a Subproject Grant under Part A 
of the Project; 
(bb) 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by a 
LPMU to finance a Subproject under Part A of the Project; 
(cc) 
“Subproject Management Committee” means the committee to be 
established by each Beneficiary for the purposes of managing, monitoring and 
supervising its Subproject(s); and 
(dd) 
“Technical Support Agency” means an NGO, any of the decentralized 
technical public services of the Recipient, or any other entity providing assistance to the 
Beneficiaries for the identification, appraisal, and preparation of Subprojects and for the 
supervision of the implementation of such Subprojects. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 16,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i)   
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out Parts B, C, and D 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) by the Recipient on account of 
withdrawals made under a Subproject Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for carrying out a Subproject to be financed under Part A of the 
Project, in respect of which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs two separate special deposit accounts, one for Part A of the Project (Special 
Account A), and one for Parts B, C and D of the Project (Special Account B), each in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(c) 
Upon completion of a financial management system review, to be found 
satisfactory by the Association, to evaluate the financial management system in place in 
each LPMU, the Recipient may additionally open  and maintain in CFA Francs, for the 
benefit of each LPMU, one Second Generation Special Account of Special Account A, 
each in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and or attachment. 
 
(d) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency of the French Republic or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through PMU and the LPMUs with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, institutional, engineering and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account 
in CFA Francs (the Project Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial contribution of 
CFA Francs 300,000,000; 
 
(c) 
within six months of the Effective Date deposit into the Project Account 
an additional contribution of CFA Francs 265,000,000; 
 
(d) 
thereafter deposit in the Project Account, at the end of each Project 
Semester, until the completion of the Project, such amounts as shall be required to timely 
replenish the Project Account back to the amount of CFA Francs 282,750,000, or 
whenever the balance of the Project Account shall be less than CFA Francs 565,000,000; 
and 
(e) 
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services for the Project in addition of those financed 
from the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 3.05. Within one year of the Effective Date, the Recipient shall establish 
an LPMU at N’Djamena in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 3.06. Within three months of the Effective Date, the Recipient shall 
establish a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Section 3.07. Within three months of the Effective Date, the Recipient shall 
ensure that representatives of the producers organizations, the NGOs, the associations  
(
associations),
 and the unions within the SC are elected in the manner provided in the 
Rural Sector Monitoring Arrêté. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts 
and Second Generation Special Accounts for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
 (ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or other 
period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Association) as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
Page  11
-
10
-
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it impossible that the 
Program or a significant part thereof, in particular the provisions of paragraph 22 (i) of 
the Program, will be carried out; and 
(b) 
the Project Implementation Arrêté governing the operations of PMU, the 
LPMUs, the Departmental DACs and the Sub-Prefectoral DACs, or the Rural Sector 
Monitoring Arrêté governing the operations of SC, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so to materially and adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution referred 
to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; 
(b) 
the Recipient has established an accounting and financial management 
system for the Project satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
the Recipient has employed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and  
(d) 
the Recipient has established two LPMUs in Koumra and in Moundou,  
respectively, each with the following staff: a regional coordinator, an accountant, a 
monitoring and evaluation specialist, a social and environmental specialist, and a training 
and communication specialist, all employed in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for planning, 
development and cooperation is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Planning, Development and Cooperation, 
 
B.P. 286 
 
N’Djamena 
 
Republic of Chad 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
5329 KD 
 
(235) 51 51 85  
 
(235) 52 00 87 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
By /s/  /s/ 
Abdoulaye 
Beri 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Ali M. Khadr
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
 
Grant Allocated 
 
        % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
  Expenditures 
 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)   Works 
360,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 82% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(2)   Goods and 
 
    1,780,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
vehicles  
 
expenditures 
and 
82% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(3)   Consultants’ 
 
  3,470,000 
 
82% 
 
services and 
 
 
 
audits 
 
(4)   Training 
 
     490,000 
 
100% 
 
 
  
 
(5)   Subproject  
 
  7,150,000 
 
100% of amounts 
 
Grants  
 
disbursed 
 
(6)   Operating  
 
710,000 
78% 
 
Costs  
 
 
(7)  Refunding of 
 
850,000 
 
Amount due pursuant 
 
Project Preparation 
 
 
to Section 2.02 (d) of 
 
Advance  
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(8)  Unallocated 
 
  1,590,000 
 
========
TOTAL 
   16,400,000
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;  
(c) 
the term ”Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicles operation and maintenance, communication costs, rental expenses, 
utilities expenses, consumables, transport, travel and accommodation, per diem, 
supervision costs and salaries of locally contracted staff, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(d) 
the term “Training” means the expenses incurred on per diem, travel, 
purchase of training materials and rental of facilities, and includes workshops and 
seminars. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
a Subproject Grant under Category (5) unless the Subproject Grant has 
been made in accordance with the criteria and on terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Project Implementation Manual and the provisions of paragraph B of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a)  goods under contracts 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$500,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; and (d) Training and Operating Costs, each under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  17
-
16
-
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit 
into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to design and implement a 
decentralized and participatory mechanism that aim to empower local communities and 
decentralized authorities to manage development funds in a transparent way and 
according to their own priorities. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:  
Part A
:
Supporting Local Development
Provision of Subproject Grants to Beneficiaries for the financing of Subprojects 
to support local development, including, in particular: (a) the financing of social activities 
such as the construction of infrastructure (for example, rural roads, bridges, classrooms, 
wells, and health posts), the provision of training to the Beneficiaries in order to 
strengthen their technical capacities, the carrying out of social sector information 
campaigns and communication activities, and the technical advisory services relating 
thereto; and (b) the financing of natural resource management activities such as erosion 
control, tree nurseries, forest management and fuel wood activities, and the technical 
advisory services relating thereto. 
Part B
:
Capacity Building for Local Development Stakeholders
1. 
Strengthening of the institutional and technical capacities of Departmental DACs 
and Sub-Prefectoral DACs through the provision of training for, inter alia, the following  
subject matters: local governance, strategic planning, human resources management, 
accounting, procurement, disbursement, feasibility studies, monitoring, communication 
and implementation of the Environmental and Social Management Framework. 
2. 
Carrying out of information and sensitization campaigns and pilot initiatives to 
the benefit of the Beneficiaries on behavior changes contributing to poverty reduction and 
local development, regarding, in particular, nutrition, health, hygiene, natural resources 
techniques and household energy. 
3. 
Supporting the expansion of micro-finance institutions in the Project Area 
through: (a) the provision of technical advisory services to MFTU for the preparation and 
implementation of a regulatory framework applicable to micro-finance institutions 
Page  19
-
18
-
established and operating in the territory of the Recipient; (b) the provision of training to 
the staff of such micro-finance institutions and to local communities; and (c) carrying out 
of feasibility studies and business plans set-ups; acquisition of office equipment, bicycles, 
motorcycles and other non-motorized vehicles to support these activities. 
Part C
:
Supporting Decentralization
1.  
Carrying out of studies and provision of technical advisory services to MD in 
order to finalize the preparation of the decentralization legal texts. 
2. 
Strengthening of the institutional and technical capacities of all stakeholders 
involved in the decentralization process, including, in particular: 
(a) 
carrying out of: (i) an assessment of training needs for staff at MD, and 
(ii) a training program for staff at MD; 
(b) 
acquisition of equipment and vehicles and rehabilitation and construction 
of offices for MD;  
(c) 
provision of technical advisory services to MD to prepare and implement 
a
communication strategy for the decentralization process, and to establish a training  and 
support program to strengthen the capacities of  decentralized governments at the 
regional (
région
), departmental (
département
), sub-prefectoral (
sous-préfecture
)
and 
local (
communautés rurales 
in rural areas
 
and
 communes 
in urban areas) levels, local 
communities, decentralized Ministries, traditional authorities and Technical Support 
Agencies; 
(d) 
as a pilot activity, carrying out of the training and support program 
referred to in (c) above, in ten decentralized local government entities (
communes
)
in the 
Project Area; in relation thereto, acquisition of equipment; and 
(e) 
provision of training and technical advisory services to MLMUH at the 
central and decentralized levels, and carrying out of studies and acquisition of equipment 
and vehicles for MLMUH. 
3. 
(a) 
Strengthening of the institutional and technical capacities of CLTO 
through the provision of training and technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment  and geographical data for the establishment of a land tenure data base, the 
definition of curricula and research programs on land tenure. 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
Support to the creation of a decentralized unit of CLTO in each of the 
three regions (
régions
)
of Mandoul, Logone Occidental and Tandjile through the 
provision of training and technical advisory services, the carrying out of workshops and 
the acquisition of equipment and geographical data. 
Part D
:
Supporting Project Management
1. 
 Support to PMU and the LPMUs through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training, the rehabilitation and construction of offices and the acquisition of 
equipment and vehicles. 
2. 
Carrying out the activities under the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual 
through the provision of technical advisory services to PMU and the LPMUs. 
3. 
Carrying out financial and technical audits of the Project, PMU and the LPMUs 
through the provision of technical advisory services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Works, Goods and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.   
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract, and goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
 2. 
Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Computers, vehicles and office equipment 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured from the 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
.
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, as set 
forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A.  
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants 
for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants.     
B.  
Other 
Procedures 
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for audits estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-
cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services for small studies, 
engineering design and supervision, monitoring and evaluation and short term 
assignments estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services related to household energy activities under 
paragraph 2 of Part B of the Project, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants.
Services for assignments  that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in 
Page  23
-
22
-
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual 
consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Association.  
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; (b) each contract 
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more;  and (c) the first three 
contracts for works and the first three contracts for goods awarded under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures; and (d) each contract for consultants’ services provided 
by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more.  In addition,  the record of 
justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for 
each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source 
basis, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, shall be subject to Prior 
Review by the Association.  
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. However, 
the exception to Prior Review by the Association shall not apply to : (a) the terms of 
reference of such contracts, regardless of their estimated cost; (b) all contracts for audit 
services, regardless of their estimated cost; and (c) annual programs for local and 
overseas training and workshops, including terms of reference and estimated budgets. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation
1. 
Within one month of the Effective Date, the Recipient shall take all measures 
necessary on its part to organize, in conjunction with the Association, a workshop for the 
launching of the Project which shall cover, 
inter alia
,
disbursement and procurement 
procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation 
Manual, the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, the Project 
Monitoring and Evaluation Manual and the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework; and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived,  the Project 
Implementation Manual, the Project Administrative, Financial and Accounting Manual, 
the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual and the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of 
the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
SC and PMU
During the execution of the Project, the Recipient shall cause: (a) SC to meet 
quarterly; and (b) PMU to prepare for SC, not later than two weeks before such meetings, 
a
report regarding the implementation of the Project during the preceding quarter. 
4. Annual 
Consultations
The Recipient shall cause PMU and the LPMUs to organize annual regional 
workshops to establish annual priorities for local development  activities in conformity 
with the provisions of  the Project Implementation Manual. 
5.  
The Recipient shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
SC shall manage the overall planning, implementation and supervision of 
the Project; PMU, in collaboration with the LPMUs, shall be responsible for the day to 
day coordination and implementation of the Project; 
(b) 
the qualifications, experience and performance of the staff within 
MLMUH, MD, SC, PMU, the LPMUs, CLTO, the three regional units of  CLTO, the 
Page  25
-
24
-
Departmental DACs and the Sub-Prefectoral DACs in charge directly or indirectly of the 
implementation of any parts of the Project, shall be satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
SC, PMU, the LPMUs, the Departmental DACs and the Sub-Prefectoral 
DACs shall be maintained with functions and composition satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(d)  
the relevant Ministries, Agencies and authorities (in particular, MLMUH, 
MD, the Ministry responsible for Planning, Development and Cooperation, the Ministry 
responsible for agriculture, the Ministry responsible for environment and water, the 
Ministry responsible for livestock, the Ministry responsible for public works and 
transports, the Ministry responsible for public health and the Ministry responsible for 
education), shall collaborate with PMU, the LPMUs, CLTO, the three regional units of 
CLTO, the Departmental DACs and Sub-Prefectoral DACs in compliance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, the Project Administrative, Financial 
and Accounting Manual, the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Manual and the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework, in particular with respect to the 
appointment of individuals whose experience, position and performance are satisfactory 
to the Association, and who shall assist PMU, LPMUs, CLTO, the three regional units of 
CLTO, and the Departmental DACs and Sub-Prefectoral DACs in ensuring proper 
implementation of the Project; and 
(e) 
the Departmental DACs and Sub-Prefectoral DACs shall be established 
in compliance with the provisions of, and in particular the time-frame and the criteria set 
forth in the Project Implementation Manual; in that respect, the Recipient shall determine 
whether each 
sous-
préfecture
 shall have a Sub-Prefectoral DAC, based on the level of 
population and decentralized services of the Ministries referred to in the Project 
Implementation Arrêté in the relevant 
sous-pr
é
fecture
.
B.  
Subprojects and Subproject Grants
1. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph A.2 above, no  Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant unless the relevant 
Departmental DAC or Sub-Prefectoral DAC, as the case may be, has determined, on the 
basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified 
below and in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(a) 
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary, with or without the 
assistance of a Technical Support Agency; 
Page  26
-
25
-
(b) 
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in Part 
A
of the Project; provided that the Subproject shall not be for any of the types of 
activities indicated in the negative list of activities set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual; 
(c) 
the Subproject shall be economically, financially, environmentally, 
institutionally and technically sound in accordance with the standards specified in the 
Project Implementation  Manual and the
 
Environmental and Social Management 
Framework; 
(d) 
an analysis of the environmental impacts of the Subproject shall have 
been undertaken in compliance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social 
Management Framework, and, if applicable, an environmental impact assessment  shall 
have been carried out and any other environmental and social requirements, including 
mitigation, compensation, rehabilitation and resettlement measures,  provided under the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework shall have been complied with, all  in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Association; 
(e) 
adequate arrangements shall be in place for the financing of maintenance 
and other incremental recurrent costs related to the  Subproject; 
(f) 
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Recipient relating to health, education, safety and 
environmental protection; 
(g) 
the Beneficiary shall provide from 2 to 15 % of the estimated costs of the 
Subproject in the form of cash, materials, labor or other services, depending on the nature 
of the Subproject and as specified in the Project Implementation Manual; 
(h) 
no Subproject Grant shall be in excess of thirty two million five hundred 
thousand CFA Francs (CFAF 32,500,000); and 
(i) 
the Beneficiary shall have established a Subproject Management 
Committee. 
2. 
Applications for Subproject Grants to finance Subprojects shall be prepared by 
the Beneficiaries, with or without the assistance of a Technical Support Agency, and 
submitted to the respective Departmental DAC or Sub-Prefectoral DAC, as the case may 
be, for its approval. Departmental DACs shall review Subprojects prepared by 
Beneficiaries which are decentralized local government entities (
communautés rurales 
in 
rural areas
 
and
 communes 
in urban areas), and Subprojects prepared by Beneficiaries  
which are community-based organizations located in areas of the Project Area where 
Page  27
-
26
-
there is no Sub-Prefectoral DAC. Sub-Prefectoral DACs shall review Subprojects 
prepared by Beneficiaries  which are community-based organizations. 
3. 
Where the respective Departmental DAC or Sub-Prefectoral DAC, as the case 
may be,  approves an application for a Subproject Grant, the Departmental DAC or Sub-
Prefectoral DAC, as the case may be, refers such application for financing to the relevant 
LPMU. 
4. 
The composition of each Departmental DAC or Sub-Prefectoral DAC and each 
Subproject Management Committee shall be as indicated in the Project Implementation 
Manual. The Technical Support Agencies shall meet the criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
5. 
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
concluded between the Recipient and the Beneficiaries, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following: 
(a) 
financing to be on a grant basis; 
(b) 
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and the Environmental and Social Management Framework, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound environmental, social, 
institutional, technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject; 
(c) 
 where applicable, the obligation to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Recipient and the Association, any environmental mitigation measures, 
 
compensation and rehabilitation of displaced persons for land acquisition or resettlement 
in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental and Social Management 
Framework; 
(d) 
the requirement that : (i) the goods, works, and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Subproject Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and 
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(e)  
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
Page  28
-
27
-
(f)  
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and 
(g)  
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the  
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Subproject Grant for the  Subproject upon failure by 
the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under its Financing Agreement. 
C. 
Reports and Mid-Term Review
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Project Monitoring  and Evaluation 
Manual and performance indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of 
each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph C.1 (a) above and including beneficiary feedback 
reports and Subproject completion reports, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the calendar quarter preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objective thereof during the calendar quarter following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, not later than two weeks after the 
submission of the report referred to in paragraph C.1 (b) above, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph C.1 (b) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
2. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
On or about twenty four months after the Effective Date, the Recipient 
shall carry out jointly with the Association, SC, PMU, the LPMUs, CLTO and the three 
Page  29
-
28
-
regional units of CLTO, a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the 
Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). 
 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objective; and 
(ii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance 
indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause PMU to prepare and, at least four weeks prior 
to the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status 
of implementation of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project 
implementation generally. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare and submit to the Association an action program, acceptable to the Association, 
for the further implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm 
Review and, thereafter, implement such action program. 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means in respect of Special Account A, 
Category (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in 
respect of Special Account B, Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) set forth in said table;  
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
CFAF 
505,000,000 in respect of Special Account A, and an amount of 
CFAF 640,000,000 in respect of Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of CFAF 320,000,000 in respect of 
Special Account B, until: (i) the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account allocated to Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (6) plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B, C and D of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of [SDR 3,600,000]. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
Page  31
-
30
-
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
Page  32
-
31
-
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account, as the case may be, for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
7. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall withdraw from Special Account A and deposit into 
each Second Generation Special Account funds to assist each LPMU to pay for 
Subproject Grants under Part A of the Project. Such withdrawals and deposits shall be in 
amounts sufficient to assist each LPMU in the manner contemplated in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to pay for such Subproject Grants in due course, provided that, at no time, 
Page  33
-
32
-
shall the Recipient cause the amount held in any Second Generation Special Account to 
exceed CFAF 100,000,000. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal from any Second Generation Special Account must be 
justified to the Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding 
eligible expenditures required pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Schedule.  
(c) 
If the Association or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Second Generation Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant LPMU shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association or the Recipient, refund to Special Account A such 
outstanding amount. 
Page  34
-
33
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions 
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant 
Agreement to which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial Payment”. 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under the 
Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
Page  35
-
34
-
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made 
 
(a)  The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under 
the Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such 
agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(d) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any 
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
7. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The words “development credit” in Section 6.02(a)(ii) are deleted. 
(b) 
The words “loan or guarantee” in Section 6.02(a)(iii) are deleted. 
(c) 
The words “development credit” and the word “loan”, wherever used in 
Section 6.02(c), are deleted. 
 
8. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
Page  36
-
35
-
9. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c)  Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
 
10. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
