                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                               Report No: AC113
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/15/2005
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: CHAD                                                Project ID: P066998
                                                             Global Supplemental ID: P078138
Project: Local Development Program Support Project           Task Team Leader: Valerie Marie Helene Layrol
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 14, 2002                    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: September 16, 2004                            IDA Amount ($m): 23.00
                                                                   IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE: 23
                                                             Global Supplemental Amount ($m): 6.00
Managing Unit: AFTS3                                         Sector: Roads and highways (22%); Primary
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)             education (22%); Water supply (20%); Other social
Status: Lending                                              services (20%); General public administration sector
                                                             (16%)
                                                             Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                                                             Decentralization (P); Participation and civic
                                                             engagement (P); Municipal finance (S); Land
                                                             administration and management (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The above Authorized and Bank approval dates are for the parent's project. Regarding the Global
Environment Facility financed activities, tentative dates are respectively : i) autho. to appraise on
February 17, 2005 and ii) Bank approval on June 15, 2005.

PROADEL (Phase 1 of the Local Development Program) would assist the Government of Chad in
designing and implementing a decentralized and participatory financing mechanism that empowers local
communities and decentralized authorities to manage development funds by (i) strengthening the capacity
and responsibility of local communities and decentralized authorities, (ii) implementing demand-driven
subprojects, and (iii) supporting the emerging process of decentralization.

Desertification and loss of biodiversity are two major threats in Chad, and it is improbable that a purely
demand-driven project would be able to effectively address them. Nor is it realistic to expect that the
long-term goals of sustainable management of natural resources would be high community priorities and
thus supported by PROADEL. So PROADEL's development objective could be supported through
financing from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), under Operational Program 12 (OP12). The global
environmental objective would be to promote community-based integrated management of targeted fragile
ecosystems in the framework of sustainable rural development in Chad, thus combating desertification and
preserving biodiversity while fostering multiple global environmental benefits.


I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):

The project would have four components: (i) financial support to local development subprojects, (ii)
capacity building for communities, (iii) support for decentralization, and (iv) management and information
support.

                                                        2
                                                                                                            ISDS


Support to local development sub-projects:

This component will propose a matching grant facility to co-finance subprojects proposed by local
communities (associations, organizations, etc with legal status) or local governments (commune /
communauté rurale level when established). Its purpose is to reduce poverty by stimulating local
development and improving communities' livelihood. The component will be demand-driven and thus will
finance almost any type of community-based development project communities deem important, so long as
it is not included on a negative list and it meets the eligibility criteria set out in the PIP. Among these
criteria, three can be highlighted: (i) sub-projects will have to be submitted as part of Local Development
Plans elaborated following a participatory assessment of their needs, (ii) beneficiaries will have to bring
their own contribution (cash, labor or materials) and (iii) sub-projects will have to be sustainable, i.e. a
maintenance scheme has to be established (management committee, financial resources), the capacity of
beneficiaries for maintenance of the sub-project has to be improved or competent human resources have to
be available to run the infrastructure (health personnel, teachers, etc.). The program will finance (i) small
social activities, (ii) natural resources management activities and (iii) larger-scale and more expensive
collective infrastructure projects that will affect several villages/cantons.

The project has been designed to support and to comply with the decentralization framework. One of the
goals of the project will be to support fiscal decentralization by having funds flow through decentralized
authorities, once they have been democratically elected.

Given the demand-driven multi-sector nature of the project, the sub-projects are likely to touch upon a wide
spectrum of sectors, such as health, education, transport, energy, water and sanitation. These sub-projects
will have to be consistent with national policy.

This component is also expected to co-finance the realization of sub-projects having a positive impact on
the global environment according to GEF objectives and additional GEF resources would support them.
The activities eligible are environmental activities of only medium and long term economic return regarding
priority sites and in the Local Development Plans. A final "positive list" of specific eligible activities would
be agreed upon during appraisal. Some of the subprojects likely to be eligible include inter alia the
reforestation and rehabilitation of gallery forests to prevent dune advancement, development of grazing
corridors, alternative energy carriers to fuel wood and traditionally produced charcoal, introduction of
direct seeding, and other agro-forestry techniques that can increase soil fertility, retain soil organic carbon
and limit erosion, etc.

Capacity building to local development stakeholders

The objective of this component is to strengthen technical and organizational capacity at the community
level with regard to participatory approaches, needs assements, project management and access to credit or
new poverty-reduction behavior. It will specifically target local communities and their associations,
decision committees, as well as services providers (training institutions, NGOs, MFI). This objective will
be reached through:
- Support to community participatory assessments and local development plans preparation and
implementation. It will assist the commmunities in (i) participatory needs assessments, (ii) organization and
decision committees election, (iii) local development plans preparation, (iv) sub-projects implementation.
This subcomponent will be particularly challenging in pastoral areas where most of the population is
nomad. In such zones, the approach will have to be different than in sedentary areas and will be tested on a
pilot basis during the first phase. With GEF funds, this component will also provide local communities with
technical and organizational assistance to take into account global environment and integrated ecosystem

                                                      3
                                                                                                         ISDS


management constraints, in the elaboration of their local development plans. In rural areas of Moundou and
Sahr, capacity building will emphasize the promotion of more sustainable household energy alternatives.
The GEF alternative will also support collaboration between key stakeholders to pursue integrated
ecosystem management priorities at larger scales.
- Trainings. Specific trainings will be provided by PROADEL through services providers (i) to strengthen
decision committees so they can execute the activities envisaged under the program (topics such as local
development techniques, conflict resolution, environmental and social impacts, etc.), and (ii) to influence
community behavior conductive to poverty reduction (topics such as nutrition, literacy, HIV/AIDS, etc.).
An "IEM Guideline Document" would be prepared with GEF support and would be used as a toolkit to
provide specific trainings to communities.
- Institutional support to micro finance institutions to provide efficient financial services to poor
communities in rural areas. the project will (i) provide specific trainings to MFI as well as to communities
(savings and credit basics), (ii) support new MFI set-up (feasibility studies, starting equipment) and (iii)
support the definition and the application of the regional and national micro finance regulatory framework
in Chad.

Support to the Decentralization

While the project is being designed independent of the decentralization process, the overall objectives of the
proposed support is to assist the GOC in the effective implementation of its decentralization policy, which
is still in its early stages. The PROADEL includes the following three sub-components :
- Support to the completion of the legal and regulatory frameworks of the decentralization which will
include studies and technical support to the MDD to complete necessary laws and their application texts
and to formulate a master plan for the implementation of the decentralization;
- Capacity building. The PROADEL will (i) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry responsible for
decentralization, (ii) provide technical advisory services to define the communication strategy on
decentralization and the training program for decentralized authorities at the commune level, (iii) support
the implementation of them in 10 communes, and (iv) strengthen capacities of the Ministry of Land
Management, Urbanism and Habitat.
- Support to land tenure definition. The project would support improvement of the land tenure system in
Chad by (i) creating a data base on land tenure, (ii) defining new curricula and research programs on land
tenure, (iii) collecting data needed for PROADEL's activities and (iv) strengthening capacities of the
National Land Tenure Observatory and supporting creation of three decentralized units.

With GEF resources, this component, will also build capacity of the agents from the Ministry of
Environment and Water (at the central and decentralized levels) in order to allow it to perform its tasks in
the co-management arrangement of protected areas and in environmental regulation enforcement.
Moreover, local capacity to administer and enforce natural resources management regulations will be
enhanced. This mainly implies training, definition of roles, equipment type of support. This component will
also support the finalization and implementation of a sound regulatory framework assuring a sound
management of the environment, the officialization of local regulations, and the dissemination of the
different regulations.

Management and Information Support

The Management and Information Support component will support project coordination and monitoring
and evaluation, through two sub-components:
- Support to project management, which will finance (i) technical advisory services and trainings to
strengthen PROADEL's management entities (procurement, financial management, disbursement,

                                                         4
                                                                                                             ISDS


monitoring and evaluation, etc.), (ii) the rehabilitation or construction of their office space, (iii) equipment
and vehicles, and (iv) financial and techncial audits ;
- Support to the program monitoring and evaluation system, which will rely on (i) a Monitoring &
Evaluation System to follow activities in financial and technical terms, and (ii) a Knowledge Management
System for decision makers.

GEF financed activities will strengthen the environmental monitoring and evaluation capacities, building
upon data and outputs of the NEAP and the Regional Environmental Information Management Program
(REIMP). It would expand the scope and coverage of environmental management information systems,
refine methodologies and tools, and delimit a set of quantitative indicators to benchmark improvements with
respect to the project's global environmental objectives.


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Project (Phase 1 of the Program) will initiate the program in 19 departments (out of 47). The program
will emphasize community development in the oil and cotton production area (11 sudanian departments),
while piloting models for participatory development in pastoral areas (8 departments). In order to decide
which departments will be targeted by the program first, the GOC has come to agreement with donors on
criteria to be examined: (i) agro-ecological characteristics, (ii) population density, (iii) level of social
organization, (iv) level of infrastructure, (v) service providers presence, (vi) absence of other local
development projects, (vii) presence of thematic projects to collaborate, (viii) security, and (ix) presence of
decentralized financial institutions. It has been also agreed that priority zones will be chosen in a way to (i)
cover as soon as possible the oil and cotton production area which will be more and more socially sensitive,
and (ii) to allow an efficient and successful start of PROADEL. Using these criteria the PROADEL will
start in the departments of Mandoul Occidental, Mandoul Oriental and Bahr Sara and expand its activities
to Dodje, Lac Weye, Ngourkosso, Tandjilé Est and Tandjilé Ouest; it will also cover the departments of La
Nya Pende, La Pende and Monts de Lam as soon as FACIL is not any more active; and it will launch some
studies and pilot activities in the departments of Baguirmi, Loug Chari, Chari, Dababa, Bahr El Gazal,
Bahr Koh, Bahr Signaka and Fitri to refine participatory approach in pastoral areas prior to the following
phases. The characteristics of the concerned areas are the following:

Sahelian zone:
This zone is predominantly pastoral and its economic activity is characterized by nomadic movements of
herders in search of food and water for their livestock. The full agricultural potential of this area is
underused, notwithstanding the major limitation imposed by scarcity of water. In addition to the limits
imposed by availability of water, rural development is hindered by the area's isolation and lack of services.
Hot, dry winds blow across the land bringing desiccation and incipient desertification in their wake. The
ecology is fragile: droughts, erosion, deforestation and bush fires threaten the viability of the rangeland
vegetation and the animals, both wild and domestic.

Sahelo-Sudanian zone:
The region is rich in biodiversity and presents several wildlife reservesor other protected areas. The rural
economy of this central region is based on cereal production, livestock (transhumance) and gum arabic.
Access to water is often an issue and determines land use. The current rural development includes low
literacy, education levels and health due to the difficulty of delivering services, and economic development
in the region is hindered by its isolation from any major market. The zone is highly likely to attract
immigrant populations from other areas in the future, leading to increased pressure on biodiversity and

                                                        5
                                                                                                         ISDS


ecosystems in the longer run. Soil erosion and water management, especially groundwater, will be
additional issues to concern.

Sudanian zone:
Mainly rural small-holders live in this zone and represent 40% of the country's population on 10% of the
land (the whole sudanian zone considered). Population density is higher than in other zones and some
agricultural areas have up to 60-100 inhabitants per km2 and are reaching saturation. Soil exhaustion and
environmental degradation are critical issues. Generally this results from a short-term strategy of extensive
farming with no investment in techniques of soil regeneration and preservation. When soil is exhausted,
people move on to seek new land to convert to agricultural use. In a region where demographic pressure is
increasing, the last available areas of natural vegetation are being cleared, precipitating widespread
degradation of the ecosystems, loss of native plants and animals, and introducing the threat of future
desertification.

Integrated ecosystem management activities to be financed by GEF would be implemented in priority
zones, to be selected during appraisal. They would be equitably distributed among the three ecological
zones and would be included either in PROADEL covered area or in the similar CDD-GTZ-supported
project, which is currently being implemented in the region of Mayo-Kebbi.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The Project is based on the community driven development process. This type of projects are
classified as Bs.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                            Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes      No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes      No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes      No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes      No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes      No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes      No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes      No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes      No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes      No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes      No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

Due to the community-driven nature of the program, in which sub-projects are decided by communities, it
is impossible to know up front their exact environmental impacts. However the EA (also called ESMF:

                                                       6
                                                                                                          ISDS


"Environmental and Social Management Framework") has concluded that the sub-projects might trigger the
Environmental Assessment safeguard policy, the Natural Habitats safeguard policy, the Cultural Property
safeguard policy and the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard Policy. But the EA has not identified major
social and environmental PROADEL impacts, although it has noted that certain environmental problems
may arise from sub-projects if they are not adequately screened prior to funding. For example, the EA has
identified that of all the sub-projects potentially funded by the PROADEL, road improvement or
construction remains the sector of intervention the most likely to represent significant negative impacts on
the environment and local communities. Some of the sub-projects to be co-financed by GEF might trigger
as well the Pest Management and Security of Dams policies as some GEF eligible activities would be
related to improved agro-forestry techniques to be identified under the IDA - ASPOP.

The screening process of sub-projects is detailed in the EA. See paragraph 3 for a detailed description of
these measures.



II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The EA has not identified potential cumulative impacts. However, screening process will also be supervised
   at the regional and central level to carefully monitor potential cumulative impacts of multiple similar
   sub-projects in one particular area.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Positive long-term impacts are expected from the project through communities empowerment in natural
resources management, environmental sub-projects financing and through the parallel GEF initiative
activities.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
This is a simple community-driven development project and project's alternatives are not relevant.
Nevertheless, considering the long-term extension of the PROADEL, the EA suggests to see alternatives to
submitted sub-projects on the basis of development activities already being implemented by PROADEL in
a previous stage.This strategy will enable the PROADEL to capitalize on best practices.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues


The environmental assessment of the project conducted during preparation has given a good indication of
the cumulative environmental impacts to be expected from the project's generic investments. By identifying
issues in advance, proposing measures or changes in technology or construction materials, and
recommending methods for monitoring environmental indicators (through local-level institutions and
structures) commonly affected by project-funded investments, the time and effort required for specific
environmental and social assessments of subprojects would be greatly reduced. The environmental
assessment of the project also proposes methods for increasing local government, community, and other
partners' capacities for environmental appraisal and monitoring. The assessment suggests:

l Creating an environmental and social screening, evaluating, and supervising mechanism to ensure that
    funded subprojects are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable and that any adverse
    environmental or social consequences are recognized early in the project cycle. Such a mechanism
    would allow foreknowledge of the major environmental and social issues and impacts of individual
    subprojects, the set of measures to avoid them or mitigate those that are unavoidable, and the estimated

                                                      7
                                                                                                       ISDS


    costs of those measures.

l Raising community awareness about the environmental and social impact of project-funded activities
    and promoting ways to mitigate or avoid negative effects. This would be done through the project's
    information, education, and communication activities, which would assist in disseminating information
    related to good practices. Other information about appropriate construction materials and methods in
    environmentally sensitive areas, site selection criteria, and other measures to mitigate likely adverse
    impacts could be disseminated through technical handbooks or other means.

l Finding methods for supporting improved natural resource management through the project's
    community-based interventions. The project would facilitate community understanding of the relation
    between natural resources and well-being, the need to improve both, and the need for action to grow out
    of understanding and be based on the community's own commitment and local structures. Because poor
    communities often lack the impetus and initial capital necessary to get started, environmental problems
    often have to be proactively targeted at the community level. The project would have an active role
    promoting and supporting projects aimed at improving communities' management of the natural
    resources that they control and depend on for their livelihoods.

A Dam Safety Analysis has been prepared among the ASPOP safeguard documents. It includes generic
dam safety measures and training proposals for the purpose of enabling producers organizations to manage
the safety of their small dams. An Integrated Pest Management Plan has been as well prepared under
ASPOP to ensure that producers organizations apply appropriate pest management approaches under their
sub-projects. Both these Dam Safety Analysis and the Pest Management Plan will be applied in this project
when needed.


II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
An environmental assessment with an environmental and social management framework for PROADEL
was completed by the Government of Chad prior to appraisal, with local stakeholders involved in the
preparation and the support of an international firm, hired by the Government. The final document was
received by the Bank on November 5, 2002, and has been available in Chad and at the Bank's Infoshop
since November 21, 2002. A Resettlement Action Plan Framework had been as well prepared and disclosed
in Chad on the same day. The Government hired as well consultants to prepare a Pest Management Plan
and a Dam Safety Analysis which have been disclosed in the country on November 18, 2002.

PROADEL activities are community-based and have been and will be openly discussed in village meetings
during the process of community facilitation, which most often will encourage focused discussion with
specific interest groups like youth, women and elders.        These meetings will lead up to sub-project
identification, prioritization, planning and local agreement, which factors in all community groups
concerns. Then communities will be responsible for sub-projects implementation.
Activities are also to de discussed and approved by decision committees (CDANSP) that are representation
of the communities and the deconcentrated line ministries. All environmental concerns and mitigation
measures will be discussed and agreed upon during these sessions.


E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

                                                      8
                                                                                                           ISDS




[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               10/31/2002        11/5/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/12/2002        11/21/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            11/12/2002        11/21/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive         Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               5/24/2002         5/24/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/12/2002        11/21/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            11/12/2002        11/21/2002

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                      Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               05/24/2002        07/18/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/18/2002        11/18/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            11/18/2002        11/18/2002

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                                Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               05/15/2002        10/10/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/18/2002        11/18/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            11/18/2002        11/18/2002
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                                  Date
Task Team Leader:                     Valerie Marie Helene Layrol                           02/15/2005
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                   Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Thomas Walton                                              02/15/2005
Sector Manager                        Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                                    02/15/2005

