                                              Documentof
                                           The WorldBank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 24101-CD




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                          PROPOSEDGRANT

                               INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.4MILLION
                                   (US$23 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                               TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                                                FOR A

                      LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
                              INSUPPORTOFTHE FIRSTPHASE OF THE
                                 LOCAL DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

                                             August 19,2004




Environmental, Rural and SocialDevelopment Central Africa
Country Department 07
Africa Regional Office


This documenthasarestricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contents mav not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange RateEffective August 2004)

                             Currency Unit = CFA Franc (FCFA)
                                   FCFA1 = US$0.0017
                                     US$1 = FCFA 531

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1--December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     French Development Agency (Agence FranCaise de Dkveloppement)
ASPOP   Agricultural Servicesand Producer Organizations Project
APL     Adaptive Program Lending
CBO     Community-Based Organization
CLTO    Chadian Land Tenure Office
DDAC    Departmental Decisionand Approval Committee
FACIL   Local Initiatives Fund(Fonds dYctions Concedes d'lnitiative Locale)
FADN    FightAgainst DesertificationNationalPlan
FOSAP   Population Support Fund(Fonds de Soutien aux Activitds de Population)
GOC     Government o f Chad
LPMU    LocalProject Management Unit
LDP     LocalDevelopment Plan
MA      Ministry o f Agriculture
ME      Ministry o f Livestock
MEE     Ministry o fWater andEnvironment
MED     Ministry o f Education
MD      MinistryofDecentralization
MH      MinistryofHealth
MIS     MonitoringInformationSystem
MLMUH   Ministry o f LandManagement, Urbanism andHabitat
MPED    MinistryofEconomic Promotion andDevelopment
MTP     MinistryofTransport
NEAP    National EnvironmentalAction Plan
PIDR    RuralDevelopmentSupport Program (Programme d'lntewentionpour le Dtveloppement Rural)
PIM     Project ImplementationManual
PMU     Project Management Unit
PSAP    Agricultural Services Program
sc      Steering Committee
SPDAC   Sub-prefectoral Decision andApproval Committee


                            Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                         Country Director:    Ali M.Khadr
                           Sector Manager:    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
                            Task Manager:     Noel Chabeuf

                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                      CHAD
                         LOCAL DEVELOPMENTPROGRAMSUPPORTPROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




     A. Program Purpose andProject Development Objective                                     Page

        1. Programpurpose andprogramphasing                                                    3
        2. Project development objective                                                       3
        3. Key performance indicators                                                          4

     B. Strategic Context

        1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
        2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           5
        3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                    9
        4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   10

     C. Program and Project Description Summary

        1. Project components                                                                  12
        2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       12
        3. Benefits and target population                                                      12
        4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       14

     D.Project Rationale

        1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           19
        2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies        20
        3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  21
        4. Indications of recipient commitment andownership                                    22
        5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                          23

     E. Summary Project Analysis

        1. Economic                                                                            24
        2. Financial                                                                           24
        3. Technical                                                                           24
        4. Institutional                                                                       25
        5. Environmental                                                                       26
        6. Social                                                                              2s
        7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  30



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
 the performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout W o r l d Bank authorization.                                                   2

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     31
   2. Criticalrisks                                                                      32
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     32


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            33
   2. Other                                                                              33

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             33



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          34
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         54
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           55
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     75
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    77
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 78
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            79
Annex 11: Synergy between PRODELand ASPOP                                                81
Annex 12: Institutional arrangements                                                     83
Annex 13: Multisectoral assessment                                                       87




MAP(S)
IBRD32817

                                                  CHAD
                                 LocalDevelopment Program Support Project

                                    ProjectAppraisal Document
                                           Africa Regional Office
                                                  AFTS3

Date: September 24,2002                               Team Leader: Noel Rene Chabeuf
Sector Manager: JosephBaah-Dwomoh                     Sector(s): Other social services (60%), Sub-national
Country Director: Ali Khadr                           government administration (20%), Central government
Project ID: PO66998                                   administration (20%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)      Theme(s): Decentralization (PI, &nzil services and
                                                      infrastructure (P), Other human development (P),
                                                      Participation and civic engagement (S), Poverty strategy,
                                                      analysis andmonitoring (S)




                                                                                   Government of Chad




                                                                              indicative.
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$23.00 mGrant



FRANCE: FRENCHAGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT
LOCAL COM

 BorrowerlRecipient: REPUBLICOF CHAD
 Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF LANDMANAGEMENT, URBANISMAND HABITAT
 Address: Ministere de l'Am6nagementduTerritoire, de Furbanismeet de 1'Habitat
 Route de Farchasis enceinte du.Minist&-edes Travaux Publics
 B.P. 436Ndjamena, Tchad
 ContactPerson: M.Aboubakar Ourd6
 Tel: (235) 51-78-59              Fax:                Email:
 OtherAgency(ies):
 CellulePemanente de Suivide la Table Rondede GenkveIV
 Address: N'Djamena, Chad
 ContactPerson: MrAbdelmajitMahamatSaleh
 Tel: (235) 52.07.49              Fax:                Email:

Estimated Disbursements(Bank FY/US$m):




 Project implementation period: 4 years
 Expected effectiveness date: 1213112004 Expected closing date: 0613012009
.Ls*PMRnl:R." m,*,*m




                                                      - 2 -

A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Programpurposeand programphasing:

The Government o f Chad finalized its Poverty Reduction Strategy in June 2003 and designed the Local
Development Program as part o f its implementation. The purpose o f the program is to reduce poverty and
promote sustainable development in rural areas by empowering communities and decentralized authorities
and improving access to basic services and economic opportunities at the local level.

The complexity o f needed institutional reforms and Chad's size suggest the use of Adaptive Program
Lending, which allows flexible, long-term (up to 12 years) intervention through three phases, the second
two triggered by intermediate results (see section B.4). The program would evolve from pilot activities in a
few areas to a full-fledged national program in a clearly established framework o f decentralization by
progressively adapting activities to experience and capacity.

   Phase 1. The Local Development Program Support Project (PROADEL) would progressively build on
   preliminary results and refine its approach and mechanisms for the next steps. This phase would cover
    19 o f 47 ddpartements in Chad (see map in map section). PROADEL would emphasize community
    development inoil and cotton production area (11 southem ddpartements), consolidate the experience
    o f village-based management o f wood resources around N'Djamena and Moundou, and pilot models
    for participatory development inpastoral areas (8 northem dkpartements). And PROADEL would help
    the Government o f Chad complete the decentralization framework and support democratically elected
    decentralized authorities. During this phase the project would also build on current World
    Bank-financed pilot initiatives such as the Fonds d'Actions Concertkes d'lnitiative Locale (FACIL),
    Agency for Domestic Energy and Environment (AEDE), Agricultural and Livestock Services Project
    (DO A D \J uuu
     I uru ,      +$e
                  ~i1  COil SdesOi;tiB.am Acfpdtfdsde l   D o p ~ ~ a ~ o n
                                                                        (FCSAp).

   Phase 2. The program would be scaled up with more intensity inpastoral areas, and coverage would be
    expanded to 32 dkpartements, while continuing to support fiscal decentralization and implementation
   o f national training and capacity building for newly elected decentralized authorities. Funds would be
   progressively channeled through these elected decentralized authorities.

   Phase 3. The project would achieve national coverage, consolidating the successes o f the previous
   phases and contributing to the implementation of policy measures needed to ensure the long-term
    sustainability o fthe process.

The long-term vision for rural areas is that of cooperation between representative decentralized authorities
and empowered rural communities who are working together to plan and control their development by
managing resources, including future oil revenues allocated to priority sectors, whithin a clearly established
framework o f decentralization.

2. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
PROADEL (Phase 1 of the Local Development Program) would assist the Government o f Chad in
designing and implementing a decentralized and participatory financing mechanism that empowers local
communities and decentralized authorities to manage development funds by (i)      strengthening the capacity
and responsibility o f local communities and decentralized authorities, (ii)   implementing demand-driven
subprojects, and (iii)supporting the emerging process o f decentralization.




                                                    - 3 -

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

A monitoring and evaluation manual would be developed to guide information collection and assessmentof
the progress and impact o f the project. Progress toward development objectives would be measured by key
impact indicators: (i) conditions (improvement in access to basic social services and infrastructures,
                       living
permanent jobs created, income levels); (ii)   management o f natural resources (number o f management o f
natural resources subprojects implemented, number o f management o f natural resources training programs
provided); (iii)local institutional capacity (quality o f community development plans and implementation,
transparency in management o f decentralized decision entities); and (iv) central institutional capacity
(definition of a coherent regulatory framework, adoption o f a master plan to implement decentralization),
Some baseline data are available from detailed feasibility studies inPROADEL'Sddpartements and from
the current ECOSIT household survey. Censuses would be conducted regularly to monitor the impact o f the
project, and a beneficiaries assessment would be completed at the end o f the project. PROADEL would
also use participatory appraisal tools to measure community satisfaction and subproject implementation.
Some data would be regularly provided by other monitoring systems, such as the Poverty Monitoring
System and the Rural Sector Monitoring System.


Progress assessment during the first phase o f the program would be qualitative and process-based
(establishment o f Departmental or SubprefectoralDecision and Approval Committees, effective community
participation in decision-making, inclusion o f women and underprivileged groups in decision-making,
quantity and quality of Local Development Plans established, efficiency of the approval process of
subprojects). As results are obtained and lessons from experience can be applied to subsequent phases,
performance indicators would become more quantitative and output-related (management capacity at local
level, implementation o f development activities, deconcentration o f technical services, effective service
delivery). Some quantitative performance indicators to reflect improvement in basic services and social
infrastructures have been provided (see Annexe 1) but are tentative, as micro-projects will be
demand-driven. They have been estimatedbased on feasibility studies and pilot operations.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 26938-CD          Date of latestCAS discussion: December 11,2003

The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy presented to the Board on December 11, 2003, aims to
help Chad make the best possible developmental use o f its new oil revenues (and public resources more
broadly) notably by (i)  strengthening governance including institutional arrangements for public resource
management andservice delivery; and (ii)    enhancingnon-oil economic opportunities while reducing sources
of vulnerability, notably for the poor. The PROADEL would support these two pillars, and more
specifically will contribute to expand opportunities for the poor and to empower communities to formulate
their needs in basic infrastructures and to manage and maintain infrastructure, a critical outcome of the
second pillar o f the strategy. In particular, through this project, the bank will seek to contribute to the
following result: 250 subprojects benefiting communities in at least 10 ddpartements are implemented
based on their approved Local Development Plans and operated and maintained in a sustainable manner.
As a result some critical infrastructure constraints and sources o fvulnerability are expected to be addressed
for targeted rural communities.         Moreover, PROADEL will accompany and contribute to the
decentralization process, an important element o f the first pillar o f the strategy.




                                                     - 4 -

An explicit theme in the Bank's strategy is that operations funded by the Intemational Development
Association (IDA), and the Local Development Program Support Project (PROADEL) in particular,
should improve Chad's ability to use its oil revenues for effective poverty reduction. It is expected, as
indicated in para. 22(i) o f the Letter o f Sector Policy, signed on October 27, 2003, that a portion o f oil
revenues would finance rural communities' needs, as identifiedby the participatory approach implemented
under RuralDevelopment Support Programprojects.
For FY05 Chad was allocated IDA grants o f US$26 million equivalent because of its status as a
"debt-vulnerable poorest country," and part o f this amount would be applied toward financing the Local
Development Program Support Project. This project was selected for grant financing because o f its
importance inthe Bank's program inChad and its expected strong poverty alleviation impact.

WorldBank Rural Development Strategyfor Chad

The proposed project is based on the Community-Driven Development (CDD) approach. It is in line with
the current Bank strategy for rural development in Chad (review meeting on November 30, 2000), which
recommended the identification o f a national CDD program. The ultimate goal o f the Bank's strategy is to
support the Government o f Chad in its efforts to fight poverty by focusing o n rural development and
management of natural resources, with strong and effective participation o f beneficiaries. Bank assistance
emphasizes the importance o f strengthening local capacity and increasing stakeholders' involvement by
developing consensus on priority objectives and implementing clear operational strategies to meet those
objectives, with particular focus on (i)    completion o f the unfinished agenda o f structural reform, (ii)
decentralization and empowerment o f local communities and farmers organizations to manage their assets
and become active partners in the development process, and (iii)       concentration o f limited government
resources nn critical services and investments.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues

With 80% of the populationliving on less than $1 a day, Chad is one o f the poorest countries inthe world.
Poverty is most prevalent in rural areas, where about 80% o f the population resides. Average annual
income per capita is estimated at FCFA 98,000, with a marked disparity between rural areas (FCFA
73,000) and urban areas (FCFA 180,000). Agriculture employs 80% o f the active work force, contributes
about 40% o f national income, and accounts for almost 50% o f the value o f exports. Thus rural areas must
be the primary target o f interventions aimed at reducing poverty and increasing growth. An analysis
conducted in 1998 in preparation for the rural development roundtable and confirmed by the
preidentification multidonor mission inApril 2000 identifiedfour mainconstraints to rural growth:

Issue 1: Weak and inefficient provision o f basic services to the rural population. On average, only 30% of
the population has access to safe water and between 25% and 70% o f the pumps are dysfunctional due to
poor equipment management and maintenance. Education shows persistent weaknesses: (i)poor
infrastructure and insufficient number o f schools; (ii)wide regional disparities, with gross enrollment rates
of less than 42% in most o f the northem and eastern provinces; (iii) disparity; (iv) poor education
                                                                        gender
quality; (v) high disparity in unit costs; and (vi) persistently low post-primary education enrollment. The
health situation is particularly precarious in rural areas, with one doctor per 41,000 inhabitants nationally
compared with one doctor per 3,904 inhabitants in N'Djamena. H a l f o f births are assisted inurban areas,
compared with 16% in rural areas. The prevalence o f HIV/AIDS is increasing, reaching 5% o f adults
nationally, and more than 10%in some areas, compared with 2.9% in 1994. The road network is extremely



                                                     - 5 -

limited, with a low roads normalized index value o f 21. Chad has 300 kilometers o f fully paved roads out
of 6,200 total kilometers, and most unpaved roads are not accessible year-round, which seriously affects
food security and the cost of agricultural products (transport charges can be as much as 70% o f marketing
costs). Almost 100% o f the populationrelies on woodfuels for its energy needs. And the rural production of
firewood and charcoal contributes little to the communities where the resources are located because a
supportive regulatory framework and local management structures are lacking.

Issue 2: Fragile ecosvstems. Chad's fragile ecosystems make management o f natural resources a recurrent
issue. Production capital is threatened and in some cases already compromised by soil erosion,
deforestation, and desertification, subjecting the population in several areas to precarious economic
conditions and sometimes forcing them to migrate. Even when climatic conditions and demographic
pressures are the major causes for migration, lack o f sound management o f natural resources appears to be
an aggravating factor.

Issue 3: Weak organization o f rural communities and limited involvement in decisions concerning their
development. The Government o f Chad has started decentralization, but it is still inthe early stages. There
are no elected decentralized authorities yet, and decision centers are still out o f reach for much o f the rural
population. A few projects have set up informal local development decision bodies (such as the FACIL and
theAEDE), butthey remaininthe pilot stage and dependon international donors for financial support.

Issue 4: Weak rural fmancial services. The vast majority o f small farmers and small entrepreneurs have
difficult or no access to credit. There is no national policy on microfinance, and local banks have
demonstrated little interest in financing rural sector activities. Nor do local banks have decentralized
networks o f branches or agencies to facilitate access by rural clients. The shallowness o f both formal and
bYonna1nura! financial markets has hindered modernization o f the rural sector and the transition to more
lucrative nonfarm activities.

Governmentstrategy
Government strategy t o address the sector-specific issues:

The Government's national rural development strategy was presented to the main donors during the Geneva
IV Sectorial Consultation on Rural Development inJune 1999. The objective of the strategy is to increase
production in a sustainable way that preserves the environment while reinforcing institutional and human
capacities. The key elements o f the strategy are:

(i) Increasing agricultural productivity and improving agricultural marketing. This includes (i)           better
delivery of agricultural extension and research services, more access to agricultural inputs and credit, (ii)
enhanced effectiveness of high-potential products, and (iii)improved rural basic infrastructure.

(ii) Providing support to rural organizations. This includes strengthening the capacities of producer
organizations and promoting the emergence of new ones at the grassroots, district, and national
levels-with   particular emphasis on women and transhumant herders.




                                                    - 6 -

(iii)Promoting sustainable management of natural resources and restoration of production potential.
This includes (i)consultation and consensus building with rural communities; (ii)    promotion o f better soil
and water management; and (iii)    management o f rural space, conservation o f biodiversity, and prevention
of desertification and deforestation.

(iv) Improving .the effectiveness of the public sector. A key part o f Chad's development policy, the
effectiveness o f the public sector concerns more than rural development. Achieving this objective requires
(i)redefining the Government's role in policy formulation, sectoral planning, and regulation; (ii)
reorganizing public services, through deconcentration of their structures and decentralization o f
decision-making and management; and (iii)optimally allocating resources through multisectoral and
multithematic approaches developed ina participatory framework.

(v) Improving theprovision of basic services. This point concerns the rural sector inits broader sense and
is a precondition for the success o f the m a l development strategy. It requires the intervention o f other
ministries besides the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministry o f Livestock, and the Ministry o f Environment
and Water and includes (i)   strengthening primary schools inrural areas, (ii)improving primary health care,
(iii)strengthening the communications network (transport, media, telecommunications), and (iv) improving
accessto energy sources other thanwoodfuel.

T o implement its rural development strategy, the Government has created a Rural Development Support
Program (PIDR). Within the PIDR framework, and as stated inthe CAS, the Bank is supporting the rural
development strategy and cotton reform strategy with ASPOP and PROADEL. These two projects are
complementary but support different parts o f the development and reform strategies. They aim to create
sustain&,!e growth in agricultLlra! production, provide support to pmducer organizdons, 2nd support the
decentralization and delivery of agricultural services. ASPOP specifically addresses agricultural
productivity and marketing, rural organizations, and management of rural space and the public sector,
while the thrust o f PROADEL is decentralization and community development. ASPOP aims to increase
agricultural production and productivity by improving farmers' access to productive infrastructure and
equipment, improving farming systems, promoting agricultural diversification, and strengthening the
capacities o f agricultural services (capacity building to strengthen the technical ministries, strengthening
capacities o f producer organizations,       and private sector development). PROADEL supports the
development of community (public) property-rural        roads, health centers, and schools-whereas     ASPOP
supports private farmers' own investments. The two projects work together to coordinate their annual work
programs so that community development (rural roads) and productive investment (irrigation rehabilitation
and technology transfer) go hand in hand. The synergy o f the two projects is detailed inC.4 and in annex
11.

The Decentralization Process

PROADEL would support decentralization, which was begun by the Government of Chad in 1996. A
five-level administrative organization has been defined (nation, rigion, ddpartement, commune, and
commtrnautd rurale), but the legal and regulatory framework has not yet been completed, with some
critical legal documents (such as those regarding the transfer o f responsibilities and resources to local
governments) still to be finalized. PROADEL would support the Government o f Chad incompletion of the
regulatory framework and implementation o f decentralization. PROADEL would be concurrent with
decentralization, with the project's institutional arrangements designed to comply with the decentralization
framework, especially with regard to the future communautis rurales created under a June 2002 law.



                                                      - 7 -

The Povertv Reduction Strategy

The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) was adopted by the Government inJune 2003. PROADEL
has been designed to support the strategy's implementation. For example, the increased participation of
rural communities inlocal development promoted by PROADEL complies with an explicit recommendation
for the promotion o f govemance under the first national objective o f Chad's PRSP. PROADEL also aims
to link participation of communities with decentralization, which is also planned under the same strategic
objective o f the PRSP. More specifically PROADEL components would establish links at the community
level between the various strategic axes o f the PRSP (table 1).

     Table 1.Links between PROADEL components and PRSP strategic orientations

                         Axis 1 :         Axis 2 :             Axis 3 :          Axis 4 :          Axis 5 :
                     Promotegood      Promote strong       Improve human      Improve living     Restoreand
                       governance     and sustainable           capital        condition of    istain ecosystems
                                      xonomic growth                        minerable groups

                                       PROADEL will        PROADEL will                        Zofinancing of
 Financial                             cofinance           cofinance                           subprojects
 supportto local                       collective          collective                          iddressing
 development                           investments         investmentsto                       management and
 subprojects                           including basic     improve access to                   improvementof
                                       infrastructure      basic health and                    naturalresources
                                       (road network,      education                           by communities
                                       water, energy)      services

 Component2 : Communities wil          PROADEL will        PROADEL will     Preparationof      PROADELwill
 Capacity buildin!  participate in     support capacity    support          Local              reinforce the
 for local          decisionsby        building of         campaignsto      Development        communities'
 development        submitting their   microfinance        influence         Plans and         capacityfor
 stakeholders       requestsand        institutions        behavior          identificationof  integrated
                    electing                               conduciveto      priorities will    management o f
                    representativein                       poverty reduction take into account naturalresources
                    the Decision                                             the needs of
                    Committees                                               vulnerable groups

 Component3 : Support for              The PRSP
 Support for        decentralization   identifies
 decentralization   will consist of    land-tenure
                    preparation o f    issues (insecure
                    required           landproperty,
                    regulatory texts,  conflicts
                    support to the     between
                    decentralization   breedersand
                    ministry,          farmers) as a
                    sensitization at   key constraint
                    the national,      on rural
                    regional, and      development.
                    local levels, and  Pilot activities
                    strengthening of   will address
                    the capacitiesof   these issues
I                   communes



                                                      - 8 -

  Component 4 : This component
  Management          will establish
  and                 links with the
  information         monitoring
  support             system of the
                      PRSP



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Support to be provided under PROADEL would address the main issues as described inB.2, as follows:

Issue 1:Weak and inefficient provision o f basic services to the rural population. The project would increase
the availability o f social and economic services inrural areas by (i)   financing community infrastructures on
a demand-driven basis and inaccordance with national policies and guidelines; (ii)         improving the technical
and managerial skills o f local staff (teachers, nurses, civil officers); and (iii)creating conditions that ensure
the long-term sustainability o f services by promoting capacity building. The project would encourage the
establishment o f private service providers and the active involvement o f communities in managing local
services. And the project would foster decentralization by establishing more efficient and more
demand-driven services.

Issue 2: Fragile ecosystems. The project would finance (i)     investments and capacity- buildingactivities that
protect and restore the natural resource base and (ii)   initiatives that benefit biodiversity. The project would
deal with degradation o f natural resources at several levels: (i)   at the local level, the project would actively
formulate and implement land management plans that promote the small-scale, rational use o f natural
resources (largely based o n the AEDE experience and pilot pastoral projects, community forestry, soil
erosion management, and fertility enhancement techniques), and allow viiiages to generate funds from
sustainable harvesting o f woodfuels; (ii)at the dipartement level, the project would consolidate several
local proposals to finance environmental interventions on a larger scale (such as community-managed
natural forests and protected areas and watershed management); and (iii)          at the national level, the project
would establish an environmental information management system and adopt a regulatory and fiscal
framework to encourage protection and restoration o f natural resources. The National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) and The Fight Against DesertificationNational Plan (FADN) exercises would provide
the project with relevant orientation information. The long-term horizon o f PROADEL allows for inclusion
o f diagnostic studies and pilot projects on degradation o f natural resources in the first phase and
development o f appropriate interventions in later phases. And the analysis o f land tenure issues would
receive specific attention.

 Issue 3: Weak organization of rural communities and limited involvement in decisions concerning their
 development. The project would finance socioeconomic investments identified and managed by local
 communities while building the managerial and planning capability o f those communities and increasing
 transparency and accountability at the local level. While administrative decentralization would likely take a
 long time to complete, the project would establish mechanisms for improving the efficiency o f coordination
 activities that would increase the participation o f civil society during decentralization. The involvement o f
 women and other underprivileged groups (youth, transhumant herders) in their community's development
 would receive particular attention.

 Issue 4: Weak rural finance services. The project would support the Government inthe completion o f the
 regulatory framework for microfinance inChad and provide institutional support to microfinance
 institutions by strengthening their capabilities.


                                                        - 9 -

The project's strategic choices are inline with the CDD approach and are as follows:

   Communitv development or agricultural development. Rural growth would remain the main engine o f
   Chad's economy, even during the oil era. This project is part o f a larger Program o f Interventions for
   Rural Development (PIDR). The combined efforts o f PROADEL and ASPOP would contribute to
   sustained rural growth ina framework o f strengthened capacity o f local and central stakeholders.

   Long-term or short-term horizons. Activities to be undertaken are ambitious and demand long-term
   commitment. No single-phase short-term project could deal with the issues at stake and achieve the
   objectives o f national coverage and enhancement o f the regulatory framework. A multiphased
   long-term program would be able to buildon early results, with an experimentation phase followed by
   an expansion phase and then a consolidation phase.

   Decentralized or centralized approach. This project has chosen a participatory approach demanding
   decentralized powers and resources at the lowest level o f intervention. Addressing poverty requires
   approaches tailored to each zone o f intervention.

   Multisector or sectoral intervention. Poverty is multidimensional and demands a multisectoral
   approach. A demand-driven approach cannot be pursued without a multisectoral vision because rural
   development is the result o f activities in agriculture, health, education, transport, housing, and others.
   Butconsistency with sectoral development programs andnational policiesis necessary.


4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
   To allow for the best adjustment o f the program according to its performance, the program is designed
   to allow for overlap o f the successive phases. Phases would be initiated independent o f the termination
   dates o f the previous phase and triggered when specific results have been accomplished. The following
   actions and triggers are proposed for each phase:




                                                    - 10-

                  PROGRAMDESCRIPTION& PERFORMANCETRIGGERS
                                      FORSUBSEQUENTPHASES
~




              Will initiate the program in 19dipartements out o f47.
               Will help define the decentralization framework and planthe transfer o fresponsibility to
               decentralized authorities.

   'riggers  - 50%  o f targeted communities have prepared and adopted their Local Development Plans

             - 50% o
               inthe 11southern "strong intervention" dipartements (see map) ;
                      f these communities have at least one sub-project whose first financing tranche has
             - beenodisbursed;
               75%    f decision committees are inplace inthese 11dipartements andhave met at least
               once;
               Decentralization regulatory texts have been enacted and adopted by the national assembly,
             - and 50%ofor f the application texts projects are available;
               Timetable       administrative election (communes and communautis rurales ) has been

             - At least
               defined;
                        0.5% o f oil revenues devoted to priority sectors are disbursed for subprojects that
               come within the scope o f Local Development Plans.
                                                              n
   Phase 2     Will scale upthe activities o f the program and expandcoverage up to 32 out o f47
               dipartements    .
               Will continue support to the decentralization implementation plan, and follow-up the
               support to the fiscal decentralization and to the implementation o f the national training anc
               capacity buildingo f the electedlocal governments.
 ~




   Triggers  - 75%  o f targeted communities have prepared and adopted their local development plans

             - 50%
               P P I ;
                    o f targeted communities have at least one subproject whose last tranche has been
             - disbursed;decision
               75% o f             committees are inplace and have met at least once;
             -
             - Electionsnational
                          incommunes and communautis rurales have taken place;
               75% o f            resources budgeted for decentralized authorities are actually transferred. I
  ~




 L                                                         ~




   Phase 3     Will achieve national coverage, consolidate the achievements o f the previous phases and
               contribute to the implementation o f the policy measures needed to ensure the long-term
               sustainibility o f the process.




                                              - 11 -

Expansion to new phases o f the program would be subject to an appraisal assessing the feasibility o f the
new phase. The appraisal would include (i)    evaluation o f the results o f the previous phase, assessed against
trigger indicators, and (ii)  preparatory studies for each new ddpartement to be covered, detailing social,
economic, and environmental analyses.

C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed descriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):

The project would have four components: (i)         financial support to local development subprojects, (ii)
capacity buildingfor communities, (iii) for decentralization, and (iv) management and information
                                          support
support.

For each component the preliminary cost estimates are as follows:




 Capacity buildingfor local development stakeholders                   18.68          40.6        4.58         19.9
 Support for decentralization                                           5.06          11.0        3.40         14.8
 Management and Information support                                     8.3 1         18.1        4.90        21.3
                                                                                       0.0        0.00          0.0
                                            Total Project Costs       46.00         100.0        23.00        100.0
                                    Total Financing ReauiredI         46.00         100.0 I      23.00 I      100.0

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:


e    Decentralization. The project would accompany and support decentralization by providing capacity
     building for decentralized entities and elaborating a sound regulatory framework for decentralization
     and a master plan for its implementation.

e    Distribution o f public funds, especiallv oil revenues, through the network o f decentralized entities. In
     accordance with the Law on Oil Revenue Management, the Government has committed to using part of
     the royalties and dividends deposited into the Special Petroleum Revenue Accounts for incremental
     expenditures in key sectors contributing to poverty reduction (education, health and social services,
     rural development, infrastructure, environment, and water resources). The Project will help monitoring
     the Government o f Chad to channel part of these funds through decentralized financial mechanisms and
     disburse them based on Local Development Plans.

3. Benefits and target population:
Targetpopulation

The primary target population consists o f communities inrural areas and urban areas except the main cities
of N'Djamena, Moundou, and Sahr. Local communities are made up o f people living in one or several
villages, districts, hamlets, or campments sharing use o f the space and natural resources around the
settlements. Women, transhumant herders, and other underprivileged groups would be actively targeted to


                                                      -12-

ensure that they (i) receive their share of benefits from project activities and (ii)are able to effectively
participate in decisions affecting the program and the development o f their community. Service providers
would be contracted to support communities in participatory assessments and Local Development Plan
preparation and implementation, and they would be asked to focus specifically on underprivileged groups.
Decision Committees to decide on subprojects would comprise representatives o f communities and include
women as members. Other beneficiaries be strengthened by the project would be decentralized authorities,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and service providers.

The Government o f Chad, inagreement with donors, has chosen to target several ddpartements for the first
phase o f the program. Zones and types o f activities were chosen to (i)   quickly cover the oil and cotton
production area, which will be more and more socially sensitive; (ii)allow an efficient and successful start
o f PROADEL; and (iii)    launch activities in sedentary and pastoral areas. PROADEL would start in the
ddpartements o f Mandoul Occidental, Mandoul Oriental, and Bahr Sara (in the region o f Mandoul) and
expand to Dodje, Lac Weye, Ngourkosso, Tandjile Est, and Tandjile Ouest (inthe regions o f Tandjile and
Logone Occidental), which are in the oil-producing area. To complete the coverage o f the oil production
area, PROADEL would also include L a Nya Pende, L a Pende, and Monts de Lam(inthe region o f Logone
Oriental), once FACIL is no longer active. PROADEL would launch some studies and pilot activities in
pastoral areas, the dipartements of Chari, Baguirmi, Loug Chari, Dababa, Bahr El Gazal, Bahr Koh, Bahr
Signaka and Fitri (in the regions o f Chari-Baguirmi, Kanem, and Hadjer Lamis) to refine the participatory
approach prior to the following phases and to implement household energy activities in the N'Djamena
woodfuel supply basin (see map section).

For Project Component 1 (financial support to local development subprojects), availability o f funds would
be partly preset for each sous-prdfecture or ddpartement to strengthenpriority setting by the communities.

0   60% o fthe Component 1resources would be allocated on a per capita basis ;

0   30% of the Component 1 resources would remain available on a first-come, first-served basis, up to
    FCFA 140million (US$200,000) per rural community or commune each year ;

0    10%o f the Component 1resources would be distributed as awards to beneficiaries best meetingproject
    expectations, based on the following criteria: good govemance, good administrative and financial
    management, accounting for marginalized populations, and good infrastructure management.

The resource envelopes for each sous-prdfecture or dipartement would be revised each year following the
criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual. Dynamic communities might then receive more
funds.

Expected benefits

Expected benefits o f the project are:

Improved living conditions:

    (i) Improvedhealth, food security, and education.
    (ii) Improved access to social services.
    (iii) Improved communication.




                                                   - 13-

Strengthened local capacity:

     (i) toplan,implement,andmonitorLocalDevelopmentPlansandprojects.
       Ability
     (ii)
        Transparency inmanaging local financial resources.
     (iii)
         Accountability o f elected bodies and communities.

Strengthened central institutional capacity:

     (i)
       Implementationo f decentralization.
     (ii)
        Deconcentration o f line ministries.
     (iii)
         Improved use o f scarce budgetary resources.

Preservation of natural resources:

     (i)
       Reduction of soil erosion.
     (ii)
        Reduction o f deforestation.
     (iii)
         Conservation o f biodiversity.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:

The Ministry of Land Management, Urbanism, and Habitat would have institutional responsibility for the
project.

Imdementation Deriod

The programwould be implemented over a period o fupto 12 years, and the proposed project represents its
first phase. The duration o f each phase would depend on the progress made in attaining the predefined
triggers.

Proiect imdementation (See annex 12)

The Government has prepared a comprehensive Project Implementation Manual, a Monitoring and
Evaluation Manual,      and an Administrative,     Financial,  and Accounting Manual. The Project
Implementation Manual defines procedural arrangements for implementing the project and includes
guidelines for identifying, approving, implementing, supervising, and evaluating subprojects. Adoption o f
the Project Implementation Manual by the Government in a manner satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition o fproject effectiveness.

Implementation of PROADEL would be concurrent with decentralization, which was begun by the
Government of Chad in 1996. The project's institutional arrangements have been designed to comply with
the decentralization framework defined inlaws 002/PR/2000, 07/PR/2002and 03/PR/2004, especially with
regard to the communautis rurales. Four levels in the administrative organization o f the country are
involved inPROADEL's organization:

(1) Community level: the commiinatitis riirales, created by the law o f June 5, 2002, and the communes.
Commtinaiitis rurales consist o f one or several villages. Communes are the chief towns o f the rigions,
dipartements, and soils-prifectures.




                                                  -14-

(2) Intermediary level: PROADEL's implementation requires a decision level that is close to the
communities and that is already represented by major central Government services and the sous-prdficture
was chosen. There are 199 sous-prdfectures. The ddpartement could also be the intermediary level if the
population is less than 5,000 or if MA, ME, MEE, MH, MED, or MTP are not represented at the
sous-prdfecture level.

(3) Middle intermediary level: the ddpartement.

(4) Central level.

Individuals in communatrtds rurales or communes would form community-based organizations, where all
local shareholders would meet with a secretariat to organize meetings and write reports. The meetings
would allow communities to assess their needs and prepare Local Development Plans in a participatory
manner.

Subprefectoral Decision and Approval Committees would also be established with (i)       representatives from
deconcentrated line ministries concemed with submitted subprojects, including ministries incharge o f rural
development, education, health, and local infrastructure; (ii)  an NGO representative chosen by his or her
peers; (iii)a representative o f local rural organizations; and (iv) representatives o f community-based
organizations. The committees would be responsible for (i)approving Local Development Plans and
subproject proposals submitted by community-based organizations, (ii)     consolidating Local Development
Plans into a Subprefectoral Development Plan, and (iii)monitoring the implementation o f those
subprojects. Any deconcentrated line ministry that is not a member of the Subprefectoral Decision and
Approval Committee but is concerned with a subproject request would be involved to share technical
expertise and ensure compliance with national standards and policies. Concemed Deconcentrated line
ministries' technical clearance would be requiredprior to approval o f development plans and subprojects.

A Departmental Decisionand Approval Committee wouldbe established to (i) Local Development
                                                                                approve
Plans submitted by community-based organizations from communes or from the new decentralized
authorities and (ii) monitor and supervise implementation o f Local Development Plans. The committee
would include (i)elected representatives o f the communes management committees; (ii)         representatives
from deconcentrated line ministries concemed with subproject requests, including ministries in charge o f
rural development, education, health, and local infrastructure; (iii)an NGO representative chosen by his or
her peers; (iv) a representative of local rural organizations; and (v) representatives of community-based
organizations, including different local groups (women's associations, youth associations, and others),

Inadditionto technical andoperational backgroundinformationonPROADEL, the minutes ofthe Decision
Committees (including approved Local Development Plans) would be sent to the ASPOP's Departmental
Decision and Approval Committees to strengthen synergies between the two projects.

At the central level there would be a Steering Committee for all the projects o f the PIDR, including
PROADEL and ASPOP. It would (i)           examine and approve the balance sheet o f the previous period's
activities, (ii)
              analyze and adopt the action programs andbudgets, and (iii) corrective measures in case
                                                                            take
o f anomalies. The Steering Committee, to be defmed by legal texts (arrCtd 027/PW2003), would consist of
representatives of ministries and institutions associated with the program (ministries, chambers, NGOs) and
representatives o f producer organizations and community-based organizations. Donors or experts could
attend as observers, ifneeded.




                                                     - 15-

Program Management and Monitoring

Day-to-day management o f project activities would be assigned to a Project Management Unit (PMU) in
N'Djamena, with members recruited by the Ministry of Land Management, Urbanism, and Habitat. It
would consist o f a small management team staffedwith:



0   A coordinator proficient inmanaging development projects.

a   A technical team (a capacity-building specialist, a decentralization specialist, a monitoring and
    evaluation specialist, an environmental and social specialist, and a communication specialist).

a   An operational team (an administrative and financial specialist, an accountant, and a procurement
    specialist).

e   The P M U would be responsible for: (i)coordinating overall implementation o f the project, (ii)
    managing project activities implemented at the central level, (iii)   ensuring availability o f funds, (iv)
    maintaining the books and accounts o fproject activities and producing financial reports, (v) monitoring
    and evaluating implementation and impacts o f the program, (vi) reporting results to various
    stakeholders (administration, donors, civil society, projects, Decision Committees), and (vii) providing
    technical assistance to Local Project Management Units (LPMUs). Most activities would be
    subcontracted by the PMU in accordance with the PROADEL procurement arrangements. Household
    energy activities would be single source contracted to AEDE because it is the only agency that can
    successfully and efficiently implement the activities in a timely manner. Support activities to the
    com-imjities for Iocal plmming, and !oca! work supervision (Subcomponent 2.1) h a n c e d by the
    co-stakeholder, French Development Agency, would be executed by an operator recruited by the
    Ministryof LandManagement, UrbanismandHabitat, following anintemational invitationto tender.

Three LPMUs would be responsible for coordinating project activities in their territory, They would be
established in Koumra, Moundou, and N'Djamena. Each L P M U would comprise an administrator, a
monitoring and evaluation specialist, a capacity-building and animation specialist, an environmental and
social specialist, and an accountant. Rather than being directive, they would concentrate on support
activities to local communities in consultation with local stakeholders. The LPMUs would be responsible
for (i) carrying out capacity-building activities at the local level, (ii)managing the funds to finance the
subprojects, (iii)monitoring and evaluating project activities at the local level, and (iv) reporting to local
stakeholders andthe central PMU.

The P M U and LPMUs would work closely with ASPOP's National Project Coordination Management Unit
and Inter-Regional Project CoordinationUnits to coordinate preparation and implementation of their annual
work programs, organize joint meetings and field missions, and harmonize their training and
communication plans.

The detailed configuration o f the PMU, the LPMUs, the profile o f the staff, and their job descriptions are
described inthe Project ImplementationManual.

Financial Mechanism (see annex 11):

Two special accounts would be opened for the implementation o f the Program , and would be managedby
the PMU:


                                                    - 1 6 -

e   Special Account A (SA-A) to cofinance the subprojects.

e   Special Account B (SA- B) to finance all other categories o f activities (Works, Goods and vehicles,
    Consultant services and audits, training) andproject operating costs (PMULPMU expenses).


The financial management arrangements, including reporting, are detailed in the Project Implementation
Manual and the Administrative and Financial Management Manual.

Financial Management Arrangements

The first phase o f the program would be carried out over four years. Procurement, disbursement, and
decentralized financial management practices would benefit from several new and simplified methods
recently developed and standardized inthe Bank. These methods are described in "Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments" (February 1998), "Guidelines for
Africa Region on Financial Management for Community Action Programs" (October 2000), "Guidelines
for Task Teams on Procurement Procedures Used in Social Funds" (February 2001), and "Fiduciary
Management for Community-Driven Development Projects" (March 2002, draft).

1.CapacigAssessment of thePMUandFinancial Monitoring Reports

A PMU with a competent and experienced staff, including a coordinator and an administrative and
financial management specialist, have been recruited through a competitive process acceptable to D A .
Adequate provision wou!d he made to train the accounting and financial staff. The PMIJ includes a
procurement specialist and an experienced accountant. At the field level, there would be three LPMUs,
comprising inparticular an administrator, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a procurement specialist,
and an accountant.

The project would establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, that would provide the
Recipient and IDA with accurate and timely information on resources and expenditures. The financial
management systemwould include budgetary accounting and financial reporting for intemal control device
and auditing elements. A financial management firm would be selected to design and establish the
computerized financial management systems of the P M U and the LPMUs. The PMU would be responsible
for project administrative and technical coordination and financial management at the central level and the
LPMUs at the regional level. The configuration of the P M U and the LPMUs, the profile o f the staff, and
theirjob descriptions are described inthe Project ImplementationManual.

2. Financial Management

Accounting and Financial Reporting. The PMU and the LPMUs would maintain the books and accounts
of the project activities and ensure that the annual financial statements are produced in a timely manner.
The P M U would be responsible for consolidating project accounts, including those o f the LPMus. A
financial management fm would be selected to design and install a computerized accounting and financial
management system, based o n internationally generally acceptable accounting principles agreed to by the
Bank. The firm would also prepare guidelines for usingthe software, inaccordance with procedures inthe
manual o f budgetary financial and accounting approved by IDA. The firm would train the accounting and
financial management staff o n the operation o f the computerized accounting system, prepare a financial
management training program with an implementation timetable, and provide the project with assistance.


                                                   -17-

The selection o f the accounting software would ensure that the system is supported by a reliable
organization.

The PMU and the LPMUs would maintain their accounts in accordance with intemational accounting
standards, keeping all documentation related to project expenditures and following sound accounting
practices for all financial records. These accounts would be consolidated by the P M U at the central level,
with records to be made available to Bank missions and independent auditors. The accounts o f the project
would be audited annually.

Financial Monitoring Reports. The PMU's administrative and financial management specialist would be
responsible for preparing the Financial Monitoring Reports, according to procedures laid out inthe Project
Implementation Manual. The coordinator o f the PMU would be responsible for ensuring that the reports
are provided to stakeholders and IDA on a timely basis each quarter. Financial Management Reports would
show (i)whether funds disbursed to projects are used for the intended purpose; (ii)        whether project
implementation is on track; and (iii) whether costs remained within budget. Financial information would be
explicitly linked with the project's progress and procurement. The quarterly financial monitoring reports
would include (i)discussion of project progress, (ii)sources and uses o f funds, (iii)    uses o f funds by
expenditure type, (iv) an output monitoring report, and (v) a procurement report. The computerized
accounting system would be customized to generate the Financial Monitoring Reports as indicated in
"Financial Monitoring Reports for World Bank-Financed Projects: Guidelines for Borrowers:" with a
statement showing cash receipts by source, expenditures by main classification, beginning and ending cash
balances o f the project, and supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures. Adequate
financial management arrangements, including the ability to produce a timely Financial MonitoringReport,
would be inplace by credit effectiveness.

Auditing. Project records and accounts would be audited in accordance with intemational audit standards
by an experienced and internationally recognized audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports would be
submitted to IDA no more than six months after the end o f the Government's fiscal year. Inaddition to a
standard short-form report with an opinion o n the annual financial statements, the auditors would be
required to: (i)review all statements o f expenditure and the intemal control procedures goveming their
preparation for the period under audit and express a separate opinion on them; (ii) the management
                                                                                   review
and use o f the special account and the project account and express a separate opinion on each; and (iii)
review the intemal control system o f the project-to  identify its major weaknesses and shortcomings-and
propose practical recommendations for improvement. The audit firm would review the performance o f
randomly selected beneficiaries and provide an opinion on the effectiveness and efficiency o f the lending
and distribution procedures o f the matching grants (Component 1). The results of this review would be
documented ina Management Letter submitted along with the audit report.

The auditors would review and audit the use o f Project Preparation Facility and Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund grant funds covering the period prior to effectiveness. Auditors would also
perform interim audits (nine months into the fiscal year) to review the intemal control system, including
management performance, and issue reports n o more than one month from the end o f their work. The
findings and recommendations o f the interim reports would be addressed by management without delay (no
more than six months from the end o f the fiscal year) before the final audit. Contracting o f auditors on a
renewable multiyear contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by the financial auditors that the project
accounting system is operational would be conditions o f credit effectiveness.




                                                    -18-

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following alternative projects have beenconsidered and rejected:

Alternative without an Adaptable Program Lending (APL). In the absence o f the APL instrument, the
Government o f Chad and the Bank would have been limited to two options: (i)       a general rural investment
fund covering the whole country or a large number of areas or (ii)project (or set o fprojects) supporting a
                                                                     a
limited area and expanding to other areas through new projects. The number o f thematic and regional
projects sponsored by other partners led to an instrument that provides flexibility and a long-term
perspective to complement existing and planned projects in a comprehensive development framework. The
flexibility o f the APL would allow the Government o f Chad to reduce the risk o f failure associated with a
large program and to progressively build a sound national program based on lessons from the first phase
and complementary projects.

A second uhase of the Agricultural and Livestock Services Project (PSAP). PSAP, the Bank's major
intervention in Chad's rural sector in recent years, was closed in fiscal 2003. The program was directed
toward strengthening the national extension service, integrating it with the research sector, and launching
pilot activities to offer more participatory and demand-driven technical assistance services to rural
producers. Lessons from these pilot activities defined much o f PROADEL's approach during preparation
and appraisal. Although some o f the PSAP activities could be relevant to the proposed project, they will be
addressed by another project (ASPOP) which, in the framework o f the PIDR, will concern agricultural
services and producer organizations and will accompany implementation o f this project.

Classical Integrated Rural Develoument Programs (IRDPs). IRDPs have generally failed to provide
sustainable solutions to rural development. Based on a multisectoral approach, they lacked formal
integration with national institutions, failed to provide for adequate participation by local stakeholders in
implementation o f development activities, and involved too much technical assistance. The proposed
project, which would promote a multisectoral approach with significant involvement of local stakeholders
at each step and sound integration with the national administrative framework and existing regional
development programs, is part o f a comprehensive approach to rural development, designed and
implemented incollaboration with major donors andpartners in Chad,

Tou-down or centralized promams. The Government o f Chad has started decentralization, vowing to
disengage from the management o f development activities and to increase the active participation o f rural
residents in the planning and the implementation o f development activities. Chad's communication
mechanisms and transport network do not allow for efficient coordination o f activities with the central
government. As in other countries, projects managed at the central level have been ineffective and failed to
adequately respond to local needs. A program focusing responsibility at the central level would contradict
lessons learned and go against the new political direction o f the country.




                                                     -19-

2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other developmentagencies (completed,


                                                                                      Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                                Project                       (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-finance, irojictsonly)
                                                                                 Implementation   Development
 Bank-financed                                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

 Agriculture                                ASPOP Agricultural Services                S                S
                                            & Producer Organizations
                                            Project Cr 38370, active
 Agriculture                                PSAP Agricultural and                      S                S
                                            Livestock Services Project Cr
                                            26850, closed
 Education                                  Education Sector reform Projecl            S                S
                                            Cr 31390, active
 Health                                     Second Population and AIDS,                S                S
                                            Cr 35480, active
 Health                                     Health Sector Support Project,             S                S
                                            Cr 33420, active
 Energy                                     Petroleum sector management                S                S
                                            capacity building, Cr 33730,
                                            active
 Energy                                     Household Energy Project, Cr               S                S
                                            38020, closed
'Civil works, institutional strengthening NationalTransport Program                    S                S
                                            Support Project, Cr 34260,
~


                                            active
 Other development agencies
 African Development Bank                   education, institutional capacity
                                            building, rural hydraulic
 Agence Franqaise de DCveloppement          rural hydraulic
 CoopCration Franqaise                      rural development

 European Commission                        community development, water
                                            supply, infrastructure, health,
                                            education
 German Technical Cooperation               natural resource management,
                                            community development
 UnitedNations                             natural resource management
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), t  (Highly Unsatis




                                                     - 20 -

 3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design:
 Lessonsfrom the Bank's experiencein Chad

 Through implementation of community-based decentralized development funds (FOSAP, PSAP, FACIL),
 the Bank has leamed that:

0     Demand for community-driven projects is extremely high.

0     If local groups are adequately trained and monitored, they are capable of managing the entire
      subproject cycle, from needs assessmentthrough payment o f service providers.

0    ,Disbursement efficiency is paramount inacquiring and maintaining local interest and dynamics,

0     The participatory approach to rural, social, and socioeconomic infrastructure development is often
      successful andensuresthe sustainability of rural investments.

 The HouseholdEnergy Project (CR 30820 CD, closed on June 30,2004) aimed to create local management
 structures at the village level to manage wood resources. Some 100 villages now manage their resources
 and generate sustainable income from a woodfuel tax and the sale ofwoodfuels. With considerable effort it
 i s possible to develop adequate management capacity at the village level. It is necessary to involve all
 possible stakeholders inthe process, even those not directly involved.

 Lessonsfrom the Bank's experiencein other countries

 Social funds. Initiated in 1987, social funds are currently active in more than 50 countries, financing
 small-scale community interventions that range from infrastructure and social services to training and
 microenterprise development. Originally conceived as emergency measures, social funds have become part
 o f many governments' long-term poverty alleviation strategies. With more than 10 years o f experience,
 considerable analysis is now available on what has and has not worked in social funds. Lessons include the
 importance o f administrative autonomy, close coordination with line ministries, integration into
 sector-based policies and programs, flexible and simple procurement and disbursement requirements,
 simple but rigorous administrative procedures, and high-level political support.

 Communitv Action Program in the Borgou rkgion of Benin. One o f the first community-driven
 development projects in central Africa (1998-2002), the Community Action Program was successful and
 offered the following lessons:

0     Communities must be organized through a special participatory process (village-level participatory
' approach)       to acknowledge and address the development needs o f all segments o f the
      community-particularly       marginalized groups (herders), the underprivileged, women, and the
      young-and    prioritize their needs at the community level through consensus.

0     The training process can be contracted to any operator with the required expertise (consultant f m s ,
      government services, NGOs).

0     Communities give more weight to service delivery speed and accountability o f operators than to the
      level of contribution (financial or in kind) they have to provide. Bureaucracy must therefore be limited,



                                                       -21 -

     andintermediaries between communities andtheir institutional partners (project management, financial
     institutions, government, and services providers) mustbe avoided.

     Direct communication between communities and projects is essential. Staff should be recruited locally,
    provided they have the necessary expertise, or be fluent in at least one local language. Project
     management must be nimble andclose to the beneficiaries (geographically andculturally).

     Operational inter-institutional links must be spelled out clearly through framework contracts from the
     beginning o f implementation to avoid conflicts and delays (with the Government o f Chad's local
     services for review and technical support, with financial institutions for funds management, with other
     partners for technical support and training).

     Even when the literacy rate is low, communities are able to cany out procurement efficiently and
    transparently, often more efficiently than formal institutions (government, NGOs), provided that the
    necessary steps have been taken to ensure ownership and understanding o f the processes and that
     supporting institutions leave the actual leadership of operations to the community.

Niger Natural Resources Management Project. Niger and Chad are very similar in environmental and
socioeconomic background. Rural development is comparable: fragile ecosystems, weak local communities,
inefficient provision o f basic services, and slowly emerging decentralization (laws enacted but no local
elections). In Niger, Community Action Program procedures were introduced and implemented after the
midterm review o f the Natural Resources Management project in early 2000 and the findings o f the
Community Action Program project in Benin were confirmed. Since then procedures have been
successfully implemented by all 125 communities in the project, even with the handicap o f a sparse
network o f bank agencies (as inChad). Within three months communities were able to contract operators to
drill village wells, a process that was still incomplete after 18months before community-based procurement
procedures were introduced InNiger some 80 villages have created wood resource management plans under
the World Bank Energy I1 project (closed in 1992) and continue to manage their wood resources and
produce woodfuel ina sustainable manner.

4. Indicationsof recipient commitment and ownership

     The Government o f Chad has signed a Rural Development Policy Letter on October 27,2003, common
     to ASPOP too, expressing its commitment to some sector-based measures, particularly the allocation of
     oil revenues to rural development, and to the financing o f community subprojects identified by the
     participative processes planned in the framework o f Sectoral Consultation for Rural Development
     projects.

     The Government o f Chad has integrated the strategy presented to donors at the April 1998 roundtable
     and subsequent sectoral meetings (health, rural development, education, and transportation) into a
     comprehensive poverty reduction strategy that would guide the govemment's action and coordinate
     donor assistance. A final PRSP, prepared in close consultation with civil society and external partners,
     has been adopted inJune 2003.

     The Government of Chad is engaged in decentralization, as mandated by the 1996 Constitution.
     Additional resources generated by oil revenue will be earmarked for poverty reduction and will
     increasingly be shared with decentralized entities. At the same time, the execution o f public
     expenditures will be increasingly concemed with the private sector andnongovemmental entities.



                                                      - 22 -

    This institutional setting offers an opportunity to define rural development activities o f national impact
    and local relevance.

0   The Government o f Chad intends to establish a monitoring and evaluation system for the rural sector at
    central and decentralized levels, in line with the proposed approach. The system would be supervised
    by the Permanent Committee for the Follow-up to the Geneva IV Conference (Cellule Permanente de
    Suivi de Gen2ve Iy). The Permanent Committee was established and staffed during the summer o f
    2000 and has contributed to mission identification. The management information system component o f
    the proposed project would provide adequate support to and links with this system and other similar
    interventions for the dissemination andmanagement o f information concerning the sector.

0   The Government o f Chad adopted a law for managing oil revenues and a management plan for oil
    revenues to ensure that oil revenues are used to finance priority sectors for poverty reduction: rural
    development, health, education, and transportation. While rural development should benefit
    substantially from this provision, establishment o f the decentralized financial mechanism sought by the
    present program should constitute an important vehicle for channeling these resources to the rdgions.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:


Large-scale abilities

The APL tool would allow implementation o f a national and wide-ranging community-driven development
program.

Bankwide experience insocial funds and community-driven develoument

The Bank recently incorporated its experience in social funds into the community-driven development
approach, which combines community-driven development and decentralization ina long-term development
dimension. Several community-driven development projects are currently being implemented in Afiican
countries, among them the community-based Rural Development Project in Burkina Faso, the Village
Communities Support Program inGuinea, and the Community Development Project inMadagascar.

Donor coordination

Thanks to its activities inpolicy dialogue, the Bank plays an important role indonor coordination inChad,
having already established a network with major donors that led to an agreement in rural development
strategy (December 2000). Collaboration with other donors in Chad resulted in multidonor missions to
identify a common approach to rural development under the PIDR and to define PROADEL. The AFD
would co-finance the project. Both AFD and Bank financing plans were jointly appraised in December
2002. The AFD would finance part o f the second component and more specifically all the support to
communities for participatory        assessments, local planning, and subproject implementation and
management.




                                                     - 23 -

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit            NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)

This project is not suitable for global cost-benefit analysis because its activities produce benefits that either
are difficult to quantify in economic terms (capacity building, governance, living conditions) or are not
predefined (because o f the program's demand-driven approach). Nevertheless, specific guidelines would be
integrated into the operations manual to ensure that (i)projects that do lend themselves to economic
evaluation are evaluated and (ii)     selection criteria are defmed to preclude uneconomical projects from
eligibility. A major criterion o f evaluation would be analysis o f least-cost alternatives for project-financed
activities, comparing the cost o f similar activities financed by other sources.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial support to submoiects

Steps for subproject financing through PROADEL:

0   Beneficiaries submit a request to Decision Committee for approval.

0    After approval, a financing contract is signed between the concerned L P M U and the beneficiaries.
     Beneficiaries should have already opened an account at a bank or microfinance institution accredited
     by PROADEL (convention signed between microfinance institution and PROADEL). Communities
     would be required to cofinance subprojects, but their level o f financial participation would depend on
     the type o f activity to be financed andwould be finalized during appraisal. Subproject financing would
    be through matching grants to the communities, not credit.

0   The beneficiaries would contract and finance subproject implementation.

Cofinancing. with other donors

This project would be cofinanced with the AFD with parallel arrangements, with support focused on
participatory assessments, community organizations, local planning, and subproject implementation and
management (part of Subcomponent 2.1).

Fiscal Impact:
The project would support fiscal decentralization by helping the Government o f Chad define its modalities.
PROADEL would support completion o f the draft law on the transfer o f resources to local governments
and help the Ministry o f Decentralization to finalize the application texts to allow local governments to
acquire financial autonomy.




                                                        - 2 4 -

3. Technical:

During the preparation phase the Government of Chad, in collaboration with key stakeholders and other
donors, identified areas o f progressive geographical coverage. They agreed that the first phase of the
program would concentrate on areas where it is likely to succeed, areas that would be socially challenging
duringthe oil era, and areas representative ofthe agroecological diversity ofthe country. PROADEL would
begin in Mandoul Occidental, Mandoul Oriental, and Bahr Sara and expand to Dodje, Lac Weye,
Ngourkosso, Tandjile Est, and Tandjile Ouest. It would cover L a Nya Pende, L a Pende, and Monts de
Lam, once FACIL is no longer active. And it would launch studies and pilot activities inChari, Baguirmi,
Loug Chari, Dababa, Bahr El Gazal, Bahr Koh, Bahr Signaka and Fitri to refine the participatory
approach inpastoral areas and to implement household energy activities inthe N'Djamena woodfuel supply
basin (see MAP section).

Oualitv o f suburoiects. The Project Implementation Manual includes technical criteria for the eligibility o f
subprojects. Deconcentrated line ministries would be involved in subproject evaluation and approval to
ensure technical conformity with national standards.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executingagencies:

Project Steering Committee

A multipartner approach. At the central level, a single Steering Committee would be established to monitor
and guide implementation o f PIDR projects, including PROADEL and ASPOP. The Steering Committee
would consist of:

    0     Representatives of ministries and chambers (MLMUH, MPED, MA, ME, MEE, MTP, MD, and
          others).
    0     Representatives o f civil society (communautisrurales, NGOs, and producer organizations).
    0     Representatives o f the project team as observers, when concerned.
    0     Representatives of donors as observers.

Implementation

Decentralization is evolving. The project would support the decentralization agenda, but decentralization i s
still in its early stages, and its effective implementation is linked in particular to political variables, So
while PROADEL would facilitate implementation of a decentralized administration, it is designed to
function independently o f decentralization. Elected committees would be established at the sous prifecture
or dipartement level and would be incharge o f development plans and subproject evaluation and approval.
Once local elected decentralized authorities are in place, the project would strengthen their capabilities so
that they could take over the responsibilities o f PROADEL Decision Committees.

Though supported by the Government o f Chad, the participatory approach is still at an early stage,
particularly in the accountability o f technical and administrative entities. This issue would be addressed in
the capacity-building component.




                                                     - 25 -

4.2 Project management:
Limited managerial capacity is a serious constraint at the central and the decentralized levels. Staff would
be recruited through a competitive and transparent process and would receive training through the project.


4.3 Procurement issues:
The 2000 Country Procurement Assessment Report for Chad focused on the Government's capability to
manage public resources andon the impact o f recent fiscal reforms on procurement (see annex 6). After the
assessment, the Government adopted new Instructions for Bidders (Guide aux Soumissionnaires) to clarify
the procurement issue. An assessment o f the procurement capacity o f PROADEL's preparation team was
completed during project preparation, leading the Government to agree to implement recommendations for
improvements in procurement efficiency (annex 6). Because most procurement would be conducted at the
local level, particular attention during appraisal was paid to procurement rules and procedures that would
apply to community-based subprojects and carried out by community participation procedures acceptable
to the Bank and described in the Project Implementation Manual. While the P M U at the national level
would be responsible for monitoring all procurement-related issues for project implementation, the LPMUs
at the regional level would be responsible for coordinating project activities at the community level.


4.4 Financial management issues:
To better manage the project and ensure sound and effective financial management, PROADEL is
developing a financial management system comprising (i)an administrative, financial, and accounting
management manual to be discussed during negotiations and finalized before effectiveness and (ii)          a
computerized information, monitoring and evaluation, accounting, and financial management system to
provide accurate and timely information on the status o f the project. The system would (i) user friendly
                                                                                             be
and adaptable over time, taking into account the progressive geographical extension o f the project; (ii)
allow use o f a transparent accounting and financial management system at the national and regional levels;
(iii) captureoftheflowoffimds; and(iv)haveadequatearrangementsforcostmonitoringforall
     allow
project expenditures. The project's financial management staff, which would comprise a financial
management specialist and an accountant at the national level and three accountants at the regional level,
would be adequately trained to handle the system, ensure good financial management, and produce all
required reports and statements on time.


5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessment and an environmental and social management framework were completed
prior to appraisal, with local stakeholders involved inthe preparation. The final environmental assessment
and environmental and social management framework were received by the Bank o n November 5, 2002,
and have been available inChad and at the Bank's Infoshop since November 21,2002.

Due to the community-driven nature o f the project, with subprojects chosen by communities, it is
impossible to know from the beginning what the project's exact environmental impacts would be.
Consultants have met with local associations, local authorities, and NGOs in several dkpartements
representative o f each agroecological zone (sudanian, sahelo-sudanian, and sahellian) to identify and
appreciate subprojects that would be requested by communities and funded by PROADEL. The consultants


                                                    - 26 -

could therefore evaluate related potential environmental impacts. Of all subprojects potentially fimded by
PROADEL, rural roads improvement and construction are most likely to have negative impacts on the
environment. But any subproject (roads, wells, schools, productive activities) could affect the environment.
Therefore subprojects would be systematically reviewed in advance, and appropriate measures would be
taken to fully disclose potentially negative environmental impacts.


5.2 What are the main features of the EMP andare they adequate?
The proposed environmental and social management fiamework for environmental impact assessment is
founded on PROADEL's design. Therefore, it is proposed:

    (i)TocreateanenvironmentalandsocioeconomicmanagementcellinthePMUatthenationallevel.

    (ii)TocreateenvironmentalandsocioeconomictechnicalcellsintheLPMUs.

    (iii) includerepresentativesoftheMinistryoftheEnvironmentandWaterintheSubprefectural
         To
        Decision and Approval Committees and Departmental Decision and Approval Committees, which
    are responsible for
         subproject approval.

    (iv) To buildthe social and environment assessment capacity o fthese committees.

The mandate o fthe PMUcells would include the training o f L P M U cells andthe monitoring of L P M U cells
and the activities o f the Subprefecture and Departmental Decision and Approval Committees. The P M U
cells would have to produce standard checklists for subprojects with negligible environmental and
socioeconomic impacts. The PMU cells would have to actively participate with the L P M U cells and
Subprefecture and Departmental Decision and Approval Committees in the preparation o f environmental
impact assessments and in environmental monitoring for subprojects with more significant environmental
and socioeconomic impacts. Subprefecture andDepartmental DecisionandApproval Committees would be
responsible for appraising the social and environment aspects o f subprojects, including classifying
subprojects, listing safeguard policies requirements, reviewing assessments, and monitoring mitigation plan
implementation. The LPMU cells would assist Subprefecture and Departmental Decision and Approval
Committees to ensure that national and donor safeguard policies are respected.

Since LPMUs and Subprefecture and Departmental Decision and Approval Committees would be new
management units, considerable training would be needed to make them operational. This training would be
provided by PROADEL (Component 4) and should be planed and executed by the PMU cell at the national
level.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: 11/05/2002

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used andwhich groups were consulted?


Following an information campaign, the consultants visited various ddpartements between April 17, 2002,
and May 19, 2002. They went to the chief town o f dipartements, sous prifecttires, and cantons. Local

                                                        - 27 -

political authorities, civil society representatives, producer organization representatives, women's groups,
and community associations were invited to express themselves on local difficulties impeding the
sustainable development o f their communities.

For household energy activities, some 100 villages already collectively manage their wood resources and
are extremely satisfied doing so. They say that the environmental damage that had been occurring earlier
stopped completely once the management planwas implemented.


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults o f the EMP?


The monitoring and information system o f the project would include environmental assessment monitoring.
The environmental and socioeconomic management cell inthe P M U would be responsible for following up
on environmental indicators.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.


Measures for the inclusion of marginalized groups-particularly           women, youth, HIV-AIDS-affected
people, and transhumant herders.
Women, youth, HIV-AIDS-affected households, and transhumant herders are traditionally excluded from
economic choices concerning communities (poor women consniute a particularly weak groupj, and frequent
conflicts between herders and farmers inthe sudanian and sahelian zones often prevent the involvement of
those groups. Inclusion o f marginalized groups must be effective both at the decisionmaking level (Decision
Committees) and at the subproject level (benefit from investments). Information campaigns and
sensitization efforts would strongly focus on these issues.

Composition of Subprefectoral Decision and Approval Committees,
Having Subprefectoral Decision and Approval Committees at the intervillage level, where people know
each other and share the same cultural background, would facilitate the process. But there are many areas
in Chad where traditional and decentralized administrative authorities may have difficulty coming to
agreement. The project would subcontract trained animateurs to assist communities in their needs
assessments.

Feasibility studies have been completed which would provide the LPMUand animateurs with the necessary
knowledge of the social environment.


6.2 Participatory Approach: H o w are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?


Stakeholders have been included in the project design since the earliest stage o f preparation and would be
involved inimplementation at several points:

   0     The terms o f reference o f the feasibility studies (which includes a social assessment) have been
         discussed with representatives of NGOs.


                                                      - 28 -

         The project preparation working group includes representatives from the Government o f Chad,
         civil society, and women.

         Several workshops have been and would be held in the outlying regions to seek the advice and
         comments o f local beneficiaries and stakeholders. The Project Implementation Manual has been
         discussed with communities, and an illustrated simplified operating manual in local language
         would be produced and disseminated beforehand.

         Stakeholders would name their own representatives to local Decision Committees through a
         participatory process preceded by an informationcampaign.

         Civil society representatives would have a majority o f seats inDecisionCommittees.

         Specific procedures would be put in place to make sure that women and other marginalized social
         groups are involved inproject preparation and implementation.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?


NGOs and civil society have been consulted extensively throughout the project's preparation. During
implementation collaboration with NGOs would be a key element o f success because NGOs can (i) as  act
intermediaries for communities; (ii)provide services to the project, such as needs assessments, training
workshops, and project monitoring; (iii) implement subprojects for the communities; and (iv) be elected to
Decision Committees as representatives of civil society.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?


The project would work in close collaboration with national institutions to make sure that financed
investments are fully supported and staffed.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Social outcome indicators would be included in the monitoring system and linked to poverty reduction
efforts. The indicators would be in common with the Poverty Monitoring System set up under the PRSP
process.




                                                    - 29 -

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.


The environmental assessment of the project conducted during preparation has given a good indication o f
the cumulative environmental impacts to be expected from the project's generic investments. By identifying
issues in advance, proposing measures or changes in technology or construction materials, and
recommending methods for monitoring environmental indicators (through local-level institutions and
structures) commonly affected by project-funded investments, the time and effort required for specific
environmental and socia! zssessme.n,ts o f sdmoiprts
                                                  r J--    w o d d be greatly reduced. The envirwmentz!
assessment o f the project also proposes methods for increasing local government, community, and other
partners' capacities for environmental appraisal and monitoring. The assessment suggests:

    Creating an environmental and social screening, evaluating, and supervising mechanism to ensure that
    funded subprojects are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable and that any adverse
    environmental or social consequences are recognized early in the project cycle. Such a mechanism
    would allow foreknowledge of the major environmental and social issues and impacts o f individual
    subprojects, the set o f measures to avoid them or mitigate those that are unavoidable, and the estimated
    costs o f those measures.

    Raising community awareness about the environmental and social impact o f project-funded activities
    and promoting ways to mitigate or avoid negative effects. This would be done through the project's
    information, education, and communication activities, which would assist indisseminating information
    related to good practices. Other information about appropriate construction materials and methods in
    environmentally sensitive areas, site selection criteria, and other measures to mitigate likely adverse
    impacts could be disseminated through technical handbooks or other means.

    Finding methods for supporting improved natural resource management through the project's
    community-based interventions. The project would facilitate community understanding o f the relation
    between natural resources and well-being, the need to improve both, and the need for action to grow out
    of understanding and be based on the community's own commitment and local structures. Because poor
    communities often lack the impetus and initial capital necessary to get started, environmental problems
    often have to be proactively targeted at the community level. The project would have an active role


                                                   - 30 -

      promoting and supporting projects aimed at improving communities' management o f the natural
      resources that they control and depend on for their livelihoods.

  F. Sustainability and Risks
  1. Sustainability:
  The long-term vision of the program is more decentralized management o f public resources to reduce
  poverty in local communities by taking into account their priorities. Although for operational reasons
  PROADEL would have to establish transitory structures and rely on donor financing, particular attention
  would be paidto institutional and financial sustainability.

  This would be achieved through progressive integration o fthe financing mechanism into the ordinary public
  resources management framework at the national and decentralized levels. Only then could the mechanism
  serve as a channel to transfer oil revenues or Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Debt Initiative hnds
  to local communities, as foreseen inthe Law on Oil Revenue Management.

  First, the sustainability of PROADEL would require that financed subprojects contribute effectively to
  PRSP implementation. Even though the details of PRSP implementation are not yet fully defined, the
  following principles should be taken into account: (i)      PROADEL should aim at respecting normal budget
  procedures. The challenge is to respect programmatic budgeting per sector for resources that are fungible
  (since they are supposed to finance priorities established by communities in a reactive manner), a
  possibility is to budget such resources under the Public Investment Budget with a tentative allocation per
  sector and; (ii)  at the operational level, two types of information should be made available to sector
  ministries: information contained in local development plans for sector ministries to update their plans (map
  ~f schools, health centers, water p~kts,x d the like) and budget thei resou;ces accor&;;g!j..,            a ~ d
  information investments that are ongoing or completed to avoid duplication and to take into account such
. achievements in the monitoring and evaluation o f their sector programs. This exchange o f information
  would take place at the level of the Decision Committees where administration would be represented and
  would require active involvement from these administrations.

  Second, sustainability would require a synchronization of the institutional arrangements with the
  decentralization process that is still at its early stages. As the program is implemented and decentralization
  actually takes place with elected local authorities progressively in place, responsibilities involved in the
  mechanism put in place by PROADEL, in particular those o f local Decision Committees, would be
  transferred to such decentralized authorities, according to modalities defined by GOC.

  Third,the impact ofPROADELwould require the sustainability of investments and infrastructure financed
  by the project. This would first be ensured by actual participation of beneficiaries in the decision on
  investments and by their financial and in-kind contributions for implementation. Beneficiaries would be
  responsible for defining their priorities, supervising implementation, and managing and maintaining such
  investments. Particular attention would be paid to strengthening the capacities o f local communities.

  Furthermore, financing o f subprojects would depend on the provision by beneficiaries of a maintenance
  plan with responsibilities, management, and financing arrangements, and on the availability o f the
  necessary human resources (teachers, healthpersonnel, and the like).




                                                         -31  -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                      Risk                         Risk Rating      I            Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Decision committees are not elected ina                 M          Involvement o f the maximumnumber o f
 transparent and democratic way                                     beneficiaries, encouragement o f discussions,
                                                                     consensusand agreements between them.
 Local populations are not interestedinthe               N          Local needs are so high that this is unlikely.
 realization o f community activities                               However, conditions o f local contribution
                                                                     should be set at a reasonable level andbe
                                                                     comparable to those o f similar projects inChad.
 Lack o f coordination and synergy with                  M           Strong communication will be ensured.
 national policies and with other rural                              Concerned technical ministries will be involved
 development projects.                                               insubprojects implementation. Departmental
                                                                     development frameworks will be elaborated,
                                                                     compiling all the national technical data.



 From Components to Outputs
Beneficiaries do not have enough                        M            However, conditions o f local contribution
resources to cofinance subproject                                    should be set at a reasonable level and be
investments                                                          comparable to those o f similar projects in Chad,
                                                                     Support will be provided for income-generating
                                                                     activities under ASPOP.
Local decision committees suffer from                   M            Specify rule andconditions inloan agreement,
political interference and cannot operate                            including "social audits," full and transparent
 autonomously                                                        disclosure, and so on.
 Competent service providers and                         M           A careful selection ofprogramareas inthe first
 sufficient resources are not readily                                phase will be made, and adequate training can
 available.                                                          be provided and international invitations to
                                                                     bidding launched.
 Existingfinancial institutions do not allow             M           A direct payment by LPMUs is possible in
 for realization o f the necessary transfers                         parallel to reinforcement of the institutions
 o f funds                                                           capacities. Besides, PROADEL will establish
                                                                     conventions with microfinance institutions,
I                                                                    allowing them to act as financial intermediaries
                                                                     to beneficiaries.
                                                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris ,M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)
M


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible clash between Project Management Unitand other govemment entities due to their centralized
functionning.

G. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
The conditions o f effectiveness o f the IDA Grant will be:

0   LPMUs have been established in Koumra and Moundou, each with the following staff: a regional
    coordinator, an accountant, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a social and environmental
    specialist, and a training and communication specialist, all in a manner satisfactory to the Recipient
    and to IDA.

0   The Recipient has employed independent auditors, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.

0   The Recipient has established an accounting and financial management system satisfactory to IDA.

0   The Project Account has been opened and the initial contribution o f FCFA 300 million has been
    deposited init.

2. Other [classifyaccordingto covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
There are no other.


H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments forthefirst year's activities arecompleteandreadyfor thestart
          o f project impiemeniation.
Ix] 1. b) Not applicable.

iXi 2. The procurement documents for the fust year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.
Ixi3. The ProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraised and foundto be realistic and ofsatisfactory
       quality.
   4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Ix] 1. This project complies with allapplicable Bankpolicies.
02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpolicies arerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
                                                                                                            ,~-
       all other applicable Bank policies.                                                                /
                                                                                                       I -
                                                                                                    ,
                                        c
Team Leader                                                                       Country Director




                                                   - 33 -

                             Annex I: Project Design Summary
                       CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project

                 jecti                                                              Critical Assumptions
Sector-relatedCAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:            iectorlcountry reports:   from Goal to Bank Mission)

  Alleviate poverty       0  Percentage o f rural       0  National statistics.   0  Oil-generated revenues
                             population below US$l                                   are managed ina
0 Improve the wellbeing      a day.                     e UNDPHuman                  sustainable way to
  o f rural populations                                    Development Reports.      satisfy the financial
  through sustainable     0  Schoolprimary                                           needs inthe key sectors
  economic growth in         enrollment rate inrural    0  Updated CAS.              for alleviating poverty.
  rural zones and local      areas.
  govemance                                             0  Studies on poverty.    0  Political stability, for
                          0  The literacy rate                                       the development and
                             increases.                 0  PRSP surveys.             successful execution of
                                                                                     the strategies of the
                          0  Medical coverage rate.     0  Reportonthe               sectors and the
                                                           monitoring o f rural      continuation of
                          0  Under-5 mortality rate        sector.                   decentralization and
                             inrural areas.                                          local democratization.

                          0  Percentage of the
                             population with
                             sustainable access to
                             safe water.

                          0  Agricultural GDP
                             annual growth.

                          0  Foodprice index.




                                                  - 34 -

                                  Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
ProgramPurpose:               ind-of-Program Indicators:    'rogram reports:             from Purposeto Goal)

Reduce poverty and             0 75% o ftargeted             0 Supervision missions.      0 Social infrastructures
promote sustainable              communities have                                           financed by the project
development inthe rural          adopted their Local         0 Evaluation of each           are adequately staffed
areas by supporting              Development Plans and,        phase: midterm review        and maintained in
governance and                   30% ofthem have               and final ICR.               satisfactory working
participation at local level.    started implementing                                       conditions.
                                 these plans.                0 Report o f monitoring
PhaseIwill refine the                                          units of the rural sector. 0 Targeted areas profit
approach and mechanisms        0 1%of oil revenues are                                      from complementary
ina limitednumber o f areas      disbursed based on          0 Report o f the PRSP.         activities carried out by
andwill support the              Local Development                                          other development
Sovernment of Chad inthe         Plans.                                                     programs.
beginning stages of its
decentralization agenda        0 10%ofresources                                             A sufficient number of
                                 actually transferred to                                    communities' profits
PhaseI1will expand               local authorities are                                      from the program to
activities to others             disbursed based on                                         have a significant
ddpartments while                LocalDevelopment                                           impact at the national
supporting the largely           Plans.                                                     level.
engaged decentralization
process                        0 Naturalresnurces are                                     e Absence cfmajor
                                 increasingly used                                          external and negative
Phase IIIwill achieve            sustainable to the profit                                  shocks (drought,
national coverage and            o f localvillages.                                         epidemics, war, social
consolidate and integrate                                                                   unrest).
achievements inlasting
local development processes                                                               0 Law 36B applied
                                                                                            throughout the country.




                                                       - 35 -

                                Key Performance         lata Collection Strategy
                                    Indicators                                      ...
                                                                                     Critical Assumptions
                           lutcome I Impact__c_L         roject reports:            .om Objective to Purpose)
                           ndicators:
                             Outcome
Assist the Government o f   0 75% o f targeted           0  Supervision missions.    D Economic, financial,
Chad in designing and         communities inthe 11                                     and social stability of
                               southem "strong              Evaluation o f each        the country and the
                               intervention"                phase: midterm review      concemed areas.
participatory financing       dipartentents have            and final ICR.
mechanism that will            adopted their Local                                   e Adequate political and
empower local communities      Development Plans.           Program monitoring         budgetary support to
and institutions to manage                                  and evaluation reports.    the decentralization
development hnds ina        0  50% ofthese                                             agenda.
transparent and sound way      communities have at       0  Rural Development
and according to their own     least one subproject         Sector Monitoring Unit     Local governments are
priorities and eventually      whose last financing         reports.                   elected ina transparent
contribute to the              tranche has been                                        and democratic way.
decentralization agenda        disbursed.                0  PRSPPoverty
                                                            monitoring system.
                            0  95% o fDecision
                               Committees are inplace    0  Sample studies and
                               inthe 11targeted             surveys.
                               southern dipartements
                               andhave met at least
                               once.

                            0 At   least 300 villages in
                               the N'Djamena
                               woodhel supply basin
                               and 100villages inthe
                               Moundou and Sahr
                               basin sustainably
                               manage their wood
                               resources.

                              Impact

                            0   Improvement o f access
                                to basic social and
                                economic services and
                                infrastructure.

                            0   Increases inutilization
                                of infrastructures and
                                social services and
                                satisfaction o f users.

 Increase inschool
 attendance ratio.

 Increase inpercentage
 ofpopulationwith
 access to safe water.

0Increase innumber of
 staffed andequipped
 health centers per
 inhabitants.

0Wood resources
 contribute to the budget
 of villages.

 Decrease inthe number
 o f conflicts relatedto
 landtenure inthe areas
 concerned by the
 project land initiatives.




                        - 37 -

                                                         lata CollectionStrategy
Hierarchyof Objectives     -KeyPerformance
                                   Indicators
utput from each            butput Indicators:            roject reports:             om Outputs to Objective)
omponent:
, SUPPORT TO LOCAL
1EVELOPMENT
UBPROJECTS

0 Three categories of      0  70% o f approved           0  Supervision missions.    BLocal administrations
  subprojects identified in   subprojects are                                         demonstrate good will
  the Local Development       completed (completion      0  Evaluation of each        and capacity toward the
  Plans are financed: (i) ratio).                           phase: midtermreview      local development
  social and                                                and final ICR.            mechanism.
  socioeconomic
  subprojects; (ii)        0  80% o f local               0 Project monitoring and    Good coordination and
  environment and natura:     beneficiaries                 evaluation reports.       total synergy with the
  resources management        contributions are                                       policies and sector
  subprojects; (iii)          actually paid (actual                                   projects.
  community                   contribution ratio).
  infrastructures
                            0 By midterm review,          0 Local Development
                              45% o f approved              Plan documents.
                              subprojects have been
                              completed.                  0 Field missions.

                            0 By   midterm review, at     0 External audit mission.
                              least 50 classrooms,
                              100water supply
                              infrastructures, 5 health
                              posts and 50 km o f
                              ruralroads have been
                              builtor rehabilitated.

                            0 At least 300                 0 Environmental impact
                              classrooms, 350 water          studies.
                              supply infrastructure,
                              20 health
                              infrastructures, 200 km
                              rural roads have been
                              built or rehabilitated.

                            0  These indicators will bc
                               analyzed per
                               department and per
                               category of subprojects




                                                     - 38 -

 2. CAPACITY
~


 BUILDINGTO LOCAL
 DEVELOPMENT
 STAKEHOLDERS
                               By midtermreview, 150     0 Supervision missions.   Committees are
  0 Communities have put
    inplacethe Decision        training sessions or                                constituted ina
    Committees (CDANSP         sensitization campaigns   0 Evaluation of each      transparent and

    and CDAND), prepared       to benefit                  phase: midterm review   democratic way;
    their Local                community-based             and final ICR.
    Development Plans, and     organizations have been                            0Auditoring companies
    are able to implement      implemented the           0 Project monitoring and  are inplace.
    their sub-projects in a    community level.            evaluation reports.
    participatory manner                                                           Decentralized tax
                              070% of infrastructure     0 Communicationplan.      control system functions
                               carried out under                                   with decentralized
                               subprojects are well      0 Training programs.      agents o f MEE.
                               maintained and
                               operational                 Reports of training
                               (sustainability ratio).     activities.

   0 Priority training needs  0Implementation ratio o f   0Minutes of committees
     of contractors and        the training plans          meetings.
     beneficiaries are         established by the
     idefitifiedand respondcd  LFIvids io the benerti
     to through                of CBOs reaches 60%.
     implementation of
     training plans           0 10%of the trainings
                               (number ofpeople
                               trained) are specifically
                               intended to vulnerable
                               groups.

                              0 10microfinance

 I                              institutions have been
                                established or
                                strengthened.


  3. SUPPORT FOR
  DECENTRALIZATION
                                Decentralization legal    0Lawson                   Govemment is willing
   0 A sound legaland         0

     regulatory framework       texts have been adopted    decentralization         to implement

     for decentralization has   by the national            inventory.               decentralization.

     been finalized and         Assembly and 50% of

      adopted                   applicationtexts
                                projects are available.




                                                       39-

                                Implementation ratio o f    Official court
  0 Priority training needs   0

    o f rural decentralized     the training plans          transcripts conceming

    authorities and o f         established to the          land tenure cases.

    central and                 benefit o f decentralized

    decentralized               authorities reaches

    administrations are         60%.

    identified and responded
    to through                  The 3 CLTO                 0Laws and decrees on

    implementation o f          decentralized units are     the transfer o f

    training plans              operational.                responsibilities and
                                                            resources and woodfuel
                                                            transport tax.

                                10pilot decentralized      0Legal andtechnical
  0 Land tenure issues in
    pilot areas are identified  governments (commune        studies.

    and conflict resolution     level) have been

    approaches are              evaluated and 8 o fthem    0Decentralization PER.

    prepared and tested         are capable o f receiving
                                andmanaging public
                                financial resources to
                                take over local
                                development.


14. MANAGEMENTAND
,INFOPMATION
 SUPPORT

  0 The program is                                                                     Intersector and
                              0 70% o f activity reports   0Evaluation o f each       0

    managed inconformity        produced by the             phase: midterm review      interproject
    with defined                execution authorities o f   and final ICR.             collaboration (between
    procedures.                 the project and by the                                 the various systems of
                                communities are rated                                  monitoring).
                                satisfactory.



                               080% o f the reports to be  0 Project monitoring and
  0 Necessary information       prepared by the P M U        evaluation reports.
     is available, reliable,    underthe project
     and regularly              monitoring and               Web site o f the
     disseminatedto the         evaluation manual have       program.
     various stakeholders on    been issued ina timely
     time                       manner.                    0 Development plan
                                                             forms.
                               e 80% ofcontracts signec
                                by the PMU have been       0 Report o f participation
                                executed on time.            diagnosis (investigation
                                                             near the recipients).




                                                       -40-

                                 Key Performance        lata Collection Strategy
                                     Indicators
                             nputs: (budget for each    roject reports:            .om Components to
                             :omponent)                                            utputs)

1. Supportto local           'hase I: 13.95 millions
                                     US$                  B Supervision missions.   BCommunities have
development subprojects                                                              enough financial
                                                                                      capacity to cofinance
                                                                                      projects.

                                                          B Evaluation of each      B Existence o f sufficient
                                                            phase: midtermreview      andcompetent local
                                                            and final ICR.            contractors and service
                                                                                      providers.

                                                                                      Local banks and
                                                                                      financial institutions are
                                                                                      available to channel
                                                                                      LDFfunds.
                             ?hase11:US$
                             ?hase111: US$

 2. Capacity buildingto local PhaseI:US$ 18.68 millions   0 Disbursement reports    0 Human and material
 development stakeholders                                   (quarterly).              resources and
                                                                                      communication
                                                                                      infrastructures exist.

I                                                                                   0 Elected local
                                                                                      committees are
                                                                                      respectedand
                                                                                       competent enough to
                                                                                       assist beneficiaries.
                              Phase 11: US$
                              Phase 111:US$                0 Progress reports
                                                             (quarterly).

 3. Support for               Phase I:US$ 5.06 millions    0 Annual audits.            Decentralization agend
 decentralization                                                                      is successfully
                                                                                       implemented.
                              Phase 11: US$
                              Phase 111:US$

 4. Management and            Phase I: 8.3 1million
                                      US$                                            0 Actors and relevant
 information support                                                                   implementing agencies
                                                                                       are collaborating to
                                                                                       provide timely data.

                                                                                     0  Fundingis secured.



                                                     -44-

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                        CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project

The following parts describe all components andrelated implementation arrangements, including
activities which are not to be fhnded by IDA.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$13.95 million
                       -
Of which IDA Grant: US $10.12 million

Financialsupport to localdevelopmentsubproiects

Obiective:

PROADEL would provide matching grants to cofinance subprojects proposed by community-based
organizations (associations, organizations, and others with legal status) or decentralized local government
entities (at the commune or communautk rtrrale level, once established). Its purpose i s to reduce poverty by
stimulating local development and improving communities' livelihood.

Fundamental Characteristics:

Three main principles would be applied with specific objectives:

0   To avoid capture of financiai resources by iocai eiites, the project wouid make sure that every process
    (subproject identification, selection, and implementation) is participatory and that management of
    resources is transparent.

e   To ensure sustainability of investments, contributions of beneficiaries would be mandatory, with local
    maintenance responsibility.

e   To ensure that local sector issues are addressed, PROADEL would be demand-driven and offer an
     open menu of choices with a negative list.

Eligible subprojects:

PROADEL would be demand-driven and thus finance almost any type of community-based development
project that communities deem important, so long as it is not included on the negative list and meets the
eligibility criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual. There are three main criteria: (i)
communities would have to submit subprojects derived from a participatory assessment o f their needs, (ii)
communities would have to make contributions of their own (cash, labor, or materials), and (iii)
subprojects would have to be sustainable, that is, a maintenance scheme has to be established (management
committee, financial resources), the capacity o f beneficiaries for maintenance of the subproject has to be
proved, or competent human resources have to be available to run the infrastructure (health personnel,
teachers).




                                                    - 42 -

The project would finance:

0   Small social activities such as transport (bridges), education (classrooms), health (health posts,
    HIV/AIDS prevention and information, personneltraining), and water and sanitation (wells).

0   Management o f natural resources activities such as erosion control, tree nurseries, forests management,
    and altematives to fuelwood.

0   Large-scale and more expensive collective infrastructure projects that would affect several villages or
    cantons, such as drilling, rural roads, and water supply systems. Such projects might be submitted by
    communes and would be eligible for a PROADEL IDA grant if they could not be financed through a
    relevant sectoral project.

Financial mechanisms

Two options can be taken regarding the management o f the funds: (i) management by the beneficiary
                                                                      direct
groups in case they dispose o f sufficient capacities and the fmancial structures exist or (ii)direct payment
of enterprises and service providers by the LPMUs in case the above criteria are not matched. These
criteria are detailed inthe Project Implementation Manual. Inboth cases the beneficiaries order the funds.
The final objective o f the project is to make beneficiaries more responsible regarding the management o f
funds.

PROADEL has been designed to support and comply with the decentralization framework. Chad is
currect1y divided icte 47 ddpmtments with 199 "urban" c c m m " ,          correspcndkg tc chief tcwns f ~ r
rdgions, ddpartements and sous-prifectures. Most of these urban communes have the same development
issues as the rural areas surrounding them and would be covered by PROADEL. The biggest urban
centers, N'Djamena, Moundou, and Sahr, have very different problems and would not be included in the
project.     .


Following a participatory assessment o f their needs, each village or district would prepare a Local
Development Plan detailing its perceived priorities and listing activities to be financed (subprojects).
Participatory appraisal would be supported by PROADEL (Component 2). Decision and Approval
Committees would be constituted at the sous prtifecture level (or at the ddpartement level if demographic
pressure is too low and if critical technical services are not represented at the sous prdfecture level) to
approve Local Development Plans and subprojects o f communities. The Subprefectoral or Departmental
Decision and Approval Committees would be made up o f elected representatives from the communities,
NGOs,rural associations, and deconcentrated line ministries, but civil society would have a majority o f the
seats. Specific efforts would be made to encourage representation from underrepresented groups, such as
women, nomads, and young people. Decision Committees would also be constituted at the ddpartement
level to approve Local Development Plans and subprojects submitted by decentralized authorities. They
would be comprised o f elected representatives from the communes, the communities, NGOs, rural
associations and deconcentrated line ministries, but civil society would again have a majority o f the seats.
Specific  efforts would also be made to encourage representation from underrepresented groups, such as
women, nomads, and young people.

Local Development Plans would have to conform with policy planning and technical standards defined at
the national and ddpartment levels. Communities would then prepare the subprojects' technical documents,
with contracted technical assistance, if necessary. The Subprefectoral or Departmental Decision and

                                                    - 43 -

Approval Committees would approve projects provided that (i) content is consistent with national
                                                                      their
standards, (ii) they conform with the approved development plans, and (iii) sustainability plan has been
                                                                                a
provided. The first section o f the financing o f the subprojects would be paid only if the beneficiaries have
provided their contribution (cash, labor, or material). The levels o f contribution are set out in the Project
Implementation Manual and may evolve during implementation. They depend on (i)          the type o f subproject
proposed, (ii)the region in which it is to take place, and (iii)other projects' local practices. The
beneficiaries would then implement the subprojects.

The operational procedures would be consistent with similar Bank and non-Bank mechanisms in Chad, to
facilitate the transition to a coordinated management system and the establishment o f a network of
community-development funds in Chad. Once local governments are elected and legally established,
Decision Committees would include elected councilors and progressively hand over their responsibility to
local governments (during subsequent APL phases).

Consistency with sectoralpolicies andprojects

Given the demand-driven multisectoral nature o f the program, the subprojects may touch upon a wide
spectrum of sectors, including health, education, transport, energy, and water and sanitation. Because these
projects must be consistent with national policy, the following precautions would need to be taken:

- Ensuring conformity. The subprojects must conform with the legal, regulatory, and technical standards
defined by national policy. To this end (i)    technical line ministries have been involved in the approbation
process; (ii) each department would prepare a Departmental Development Framework to compile all the
national sectoral data (technical standards, national policy) for use as a decision tool inthe Subprefectoral
or Departmental Eecision a d Annrova! Co,mittees
                                      YY                      and the Project Management Units; (iii)the
Subprefectoral or Departmental Decision and Approval Committees would include deconcentrated line
ministries representatives inthe approval process o f each subproject.
- Assessing  the feasibility of other project involvement. Once local development plans have been identified
and submitted by the communities, local sectoral projects would be consulted to establish whether or not
they can support andimplement any o f the proposed subprojects.

- Ensuring sustainability. Each subproject would be required to provide evidence o f sustainability through
(i)maintenanceplan(financial plan,managementcommittee) and(ii)theavailabilityofthenecessary
   a
humanresources (health personnel, teachers).

- PROADEL      documents (Local Development Plans, minutes o f meetings, general documentation) would be
sent to sector-based ministries, especially at the local action committee level.

An overview o fthe sectors inChad (development status, existing projects, national policy) and of
their interactions with PROADEL is presented inannex 14.




                                                      - 44 -

Cost and financinp:


IDA Grant would finance this component but communities contributions are supposed to add US$ 1.66
millions and progressively the Govemment would progressively add some resources to finance additional
sub-projects, once oil revenues are available



ProjectComponent 2 US$18.68 million
                       -
Ofwhich IDA Grant: US $4.48 million

Capaciw buildingfor local development stakeholders

Obiective

The objective o f this component is to strengthen the technical and organizational capacity at the community
level for participatory approaches, needs assessments, project management, access to credit, or new
poverty reduction behaviors. It would specifically target local communities and their associations,
Subprefectoral and Departmental Decision and Approval Committees, and service providers (training
institutions, NGOs, microfinance institutions). Given the multisectoral nature o f the program, these
capacity-building activities may concem a wide spectrum o f sectors including health, environment,
education, transport, and energy. This component would be implemented in local languages and would
prioritize the leaming-by-doing approach as opposed to the lecture approach.

The component has three subcomponents:

Subcomponent 2.1: Support to community participatory assessments and local development plan
preparation and implementation. This subcomponent would be fully executed by an opirateur recruited
through an intemational invitation to tender based on the terms o f reference detailed in the Project
Implementation Manual. Following training sessions, contracted animators would go to villages to assist
local communities, recognizing their common interests, identifying their problems, understanding their
priorities, and proposing solutions under a list o f subprojects and preparing Local Development Plans.
They would also assist local communities in electing representatives for the Subprefectoral and
Departmental Decision and Approval Committees. After Local Development Plan approval by the
Subprefectoral or Departmental Decision and Approval Committees, animators would assist communities
in preparing subproject requests (technical documents, feasibility studies including environmental and
social assessments, if required) and implementing them (contracting, monitoring, managing, and so on).
Women, young people, transhumant herders, and other underprivileged groups would be targeted to ensure
that (i) they receive their share o f benefits from the project activities and that (ii) are able to participate
                                                                                       they
effectively inthe decisions affecting the project and the development o f their community. The participatory
approach would have to be adapted to the local context. Inparticular, techniques would have to be different
inpastoral areas, where most of the population is nomadic. To address this issue, complementary studies
and pilot operations would be launched in the pastoral dipartements o f Chari, Baguirmi, Loug Chari,
Dababa, Bahr El Gazal, Bahr Signaka, Bahr Koh and Fitriduring the first phase o f PROADEL.

Subcomponent2.2.: Training programs at the coininunity level. Training programs would be provided
by local subcontractors and would include a wide variety o f modules determined during the participatory
assessments. They would be centered on:



                                                      - 45 -

- Strengthening o f Subprefectoral and Departmental Decision and Approval Committees so that they can
execute the activities envisaged under the project (local govemance, strategic planning, human resources
management, environmental and social assessments, monitoring, communication, andthe like).

-  Specific training for communities to promote beha4ior changes contributing to poverty reduction.
Training could include information, sensitization, and pilot initiatives as demonstration tools: literacy
programs to accompany village and district organization, HIV/AIDS prevention and awareness training (in
collaboration with the World Bank HIV/AIDS Project), campaigns for better nutrition and hygiene, better
techniques for management o f natural resources, especially in the N'Djamena and Moundou woodfuel
supply basins, and so on. For increased impact and better efficiency, attending some o f these modules
would be mandatory for communities to access financing for their subprojects.

Subcomponent 2.3.: Institutional support to microfinance                  institutions.The objective o f this
subcomponent is to provide efficient financial services to poor communities in rural areas. Following
several meetings involving Chadian authorities and donors, it has been agreed that the project would
concentrate its activities on:

- Support for defining and implementing a regulatory framework.

- Specific training for microfinance institutions and communities on savings and credit basics.

- Support networks reinforcement and expansion o f existing microfinance institutions: feasibility studies,
business plans set-up, equipment, andthe like.

This support wou2d consider (i) nztional policy, which is currently being completed; (ii) nationa!
                                  the                                                             the
and regional legal framework (COBAC); and (iii)       other projects involved inmicrofinance support inChad;
and would comply with and contribute to implementation o f the microfinance action plano fthe PRSP.

These activities would be more specifically defined ina feasibility study currently under way.

Cost andFinancing.:

AFD will totally finance activities of the subcomponent 2.1. inthe southem region and in the departments
o f Dababa, Baguirmi and Loug Chari, while the Government o f Chad would add some resources to conduct
pilot activities inChari, Bahr Koh, Bahr Signaka, Fitri and Bahr El Gazal for this subcomponent. Support
to communities (subcomponent 2.2.) would be financed by IDA Grant and the Government would also
contribute to this subcomponent by financing institutional capacity building o f administrative services
involved in the implementation of the Project (AEDE, deconcentrated services). IDA Grant will also fully
finance the subcomponent 2.3.

Project Component 3 US$ 5.06 million
                       -
Ofwhich IDA Grant: US $3.5 million

Support for decentralization

Obiective:

The overall objective o f the proposed support is to assist the Government o f Chad in the effective
implementation o f its decentralization policy. It includes the following three subcomponents:


                                                      - 4 6 -

Subcomponent 3.1.: Support to the completion of the legal and regulatory hmeworks of the
decentralization. This would consist o f studies and technical support to the Ministry of Decentralization in
the completion of necessary laws and regulations and in the formulation o f a master plan for
implementationo f the decentralization program. More specifically, it would cover:
-  Definition o f the mandate and responsibilities of the decentralized authorities at the regional,
departmental, commune, andcommunautd rurale levels.

- Definition of the programming and planning process to be followed by the communes and communautds
rurales (annual action plan, work program, development plans); the setup o f communautds rurales.

- Status o felectedpeople.

- Administrative   deconcentration.

- Fiscal decentralization framework and definition o f fmancial mechanisms to be established to channel
funds to the communes andcomnzunautis rurales, including taxes onthe transport o f woodfuels.

Subcomponent 3.2.: Capacity building. This second subcomponent aims at strengthening the institutional
and technical capacities o f all key stakeholders o f the decentralization process at the national, regional, and
local levels.

Itwould include:

a) Carrying out an assessment o f the Ministry o f Decentralization training needs to strengthen its capacity
to fulfill its mission of managing and guiding the decentralization process. A well-targeted training program
for its three key directorates would be designed and implemented throughout the project.

b) Acquiring equipment and vehicles, and rehabilitating or constructing offices for the Ministry of
Decentralization.

c) Providing technical advisory services to the Ministry o f Decentralization: (i)        in the definition of a
communication strategy on decentralization, (ii)in the organization o f information and awareness
campaigns on decentralization, (iii)in the establishment o f a management information system on local
governments, and (iv) in the formulation o f specific training modules on decentralization for all
stakeholders (local governments, when established; decentralized authorities at the regional, departmental,
and subprefectoral levels; deconcentrated line ministries; communities; the private sector; and traditional
authorities.

d) Testing the above training, communication, andpolicies in 10 communes inthe 19 ddpartements to be
covered by the first phase o f the PROADEL by assessing the level of development and capacities inthese
10 communes and (ii)     strengthening local capacities within these communes through training and purchase
o f equipment.

e) Providing equipment, training, and technical advisory services to staff at the central and departmental
levels o f the Ministry o f Land Management, Urbanism, and Habitat.




                                                      - 4 7 -

Subcomponent 3.3.: Support to the Land tenure definition. The project would improve the land tenure
system in Chad by (i)    creating a reliable data base on land tenure in Chad (operators, existing data), (ii)
defining new curricula and research programs on land tenure, (iii)  collecting data needed for PROADEL's
activities, and (iv) providing equipment to support the Chadian LandTenure Office (CLTO) (Obsewatoire
Foncier du Tchad). Three pilot decentralized CLTO units (Cellules d'observation Foncikre) would be
created inthe three regions o f Mandoul, Tandjile, and Logone Occidental to help create the sociological and
geographic data base on existing land tenure systems, to assist the government in the design o f the new
Land Tenure Code (Code Foncier) (French Cooperation is currently providing assistance for its
elaboration).

Cost and financing.:

IDA Grant will finance all subcomponents and the Government will add some resources for part o f the
capacity-building activities.

Project Component 4 US$8.31 million
                       -
Of which IDA Grant:US $4.9 million

Managementand informationsupport

Obiective

The management and information support component would support project coordination, evaluation, and
monitoring, through two subcomponents: (i)project management and (ii)program monitoring and
evaluation.

Subcomponent4.1.: Support toproject management Day-to-day management o f project activities would
be assigned to a Project Management Unit (PMU) with members recruited by the Ministry o f Land
Management, Urbanism, and Habitat and located in N'Djamena. It would consist of a small team
comprising a coordinator proficient   inmanaging development projects, a technical team (capacity building
specialist, monitoring and evaluation specialist, environmental and social specialist, communication
specialist, decentralization specialist), and an operational team (administrative and financial specialist,
accountant, procurement specialist). The PMU's responsibilities would be to (i)coordinate overall
implementation of the project, (ii)manage project activities implemented at the central level, (iii) the
                                                                                                  ensure
availability of funds, (iv) maintain the books and the accounts o f project activities and produce financial
reports, (v) monitor and evaluate implementation o f the work program and its impact, (vi) report results to
stakeholders (administration, donors, civil society, projects, Decision Committees), and (vii) provide
technical assistance to LPMUs. The P M U would work closely with ASPOP's National Project
Coordination and Management Unit (NPCMU). Most of the activities would be subcontracted by the
LPMU inaccordance with PROADELprocurement arrangements. Household energy activities would be
single source contracted and the Agence pour 1'Energie Domestique et 1'Environnement (AEDE) would be
a good candidate, since it has been successfully implementing the World Bank Household Energy Project in
Chad.

Three LPMUs would be responsible for coordinating project activities within their territories. There would
be three LPMUs during the first phase, established in the same cities as ASPOP's Inter-Regional Project
Coordination and Management Units and possibly in the same building, to improve communication and
coordination. Each L P M U would comprise an administrator, an environmental and social specialist, a


                                                    - 48 -

monitoring and evaluation specialist, a procurement specialist, and an accountant. Instead o f being
directive, they would concentrate their efforts on support activities to local communities through regular
consultation with local stakeholders. The LPMUs would be responsible for (i)carrying out
capacity-building activities at the local level, (ii)   managing the funds to finance the subprojects, (iii)
monitoring and evaluating project activities in their territories, and (iv) reporting to local stakeholders and
to the PMU.

The project would finance (i)technical advisory services and training to strengthen PROADEL's
management entities (procurement, financial management, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation), (ii)
the rehabilitation or construction o f their office space, (iii)equipment and vehicles, and (iv) financial and
technical audits.

Subcomponent 4.2.: Support to the project monitoring and evaluation. The project monitoring and
evaluation subcomponent is designed to (i) sound management o f the project through daily technical
                                               ensure
and financial monitoring o f its activities; (ii)enforce strategic, technical, and operational links between the
project and sector strategies, other development programs andprojects, and more generally all stakeholders
(inparticularthebeneficiaries);   and (iii) management o f all the information generated and usedby
                                            optimize
the different project management entities. Stakeholders at every level would be involved in gathering,
processing, analyzing, storing, and disseminating the information required for transparent and efficient
decisionmaking, as well as for sound financial and technical monitoring o f activities. The subcomponent
would rely on (i)   a monitoring and evaluation system to follow financial and technical activities and (ii)   a
knowledge management system for decisionmakers.

a. The Monitoring and Evaluation System

The monitoring and evaluation system o f the project would be critical for managing the large volume o f
information in subproject cycle, monitoring the LPMU and communities' performance, and aggregating
information for evaluating the impact o f the project. The management information system would be
constructed with three modules. LPMUs would use a lighter version o f the system containing all the
information needed from the PMU. LPMUs would gather information from beneficiaries and stakeholders
at the local level while ensuring continuous diffusion o f lessons learned and best practices among
beneficiaries, to help make participatory evaluation and steering o f the project effective. The database
would be synchronized each monthbetween the departmental and central levels.

Accounting andfinancial monitoring. A consulting firm specializing infinancial and accounting systems is
being recruited to (i)  finalize the project's financial and administrative procedures (personnel and goods
management, accounting, and disbursement), (ii)        develop the software and install it in the PMU and
LPMUs, (iii)   train the staff, and (iv) provide the P M U with technical assistance for six months. Reports in
accordance with the Financial Management Report format would be prepared three times a year. Once a
year, an audit o f the P M U and the LPMUs and a survey o f a statistically representative number o f
beneficiaries would take place.

Activities monitoring and evaluation. A system is being developed to monitor and evaluate the
performances and the impact o f the project. This monitoring and evaluation system would provide
information to (i)determine clear and realistic objectives for each activity, (ii)          measure gaps with
previsions and thus identify the problems linked to the activities realization, (iii)      propose options and
arrangements to address those issues, and (iv) better inform the stakeholders with periodic reports (terms o f
reference of stakeholders, activities advancement and problems encountered, chronogram o f activities with
responsibilities, financial status o f the project, value o f key impact and performance indicators, value o f

                                                      - 49 -

trigger indicators). The establishment o f reports and control boards would imply interaction with the
accounting and financial system to compare financial disbursement and commitment with physical
advancement. Furthermore, monitoring and evaluation o f the activities financed under the first component
(subprojects) would benefit from specific tools and procedures. Once a year, a census would be conducted
on a statistically representative sample o f beneficiaries to assess the impact o f the project, A study would
be conducted at the beginning of the project implementation to maximize synergies among programs and
institutions in Chad regarding monitoring o f poverty and local community development, especially to
ensure operational links with PRSP monitoring and the rural sector monitoring and evaluation system. Data
fromthose surveys and monitoring systems would be usedfor the project impact evaluation.

Development operations and process monitoring. This module would be based on a Geographical
Information System that would help monitor: (i)existing or planned infrastructures, services, and
development operations in the concerned departments, (ii)       sector policies, and (iii) progression of the
                                                                                           the
geographical scope o f the project according to various phases pre-established (ranging from "nothing
happened" to "community fully empowered, with a strong involvement o f local governments"). This tool
would be used to update the Departmental Development Frameworks. This Geographical Information
System would use scanned maps from CNAR archives or satellite-rectified photographs as background to
display the following layers:

- Existing or planned infrastructures: schools, health centers, water wells, markets, slaughterhouses and
veterinary services, drainage facilities, socioeducational animation centers, roads, village stores, village
tenitory with natural wood resource management, newly established wood plantations or otherwise
reforested areas.

- Development operations mder m y far which are to be specified: objectives, sectors and themes, budget,
effectiveness and closing dates, financing sources, and contacts.

- Geographic scope of the program evaluating the progress accomplished along a pre-defined process scale
for a given area. National strategies and policies for poverty reduction, rural development, water
management, health, education, transport, and urbanism would also be monitored with this module, but
without geographical interface. This system, to be successfully implemented and used, would possess
numerous links with other monitoring systems (sector monitoring or development programs monitoring)
and especially with the ones linked to rural sector monitoring.

b. Beneficiaries assessments

Lightbeneficiairies assessments would be conducted yearly and a more complete one at the end o f the first
phase. The PROADELwould also continually look at participatory appraisal reports showing community
satisfaction with PROADEL and subproject implementation. Global impact information would come from
the Poverty Monitoring System, and the ECOSIT family income survey to be completed by the middle of
2003 would bring the baseline.

c. Knowledge management inthe uroiect

The local dimension of the project highlights the necessity o f sound knowledge management procedures
during implementation. This activity would ensure efficient information circulation between the different
stakeholders involved inthe project. By "information" one must understand every single hard or electronic
copy o f (i)accounting and financial reports, (ii)   technical status reports and all related documents (such as
financing request forms), (iii) contacts list, (iv) communication supports (such as brochures and flyers), (v)

                                                       - 50 -

Departmental Development Framework (see Development Operations and Process monitoring), and (vi)
technical support documents and publications (such as books, studies, and maps). This activity includes the
elaboration and maintenance o f a Web site that would include various functionalities depending on the
targeted audience:


(a)   General public: with an overview o f the rural sector in Chad and a presentation o f the project and its
performances.

(b)   Project financial partners: technical and financial status reports would be available, with a direct link
to project performance and impact
indicators.

(c)   Project technical partners: this part would provide experience-sharing tools for international and
national experts interested in the technical aspects o f the project. It would contain: (i)     a repertory o f
technical documents by sectors (strategies, studies), (ii)    a chat room, and (iii) calendar of project
                                                                                       a
implementation events (studies launching, planning and validation workshops, etc.). This last part can be
used to improve project activity procurement.

The following matrix presents the three modules o f the Monitoringand Evaluation system:

                             Accounting and                Activities monitoring and    Development operations
                          financial monitoring                      evaluation          and process monitoring
  Systems operators      Central level: (i)financial           Central level:                 Central level:
                         and administrative                   monitoring-evaluation       monitoring-evaluation
                         specialist, (ii)
                                        accountant,           official                    official
                         and (iii)procurement
                         specialist

                         Departmental level: accountant
                         andprocurement specialist (one    1  Departmental level:

                         per department)                      monitoring-evaluation           Departmental level:
                                                              official (one per           monitoring-evaluation
                                                              department)                 official (one per department)
  Other stakeholders        Project beneficiaries             Project beneficiaries           Decision Committees
                            Steering Committee              0 Donors                          Other development
                            Donors                          0 Project participants            projects inChad
                                                                                              PRS unit
   Type of managed        Financial and accounting
   data                   data:

                            Disbursement                    0  Activity advancement          Project advancement in
                            Commitments                                                      terms o f spatial coverage
                            Budget                          b  Performance and impact        (progressbetween the
                                                               indicators evolution          different communities
                                                                                             development phases).
                                                            0  Triggers indicators
                                                               evolution
                                                                                            Development operations
                                                                                            under way and
                                                                                            complementary to the
                                                                                            program (including
                                                                                            program-planned activities).



                                                    - 51 -

              Contract monitoring:

                                                                            Basic existing
               Contract                                                   I
                                                                           infrastructures (including
               Procurement                                                 those o f the project).


              Human Resources
              management:

               Project staff evaluation                                      Sector policies
 Reports       Quarterly financial             Monthly reports             Departmental Development
               management report               presenting the              Framework (once every two
                                               participants Terms o f      years),
                                               References.
                                                                            Quarterly reports presenting
                                               Quarterly reports            the progress o f the Program
                                               presenting activities        spatial coverage
                                               advancement.

                                               Bi-annual report
                                               presenting a complete
                                               stocktakingon the
                                               Program
'rocedures     Three Special Accounts (one     Annual planning              Departmental data
               for subprojects financing).                                  integration to the GIS for
                                                                            any new department.

                                                                            Annual update o f the
               Simple procedures for          0Technical advancement        system after meeting with
               replenishment between P M U     review after each paymer     other projects and
               and LPMU.                                                    institutions.



               Direct contracting between      Participatory evaluation      Systematic integration of
               beneficiaries and providers.    once a year at the same      PROADEL realization to
                                               time as a poverty survey     the system
                                              on a statistical sample.
               Financial monitoring            Monitoring and              e GIS
               software adapted to the         evaluation tool adaptedtc
               program specificities           the program specificities
                                               and with a special modul
                                               for subprojects
                                               monitoring.

                                               Control boards to monito
                                               global and triggers
                                               indicators.


                                        - 52 -

Cost and financing:

IDA Grant will partiallyfinance all subcomponents and the Government will especially contribute to
operatingcosts.




                                           - 53 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                            CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project




Capacity Buildingfor local development stakeholders                                                15.22                    3.38                   18.60
Support to the Decentralization Process                                                             3.64                    1.20                    4.84
Management and Information Support                                                                  5.95                    1.go                     7.85
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                38.76                    6.48                  45.24
PhysicalContingencies                                                                               0.00                    0.00                     0.00
Price Contingencies-                                                                                0.76                    0.00                     0.76
                                           Total Project CostsI                                    39.52                    6.48                  46.00
                                  Total Financing Required                                         39.52                    6.48                  46.00




Civil works for offices rehabilitation or Construction                                                0.68                      0.00                     0.68
Vehicles, Equipment and Materials                                                                      1.04                      1.39                    2.43
Services, Audits and Studies                                                                         17.68                      4.31                   21.99
Training                                                                                               1.35                     0.00                      1.35
Grants for sub-projects                                                                              13.95                      0.00                    13.95
Operating Costs                                                                                       4.04                       0.00                    4.04
PPF                                                                                                    0.78                      0.78                     1.56
                                                          Total Project Costs1                       39.52                       6.48                   46.00
                                                 Total Financing Required                            39.52                       6.48                   46.00

  1Ideiitifiable taxes and duties are 2.8 (US$m)and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 43.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratlo is 53.24?6 of'
  total project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                      - 54   -

                                                    Annex 4
                     CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project

This project is not suitable for global cost-benefit analysis because its activities produce benefits that either
are difficult to quantify in economic terms (capacity building, govemance, living conditions) or are not
predefined (because of the program's demand-driven approach). Nevertheless, specific guidelines would be
integrated into the operations manual to ensure that (i)       projects that do lend themselves to economic
evaluation are evaluated and (ii)selection criteria are defined to preclude uneconomical projects from
eligibility. A major criterion o f evaluation would be'analysis o f least-cost altematives for project-financed
activities, comparing the cost o f similar activities financed by other sources.




                                                        - 55 -

                               Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                    CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project
                                     Years Ending


                                               IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                       I Year1  I  year2   I Year3   I year4  I  Year5   1 Year6  I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  Investment Costs          8.3        8.1       11.5     14.0       0.0       0.0     0.0
 Recurrent Costs            0.8        1.o        1.1      1.2       0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Project Costs         9.1        9.1       12.6     15.2       0.0       0.0     0.0
Total Financing             9.1        9.1       12.6     15.2       0.0       0.0     0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                 4.6        4.0        6.4      8.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
   Government               3.5        4.0        4.0      4.5       0.0      0.0       0.0
       Central              0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
       Provincial           0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers            0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Beneficiaries               0.2        0.2        0.4      0.7       0.0      0.0       0.0
AFD                         0.8        0.9        1.8      2.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     9.1        9.1       12.6     15:2       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:




                                          - 56 -

                      Annex 6: Procurement and DisbursementArrangements
                       CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project

Procurement

GENERAL

Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) for Chad was carried out in 1993, showing that
procurement procedures in Chad do not conflict with Bank Guidelines. N o special exceptions, permits, or
licenses need to be specified inthe Financing documents for Intemational Competitive Bidding(ICB),       since
Chad's Public Procurement Code (Decree 859/PR/SGG/90) allows Intemational Development Association
(IDA) procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. A new CPAR was
carried out in May, 2000. It focused on the Government's capacity to manage public resources and on the
impact o f the recent fiscal reform on procurement. Based on the work prepared by a fiscal expert, the
Government has adopted in July 2000 new Instructions to Bidders (Guide aux Soumissionnaires) which
clarifies the fiscal issue ina satisfactory way.

Guidelines

Goods and works financed by IDA shall be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004 (The Procurement Guidelines) and Bank Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD), and Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) advertised locally would be carried out in accordance with Chad's procurement laws and
regulations, acceptable to IDA provided that they assure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad
consistency with key objectives o f the Bank Guidelines. In the absence o f national standard bidding
documents, the Bank's SBD with appropriate modifications inrelationto provisions relatingto "advertising
and notification", "currencies o f bid and payment", "settlement o f disputes", and deletion of the domestic
preference provision, etc will be used for NCB. It should ensure that: (i)
                                                                         methods used inevaluation o f bids
and the award o f contracts are made known to all bidders and not be applied arbitrarily; (ii) bidder is
                                                                                                 any
given adequate response ! h e (four weeks) for preparation and submission o f bids; (iii)  bid evaluation and
bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to
domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible f m s are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to
the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent methods; (vii) bid
evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons to reject any non-responsive bid; (viii) prior to issuing the
first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as annexes to the Procedures Manual would
be submitted to IDA for review.

Consultant services contracts financed by IDA grant will be procured inaccordance with Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection andEmployment o f Consultants by World BankBorrowers dated May 2004
(The Consultant Guidelines). The Standard Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used
for appointment o f Consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, that is those
not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants.

Procurement activities carried out for small works, goods and services for community-based micro-projects
financed by the matching grant would be carried out in accordance with paragraph 3.15 o f the Guidelines
(Community Participation inProcurement) and with the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the Project ImplementationManual
(PIM). These would be described ina specific chapter o f the PIM.


                                                    - 57 -

Advertising

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be preparedand published inthe UnitedNations Development
Business following Board Approval, to advertise for major consulting assignments and any ICB.
Publication o f a GPN inthe national press or official gazette will be carried out for NCB. The GPN shall
be prepared before negotiations and published after board approval. It shall include all contracts under ICB
and all large consulting contracts (i.e estimated to cost $100,000 or more). The GPN will be updated on a
yearly basis and will show all outstanding International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for works and goods
contracts and all international consulting services. In addition, a specific procurement notice (SPN) is
required for all goods and works to be procured under ICB and Expression Of Interest (EOI) for all
consulting services costing US$ 100,000 equivalent or more.

ProcurementCapacity Assessment

A procurement capacity assessment was carried out slightly before the appraisal mission.        It was found
that for the first months of project preparation procurement activities were carried out by the project
preparation team which had some experience inprocurement management from their experience in other
projects such as the FACIL. However, there was not a person entirely in charge o f procurement
responsibilities. Therefore, the recommendations made in the action plan to solve this problem and the
possible risks linkedto it include: (i)the hiringofa Procurement Specialist at the PMU, (ii) preparation
                                                                                              the
of a procurement plan for the first 18 months o f project implementation and a regular annual updating o f
such plan to reduce the risk o f the extension o f project duration, (iii)
                                                                        the establishment o f a procurement
planning and contract management system integrated inthe computerized Financial management system to
be installed at the central project coordination unit (PMU) and regional units (LPMUs) in order to ensure
the follow-up o f contracts funds disbursement and aggregate amounts, (iv) providing procurement training
workshops at the Regional procurement centers in the region (that is Dakar, Senegal); (v) providing
technical assistance through short-term consultants as necessary, (vi) annual technical and financial audits
specific to procurement and (vii) a clear development o f procurement rules and methods in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM).

Schedule of actions to be carriedout

            Actions to be undertaken                       Dates                  ResnonsibleInstitution
   1. Hiring o f a Procurement Specialist at the       Completed                 Government of Chad
  PMU.
  2. Preparation o f a procurement planfor the first   Completed               !NIP-PROADEL
  18 months o f project implementation and a
  regular annual updating o f such plan to reduce
  theriskofthe extensiono fproject duration.
  3. Establishment of a procurement planning           December 2004             ENIP-PROADEL
  and contract management system integrated in                                   and Consultants incharge o f
  the    computerized     Financial   management                                 the   installation  o f   the
  system to be installed at the central project                                  SIG-PRO
  coordination unit (PMU) and regional units
  (LPMUs) in order to ensure the follow-up o f
  contracts funds disbursement and aggregate
  amounts.



                                                    - 58 -

  4. Participation in procurement           training   As needed                Central Project Coordination
  workshops      at the    Regional procurement        duringproject's          unit(PMU)
  centers inthe region (that is Dakar, Senegal).       life
  5.     Short-term    technical    assistance    in   As needed                Central                Project
  procurement by consultants as necessary              duringproject's          CoordinationUnit(PMU)
                                                       life
  6. Annual technical and financial audits specific At least twice a year       World Bank teams and
  to procurement                                       duringproject's life     external Auditors
  7. Clear development o f procurement rules and       Completed                 ENIP-PRO ADEL
  methods inthe Project Implementation Manual                                    and Consultants incharge o f
  (PIM)                                                                          the P I M



ProcurementImplementationArrangements

At the national level, the bulk o f procurement for vehicles, equipment, construction or rehabilitation works
for offices, consulting services, studies and training would be managed by the PMU through the
Procurement Specialist it will be staffed with. He will be in charge o f the preparation o f all the bidding
documents (ICB, NCB and local shopping), the requests for proposals, their submission to IDA for no
objection before their publication. The Procurement Specialist in collaboration with the other senior
members o f the P M U will make the evaluation o f the bids and the proposals and seek the no objection o f
ICA before making any awzrd for contiacts mt gcjvemed by the Natioilal Tender Board (Commission
Nationale des MarchCs Publics). For contracts governed by the National Tender Board, the current
legislation will apply, provided that it is not in contradiction with the DFA. The P M U would use
consultants as necessary to carry out specific tasks in procurement. At the local level, each o f the three
LPMUs of the PROADEL will be staffed with a Procurement Specialist. They will be mainly in charge o f
the training of the communities inCommunity-Based Procurement. They will assist them inthe preparation
of bidding documents and evaluation of bids when necessary. But this intervention is expected to be very
few since the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) will develop a section entirely dedicated to
Community-Based Procurement with all the necessary elements. The recruitment o f all positions in the
P M U and the LPMUs should be acceptable to IDA prior to project implementation and during the life o f
the project.

Documents relatedto procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the Recipient
for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. The P M U would be required to prepare a
computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed uponwould not be exceeded during
the life o fproject implementation.

ProcurementMethods

CivilWorks

There won't be any major civil     wains  contract under the project. There will only be small works for the
rehabilitation or construction o f the Project Coordination Unit's (PMU) office, the 3 LPMUoffices and the
MinistryofDecentralizationto be financed by IDA andwhich are estimatedto cost US$0.6million intotal.



                                                     - 59 -

Each contract for rehabilitation or construction estimated to cost less than US$500,000 will be procured
through N C B inaccordance with national procedures acceptable to IDA.

The remaining works consist o f small works to be carried out through community-based micro-projects.
Given the size, amount and demand-driven nature o f community-based works, these contracts would be
governed when applicable by the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-Based Investments (February 1998) and the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). As part o f
grants for community-based micro-projects, small works will mostly be works relating to small community
social infrastructures such as classrooms, rural health houses, youth facilities, community meeting
facilities, etc. These small works are estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or less per contract. They may be
procured under lump-sum, futed-price contracts awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description
o f the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f agreement
acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors
who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

Goods

Goods. Procurement o f computers equipment, office equipment, materials and h i t u r e , locally available
at economical price and costing less than US$250,000 per contract will follow NCB procedures acceptable
to IDA. Procurement o f vehicles, motorcycles and equipment costing US$250,000 or more per contract
would be carried through ICB. Goods that cannot be grouped into bidpackages o f US$50,000 or more may
be procured through national shopping according to procedures acceptable to IDA, or through the UNDP
Inter-Agency Prcsurement Senices Office (IP-PSO). The Recipient wo~!dmwdthe Contract, on the h s i s
of written solicitation issued to at least three qualified suppliers, following evaluation o f bids received in
writing from such qualified suppliers. The award would be made to the supplier with the lowest price
quotation for the required goods, provided he still has the experience and resources to execute the contract
successfully.

IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of US$ 250,000                  equivalent for
Goods and US$500,000 for works and the first three contracts for Works and the f r s t three contracts for
Goods, awarded under National Competitive Bidding, will be subject to IDA'Sprior review procedures in
accordance to Appendix 1 o f the Guidelines.

Community-BasedProcurement.The project will finance community-based subprojects which in total is
estimated at $13.95 million equivalent of which IDA will fmance $10.12 million. The subprojects will
comprise things such as small and social infrastructures, classrooms, rural health houses, IEC-related
activities and materials, minor repairs or works, capacity building etc. These subprojects are estimated to
cost US$50,000 or less per contract. Fundingfor these activities will be inthe form o f grants. Communities
will be required to contribute on agreed percentage o f the total budget in labor, kind or incash (see Project
Implementation Manual for details).

Financing will depend on applications received from communities against a negative list o f activities. It is
not possible to determine the exact mix o f goods, small works, and services to be procured under these
activities due to their demand-driven nature. Therefore, the types o f activities to be financed and their
procurement details will depend on the needs identified by the communities. Procurement o f items for the
implementation o f subprojects would be carried out inaccordance with simplified procurement procedures
referred to the Project ImplementationManual. The manual will contain a special chapter describing the


                                                    - 60 -

procedures and tools in accordance with those found in the Bank's Guidelinesfor SimplGed Procurement
and Disbursementfor Community-BasedInvestments (February 1998).

The P M U and the LPMUs will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines, and ex-post
reviews o f random subprojects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent technical audits.


Consultants Services, Audits and Studies

Consulting Services, studies, and training financed by IDA would be for (i)specialized studies,
supervision,   project implementation and monitoring, Management Information System,                     financial
management support, financial audits; and (ii)    consultancies on technical matters and training--skills gap
analysis and skills development (participatory approaches), capacity buildingfor community development,
empowerment and organization, and IEC campaigns. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$ 6.60
million, would be hired in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment o f
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated M a y 2004 (The Consultant Guidelines).

Ouality-and-Cost-based Selection (OCBS):            All consulting service contracts costing US$100,000
equivalent or more for firms would be awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification o f suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists
for contracts estimated at or less than US$50,000 equivalent may be comprised entirely o f national
consultants (in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines), provided
that a sufficient number o f qualified individual or f m s (at least three) are available. However, if foreign
f m s have expressed interest, they would not be excluded from consideration.The Project Implementation
Urd would ensue widely publicized expression of interest to get candidacy from consultants. Eased on
agreed upon criteria, the Project ImplementationUnit will maintain and update a list o f consultants which
will be used to establish short-lists.

Least Cost Selection (LCS) would also apply. For financial and technical audits, estimated to cost less than
US$100,000, the selection would be made on the basis o f Least Cost Selection (LCS).

Selection Based on consultants Oualifications (CO): Consultants for small studies, engineering designs and
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and short term assignments, costing less than US$lOO,OOO, would
be selected through the Selection Based on consultants Qualifications method.

Individual Consultants: Consultants for project implementation, and assignments in sectors such as
agriculture, economics, sociology, land tenure and other types o f short term appointment which can be
delivered by individuals, costing less than US$50,000, would be selected through comparison o f
qualifications among individual consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment or approached
directly.

Single Source Selection: The Government has expressed the view that household energy activities (which
are included in sub-component 2.2 o f the project, see Annex 2 o f the PAD) should be implementedby the
"Agence pour 1'Energie Domestique et 1'Environnement" (AEDE). To support its request, the Government
presented the following arguments: (i)    AEDE was constituted inthe form o f an NGO by the Government.
It was created as an automous entity and has no legal, financial, operational or administrative relations with
the Government; (ii) start up cost were fmanced by the Government under a Bank financed project; (iii)
                      its
AEDE was created to overcome the fact that there is no NGO or other f m s of experts in the field of
community work that maintain a long term presence in Chad; (iv) AEDE has shown its capacity to make


                                                     - 61 -

things happenandits leadership. Ithada major contribution inthe achievement o fthe objectives ofthe

Household Energy program. (v) Household energy activities o f this project are the logical continuation o f
the work done under the Household Energy Project. The Bank has indicated that it would favorably
consider the Government's request to sole sourcing the implementation o f these activities. Government
made a formal request to this effect before the end o f negotiations.

Trainings. Workshom Seminars and Conferences. The total cost o f these activities is estimated at
US$1.35 million o f which IDA will finance US$0.68 million equivalent. Training, workshops, seminars
and conferences attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis o f approved annual programs
that will identify the general framework o f training and similar activities for the year, including the nature
o f traininghtudytours/workshops, the number ofparticipants, and cost estimates.

IDA Reviews. Bank Staff will review the selection process for the hiringof consultants proposed by the
Recipient in accordance with Appendix 1 o f the Guidelines for Consultants. All consulting contracts
costing US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for firms and all contracts for audits regardless their estimated cost
and all individual consulting contract estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more would be
subject to IDA prior review. All other contracts would be subject to post review in accordance with
paragraph 4 Appendix Io f the Guidelines. Any amendments to existing contracts raising their values to
levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds are subject to IDA review.

All terms of reference o f consultants would be subject to IDA prior review. Other procurement subject to
IDA review would include: annual training plans for local and overseas training and workshops, including
terms o f reference and estimated budgets. All out o f country training will be subject to IDA approval.

Modification or waiver o f the scope and conditions o f contracts. Before agreeing to any material extension,
or any modification or waiver o f the conditions o f contracts that would increase aggregate cost by more
than 15% o f the original price, the Recipient should specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA'Sprior
no-objection for the proposed modification.

Project ImplementationManual (PIM). The PIM was already produced and has been revised to take into
account the different comments. It defines the project's intemal organization, its implementationprocedures
and includes: (i) the procedures for calling for bids, selecting consultants, and awarding contracts; (ii)  the
procedures and sample o f contracts for community-based procurement; (iii)        the intemal organization for
supervision and control, including operational guidelines defining the role o f the executing agency and
reporting requirements and (iv) the disbursement procedures. The Implementation Manual was examined
duringnegotiations. The finalized version has been adopted by the Government and deemed acceptable to
IDA.

Duringnegotiations, the Government submitted to IDA for review: (a) a draft procurement planfor the first
18 months o f the project ;(b) the Project Implementation Manual; (c) the standard biddingdocuments to be
used for NCB procedures for Goods and works; and (d) a training program for the PMU and the LPMUs.
The Government also gave assurance that the P M U would: (a) use the Implementation Manual; (b) use the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection o f
consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews
with IDA and other donors, to compare target times and actual completion, andtransmit it to IDA, during
implementation, with all procurement-related documents; and (e) carry out, during annual reviews, an
assessment o f the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's


                                                    - 62 -

procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any modification to the
current procedures to the extent that would accelerateprocurement, while still maintaining compliance with
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards and payments.

The Government also gave assurance at negotiations that it would take the necessary measure to ensure
that procurement phases do not exceedthe following target time periods:



           Procurement Phases                         Maximum number of weeks
      Preparation o fbidding documents                  4 (6 for large contracts)
        Preparation of bidsby bidders                       4 (6-10 for ICB)
               Bidevaluation                             2 (4 for large contracts)
I          Signature o f Contracts           I                       2                      I
                 Payments                                            3

Procurement methods (Table A)

                            Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                               (US$ million equivalent)




                                                             Procurement        Method'
       ExpenditureCategory                     ICB               NCB               Other2            N.B.F.         Total
                                                                                                                     cost
1.Works                                        0.00              0.68                0.00             0.00           0.68
                                              (0.00)            (0.50)             (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.50)
2. Goods                                       1.52               1.07               0.07             0.00           2.66
                                              (1.44)            (1.OO)              (0.06)            (0.00)        (2.50)
3. Services,Audits and Studies                 0.00              0.00                14.66             7.16         21.82
                                              (0.00)             (0.00)             (6.60)            (0.00)        (6.60)
4. Training                                    0.00              0.00                0.70              0.65          1.35
                                              (0.00)            (0.00)              (0.68)            (0.00)        (0.68)
5. MatchingGrants for                          0.00               0.00               11.28             2.67         13.95
micro-projects                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (10.12)            (0.00)       (10.12)
6. OperatingCosts                              0.00              0.00                1.6G              2.44          4.04
                                              (0.00)             (0.00)             (1-25)            (0.00)        (1.25)
7. PPF                                         0.00               0.00               1.50          0.00              1so
                                              (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.20)       (0.00)             (1.20)
   Total                                       1.52               1.75               29.81             12.92        46-00
                                              (1.44)             (1S O )           (20.16)            (0.00)        (23.00)
                                                                                                                         ~~~    ~




I/       Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include
         contingencies.
2i       Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
         contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, matching grants
         for subprojects and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii)re-lending
         project funds to local government units.




                                                    - 64 -

                   Table AI: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                      (US$ million equivalent)




I\Includingcontingencies

         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
              QBS = Quality-based Selection
              SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
              LCS = Least-Cost Selection
              CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
              Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
              Commercial Practices, etc.
              N..B.F. = Not Bank-financed
              Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.




                                                - 65 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review       '


                                                                                     Contracts Subject to
                                                              Procurement                Prior Review
                                                                Method                   (US$ millions)
1.Works                         less than $500,000               NCB                      Post Review
Rehabilitation or                                                                   (except first 3 contracts),
construction                                                                        amount: US$0.6 million


Small works for
micro-projects                   $100,000 or less            Community-Based              PostReview
                                                              Procurement           (except first 3 contracts),
                                                                                    amount: US$0.3million
2. Goods                         $250,000 or more                 ICB                     Prior review
                                                                                   (amount: US$1.52 million)

                                 Below $250,000                  NCB                      PostReview
                                                                                    (except first 3 contracts),
                                                                                    amount: US$1.07 million


                                Less than $50,000               Shopping                  Post Review
3. Services                      $iOO,OOG or more                QCBS              Prior Review (>=iOO,OOO)
Consulting firms                                                                    amount: US$2.86 million
                                                                                    Post Review (<100,000)

                                Less than$100,000                  CQ                     PostReview
                                                                                      (TORSprior review)
4. Financial and                Less than $100.000                LCS                     Prior Review
Technical Audits
5. Individual                    $50,000 or more                 3 cvs                    Prior Review
Consultants                        or sole source                                  (amount: US$l.14 million

                                 Less than $50,000                                        Post Review

                           Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     US$7.49million

                                Overall Procurement Risk Assessment

                                                 Average

Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissions proposed: Oneeveiy 6 months(includes special
procurement supervisionfor post-reviewlaudits)


'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
 Documentation"and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.

Disbursement

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
A computerized accounting and integrated financial management system will be set up and assessed by
IDA as a condition of effectiveness.       The system will allow inputs at different levels to capture all
disbursements that will be effected under the project.

(a) Statement o f Expenditures: Disbursements for all expenditures should be against full documentation
except for items o f expenditures under contracts o f less than: (a) $500,000 for civil works; (b) $250,000
for goods; (c) $100,000 for consultant services contracts for firms; (d) $50,000 for consultant services
contracts for individuals as well as (e) all training and operating costs, which will be claimed o n the basis
o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs).      All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained at the
PMU and will be readily accessible for review by periodic Bank supervision missions and extemal
auditors;

Inthe case ofLocalDevelopment Fundgrants, there willbe pre-financing ofexpenditures, as communities
are unlikely to start contracting without the assurance of finds. All disbursements against expenditures
under the Local Development Fundwill be subject to expost financial and physical audits, on a sample
basis, to be carriedout by auditors employed by the project.

(b) Special Accounts, Second Generation Special Accounts and 90-Dav Advance: To facilitate the project
implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, the Government will open two Special
Accounts (SA) in CFAF in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The first
Special Account (SA-A) will be used exclusively to finance all the subprojects in form o f Grants, the
second Special Account (SA-E), will be used to finance activities such 2s civil works, the procurement o f
goods and vehicles, consultant services and audits, training, and project operating costs. The authorized
allocation for SA-A will be CFAF 505 million and will cover about four months o f eligible expenditures.
The authorized allocation for SA-B will be CFAF 640 million and will also cover about four months o f
eligible expenditures. Upon Grant effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount o f CFAF 505 million in
SA-A, representing the total allocation for that account, and CFAF 320 million in SA-B, representing
approximately 50 per cent of the authorized allocation o f this Special Account. The remaining balance will
be made available when the total commitments issued amount to the equivalent o f USD 5 million. The
Special Accounts will be used for all payments in an amount below 20% o f the initial deposit to the
Special Account. Replenishment applications will be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA into
Special Accounts will be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents,

In addition to the Special Account A (SA-A), the Government will open three (3) Second Generation
Special Accounts in the regions where the project will be implemented, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. The project shall withdraw from the main Special Account and deposit an
amount not to exceed FCFA 100 million into each Second Generation Special Account. These funds will
be used exclusively to finance the subprojects proposed by the communities.

The Government will also open three (3) 90-Day Advance Accounts related to Special Account B (SA-B)
in the regions where the project will be implemented, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. The project shall withdraw from the main Special Account and deposit an amount not to
exceed CFAF 30 million into each 90-Day Advance Account, These funds will be used exclusively to
finance activities linked to decentralization, monitoring and evaluation, and project management costs at
the LPMUs' level.



                                                     - 67 -

Flow of funds

Resources needed for financing o f program activities will flow from (i)  the Grant Account for Direct
Payments to be made by IDA to suppliers, (ii)    the Special Accounts A and B, the Second Generation
Special Accounts and the 90-Day Advance Accounts (all maintained in commercial banks acceptable to
IDA) for activities to be financed by IDA and (iii) Project Account for the counterpart funds. The
                                                      the
project Financial Management Specialist (FMS) and the Accountants will be in charge o f the financial
management o f the project. The project Coordinator and the project Financial Management Specialist will
countersign all the checks for the payments to be made under the Special Accounts A and B. In case o f
absence of the FMS, the project Coordinator and the Central Accountant (the Accountant o f the PMU),
will countersign all the checks for payments to be made on Special Accounts A and B. The Regional
Coordinators o f the project in the LPMUs and the Regional Accountants will countersign the checks for
the payments to be made under the Second Generation Special Accounts and the 90-Day Advance
Accounts, Under the supervision o f the project Financial Management Specialist, the project Accountants
(one inNdjamena and 3 inthe Regions) will prepare all the supporting documents for the replenishment o f
the Special Accounts to be submittedto IDA through the Ministry o f Planning. The Project Account will
receive counterpart funds incompliance with the terms o f the DGA.


                      Table C: Allocation of Development Grant Proceeds


         Expenditure Category             Grant Amount in               Financing Percentage
                                              US$miIlion
      Civil works                                  0.50            . i00% offoreign expenditures
                                                                       82% o f local expenditures
      Vehicles and Equipments                       2.50              100%o f foreign expenditures
                                                                        82% o f local expenditures
      Consultant Services, Audits and               4.90                          82%
      Studies                          I                            I                                I

      Trainings                                     0.68                          100%
      IGrants
      Grants for Sub-projects                       10.12               100% o f amount disbursed




      Unallocated                                   2.10




      /Total IDA Grant                 I            23.00           I                                I




                                                  - 68 -

FISANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS

An assessment was conducted for the ENIP-PROADELto: (a) determine ifit has acceptable procedures
of financial management in term o f intemal and external controls and of management o f financial
information; and (ii) make recommendations on how to minimize the fiduciary risks identified.

Accounting System, Accounting Policiesand Procedures

In order to alleviate the risks which are generic inthis type of projects, it was agreed that the following
actions would be taken:

(i)ProductionofanAdministrativeandAccounting andFinancial Management Manualacceptable to
IDA;

(ii)Establishmentofa computerized financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which would
provide the Recipient and IDA with accurate and timely informationregarding resources and expenditures.
The financial management systems would include budgetary accounting and financial reporting for
intemal control device and auditing elements. A financial management firm would be selected to assist in
the design and establishment o f the system for the PMU andthe LPMUs;

(iii)The PMU andthe LPMUs would be fully responsible for project administrative andtechnical
coordination as well as financial management. They will have a financial autonomy, thus they will be in
charge o f the preparation o f the withdrawal applications for Direct Payments, Replenishment o f Special
Accwmts, Second Generation Special Accounts and 90-Day A&.uce             Acc~illits,payment o f suippliers
from their respective accounts andtransfer o f funds to communities inorder to allow them to finance their
micro-projects; and

(iv) Staffing o f P M U and LPMUs with skilled personnel including a Coordinator, a Financial
Management Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, 4 Accountants and 4 Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialists. All these staff will be trained accordingly.

The systemto be put inplace.

The following devices will be put inplace:


0   A Steering Committee (Comitk d'orientation et de PiZotage,COP) composed o f different ministries
    involved inthe project implementation;

0   A Central Project CoordinationUnit (PMU) responsible for the day to day operations of the project,
    composed, among other staff, o f a coordinator, a procurement specialist, a financial management
    specialist, a monitoring and evaluation specialist and an accountant;

e   Three Inter-Regional Project CoordinationUnits (LPMUs) responsible for day to day operations at the
    decentralized level and will be composed, among other staff, o f an administrator, a monitoring &
    evaluation specialist, a procurement specialist and an accountant;

0   Capacity building activities in financial management to carry out to the benefit o f Communities
    (Community-Based Organizations or other local institutions) by NGOs or Private Sector Agencies;



                                                     - 69 -

     A manual o f administrative, financial and accounting procedures for PMU and LPMUs' use; it has to
     point out, among other procedures, financial management links in terms o f funds and information
     flows between PMU and LPMUs;
     A simplified financial management procedures manual for Community-Based Organizations (CBOs)
     and other local institutions ;

     The opening of 3 special accounts ina commercial bank inNdjamena to be managed by PMU;
     The opening of a project account inPublic Treasury inTchad or a Commercial Bank to be managed
     byPMU;
     The opening of three second generation special accounts and three 90-day advance accounts in
     commercial banks inthe three regions where the project will be implemented; these accounts will be
     managed by LPMUs;
     The opening of community accounts by CBOs or other local institutions in commercial banks or
     reliable micro-finance institutions;
     A computerized information and management system with a program of administrative, financial and
     accounting management with monitoring capabilities; it will be installed inside P M U and LPMUs and
     according to the new Bank integrated management system "FMR" adapted to the specific requirements
     o f the project;
     A recruitment o f a financial management specialist, a monitoring andevaluation specialist andan
     accountant, all PMUstaff;
     A selection o f an external auditor for ail the impleinenting actors of the project.


PROADEL will invest in an accounting and financial management system            .This system should be able to
perform the following major functions: joumal processing, budgeting, bank reconciliation, financial
reporting and control. PRAODEL will use a double-entry cash-based system to produce financial data on
the project components. This will be maintained on the information system discussed above. The form o f
reporting would be the FMRs described in the Administrative, Financial Management and Accounting
Procedures Manual.

Books of Registry

Inadditionto the computerized accounting system installed, and the books needed to maintain an accurate
and complete record of transactions, PROADEL will maintain a set o f additional books of registry, either
within its systemor outside it, for control purposes. These books include:

    A fixed Asset Register;
e   A Contracts Register;
e   Book o f control for document deliveries and controlled stationery such as checks and forms.

Budgeting

The project annual budget will have to be approved by the Committee.
Counterpart funds will have be inscribed in the Government annual budget and therefore,. budgeting for
project counterpart h d s will follow the Government budget cycle which is as follows:


                                                      - 70 -

    March:                 Ministry of Finance communicatesbudgetlimits to Ministries
0   From March :           Budgetpreparedandsubmittedto the MinistryofFinance
0   July.:                 Ministry o f Finance consolidatesbudget
0   September:             NationalBudgetapproved by the Cabinet
0   Oct -Dec:              National Assembly approvesthe budget
    December :        Approved amounts communicated to Ministries
0   January:               Firsthndsreleasedfor execution inthe new year.

FinancialReporting

Separate financial statements will be preparedfor the project. They will comprise: (i)statement o f source
                                                                                        a
and application of Funds for the project during the current financial year and cumulative since the start of
the project; and (ii)balance sheet. These two financial statementswill be preparedannually. Inaddition,
                      a
the project management unit will submit quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMRs) including
financial reports, physical progress reports and procurementkontracts reports, within 45 days of the end of
the reportingperiod.
The actual format and content of the FMRs will be agreed at negotiations and PROADEL is expected to
demonstrate its capacity to deal with the required FMRs. The PIU is expected to show, by project
effectiveness, its capacity to produce FMRs consolidating all project activities carried out by the different
implementing agencies.

Audit Arrangements

Financial Audit. The consolidated financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA inaccordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA.
Audit reports of reasonable scope and detail will be submitted to IDA within six months of the endof the
audited period. The auditor will provide an opinion on: (i)    the project financial statements (statement of
Source and Application o f Fundsand Balance Sheet); (ii)    the statement o f expenditures (SOE); and (iii)
                                                                                                          the
special accounts (SA), the secondgeneration special accounts andthe 90-day advance accounts,

The auditor will also issue a separate management report on internal and operational procedures outlining
any recommendations for improving internal accounting controls and operational procedures identifiedas a
result o f the financial statement audits.

Technical Audit. Contracts with beneficiaries, whose templates are appended to the PIM, refers to
micro-project technical audits. They are ordered and managed systematically or randomly by the P M U or
the LPMUs. For this purpose, the Project can hire f m s .

Monitoring and Supervision

Project monitoring will take the following forms:

0   Monthly and quarterly and half-yearly monitoring reports;
0   Annual extemal audit o f the Project




                                                    - 71 -

Supervision will be carried out by the Project FinancialManagement Specialist (FMS) at least twice a year
but also before effectiveness and all along the implementation period. Half- yearly reports and also annual
audits and Management letters from the external auditors will be reviewed by the FMS. Close supervision
will also be performed by the field-based FMS, to ensure that the PIU hancial management system is
operating adequately and that PROADEL financial management system is progressing at the expected
pace.

Staffing and Training

The soon to be recruited staff o f the P M U includes the Coordinator andthe DAF o f PMUwho will oversee
all accounting and financial management duties both. He will be assisted by a Chief Accountant and a
Procurement Specialist.
Each one o f the other implementing agencies at the Departmental level (LPMU) will have an experienced
and competent financial officer to keep the financial records and report to PMUo n monthly, quarterly and
annual basis. The recruitment of PMUstaff will be made inaccordance with the Project pace.

Training Plan

The Financial Management staff will attend workshops and training sessions on the new financial
management computerized system before project effectiveness. Accountants and administrative and
procurement staff will also be trained in procedures relating to the use o f IDA funds (that is Special
Accounts, SOEs, Procurement, FMR, etc.) and in Financial Management including internal controls,
information systems and computer applications.

RISKASSESSMENT

Country Risks

The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) is actually to be finalized and shared with the
Government of Chad. Therefore it is early to make an opinion on the finance management system and o n
the budget procedures implemented at the country level. The conclusions o f the recent PPR and Reviews
carried in the country reveal significant weaknesses in both procurement and financial management areas
within the projects. Those areas have been clearly analyzed and appropriate measures and action plans
recommended for improving the quality o f the portfolio. Inthe area o f procurement, financial management
and disbursement, the country needs close supervision and particularly capacity building. The impact of
poor quality o f communication in the country could affect the quality o f the Projects. Despite the
weaknesses the environment is reliable for the implementation o f new projects.

Project Risks

The table below identifies the main risks faced by the project and existing or potential mitigation measures.




                                                    - 72 -

                   Risks                      RiskRating              Mitigation Measures
Delays inthe recruitment o f P M U staff           M        Recruitment of key P M U staff as condition
                                                            o f negotiation
Delays in the recruitment o f LPMUs                         Planning o f Recruitment o f key LPMUs
rtaff                                                       staff as condition of effectiveness.
                                                    H       The Recruitment depends on the Project
                                                            pace and quality o f the follow-up.
                                                            The time frame o f the Recruitment o f key
                                                            staff should be respected.
Slowness in the transfer o f funds to              M        Opening o f Second Generation Special
:omunities and to LPMUs                                     Accounts and 90-Day Advance Accounts at
                                                            regional     level    to    fmance   directly
                                                            communities'     subprojects and LPMUs'
                                                            activities and operating costs.
                                                   M        Counterpart funds budgeted annually by the
Delay in the payment o f counterpart                        Government and deposited in the Project
Funds                                                       Counterpart Account
Counterpart funds are not sufficient to             M       Petroleum revenues may enable sufficient
meet project needs                                          counterpart funds available on due time
                                                    M       Appointment o f an external auditor is a
Delays inthe execution o f audits                           condition o f effectiveness and funds for
                                                            annual audits have beenbudgeted
                                                    M       P M U Coordinator will ensure that the
Follow-    up    o f   the    progressive                   follow-up      aspect     o f   the  project
implementation o f the Project.                             implementation pace is part o f monitoring
                                                            terms o f reference
 Risk Rating: H (High); M (Moderate);
             N (Negligible)


CONCLUSION

Based on the evaluation above, the Project does not currently satisfy minimumWorld Bank financial
management requirements.     In order to establish an acceptable control environment and to mitigate
financial management risks the various measures should be taken by the due dates as indicated in the
table below. The project financial management risk is assessed as being moderate provided that the
financial management arrangements are properly implemented and the following financial management
action plansatisfactorily addressed inpractice:




                                               - 73 -

FinancialManagementAction Plan

          ACTIVITY                       RESPONSIBILITY        DEADLINE
  AgreementonTORSfor the                                       Completed
  recruitment of an ExtemalAuditor        GovernmentTeam
  Agreement onthe Project Financial
  Management Procedures Manual            GovernmentTeam       Completed
  Establish a filly operational
  Computerized FinancialManagement
  System: Acquisition o f software;          PROADEL           Effectiveness
  Productionof the Project Financial
 Management ProceduresManual
 Appointment o f PMUkey financial
  staff                                   GovernmentTeam       Completed
  a)Coordinator
 b) ChiefFinancial Officer c)
 Accountant
  d) procurement specialist
  Appointment o f anExtemal Auditor          PRAODEL           Effectiveness
  Opening o f Project Accounts (Special
  Accounts. Counterpart Funds
  Account)                                   PROADEL           Effectiveness
  First Deposit made inCounterpart      Government of TCHAD    Effectiveness




                                         -74-

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                     CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project



Time taken to prepare the project (months)              20
 First Bank mission (identification)                    02/26/2001                         0212612001
/Appraisalmission depariure                     I        lll25l2002             I          11/25/2002         I
                                                                                                          ~~
 Negotiations                                           03/12/2002                         07/28/2004
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                           1213112004

Prepared by:

The project has been prepared by a multi-disciplinary team with representatives from the Government as
well as from the civil society. It was supervised by Mr. Mahamat Bachir, Vice Director-General o f the
Ministry of Planning, Development and Cooperation and Mr. Kouladje M'Bainarem, Director o f Land
Management at the Ministry o f LandManagement, Urbanism andHabitat.

Preparation assistance:

Japanese Grant for project preparation (TF026709 for US$395,000).

 3ank staff who worked on the projec included:
         Name                                           Speciality
 FranGoisRantrua                         SFRSI, Sr. Corporate Strategy Officer
 Noel Chabeuf                            AFTS3, Sr. Livestock Specialist, Task Team Leader
 Ousmane Seck                            AFTS3, Sr. Agriculture Extension Specialist
 Soulemane Fofana                        AFTS3, Operations Analyst
 Valerie Layrol                          AFTS3, RuralDevelopmentOfficer
 Luc Lecuit                              AFC07, Operations Officer
  Moctar Thiam                            MNACS, Sr. Transport Specialist
  Christophe Prbvost                      AFTU2, Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist
 Robert Robelus                          AFTS1, Sr. Environmental Specialist
 Kristine Ivarsdotter                    AFTS1, Sr. Social Development Specialist
 Agn&sAlbert-Loth                        LOAG1, Sr. Finance Officer
 Alassane Sow                            AFMBI, Country Manager
 Daniel Sellen                           SASAR, Sr. Agricultural Economist, Peer Reviewer
 Mary Barton-Dock                        AFTS4, Sector Manager, Peer Reviewer
 Maurizia Tovo                           AFTH2, Sr. Social Protection Specialist, Peer Reviewer
 Adolfo Briizi                           SASAR, Sector Manager, Peer Reviewer
 Jean-Charles de Daruvar                 LEGAF, Sr. Counsel
  MohammedBekhechi                        LEGEN, LeadCounsel
  Gilles Veuillot                         LEGAF, Counsel
  Marie-Christine Balaguer                LEGAF, Paralegal
 Siaka Bakayoko                          MENACS, Sr. Financial Management Specialist

                                                  - 75 -

 Emile Finatheu                  AFTFM, Sr. Financial Management Specialist
FridolinOndobo                  AFTFM, Financial Management Specialist
Virginie Vaselopulos            AFTS4, Language Program Assistant
Chloe Milner                    AFMTD, RuralDevelopment Specialist
Charles Donang                  AFTPC, Procurement Specialist
Lucienne MBaipor                AFTS3, Social Development
Korotimi Sylvie Traore          AFTS3, Language Program Assistant
 Sylvie Mbappe                    AFTS3, Office Manager
Pierre Morin                    AFTPC, Sr. Procurement Specialist
 HenriAka                         AFTPC, Procurement Specialist
 Jean-Jacques Pesquet             Consultant, Agroeconomist
 Ezzeddine Moudoud                Consultant, Decentralization and Governance
 DimitriKanounikoff               Consultant, Monitoring and Evaluation
 Renato Nardello                  Consultant, Agroeconomist
 Olivier Franqois                 Consultant, Project Monitoring
 Yves Jantzem                     Consultant, Monitoring andEvaluation


FrenchDevelopment Agency :
Denis Loyer                     AFD Sector Manager Environmentand natural Resources
Management
Louis L'aot                     AFD Country Manager
Caroline Piquet                 AFDProject Manager
Nicolas Fornage           AFD Project Manager
Pierre Forestier                AFD Project Manager

                             Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                    CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project


A. Project Implementation Plan

0   Manueld'extcution duPROADEL (avril2004) ;
0    Manuel de suivi et kvaluation (aofit 2004) ;
0    Manuel de Prockdures Administratives, FinanciBreset Comptables (aoct 2004)     ,




B. Bank Staff Assessments


      Aide-mtmoire de la mission de prk-identification duPIDR (May 2000) ;
                                                                  ))

    ((Aide-mkmoire de la mission d'identification duPIDR )) (March 2001) ;
    ((Aide-mkmoire de la mission de prtdvaluation du PROADEL (February 2002) ;
                                                                    ))

    ((Aide-mkmoire de la mission d'kvaluation duPROADEL (December 2002) ;
                                                                ))

    ((Aide-mtmoire de la mission de Diagnostic sur la mise en ceuvre de la Politique de Dkcentralisation au
   Tchad (Moudoud, August 2001) ;
           ))

   (( Rapport de mission :PRODEL-PTMR, composante pistes rurales )) (Thiam, January 2002) ;
   BTOR -Review of RuralWater and Sanitation Sector in Chad (Prkvost, March2002) ;
   Peer reviewers comments from M.Tovo, M.Barton-Dock, D.Sellen and A.Brizzi ;
   PCD Review Meeting Comments from JC de Daruvar, R.Verspyck, A.Sow, A.Schliessler, E.Huybens

    9
e   Minutesofnegotiations (July 2004).

C. Other

0   ((Etude d'impact socio-environnementale )) (November 2002) ;
0   ((Etude de faisabilitk duPROADEL (June 2003) ;
                                         ))
e   ((Etude de l'approche participative en zones pastorales )) (March 2002).

*Including electronic files




                                                  - 77 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                   CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project
                                                                19-Jul-2004
                                                                                                                          Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                                   and actual
                                                                     OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO74266      2004 CHAD:AgriculturalServices8 POs Project            0.00      20.00     0.00        0.00     0.00     21.31        0.00      0.00
PO77240      2003 CRlTiCAL ELEC 8 WATER Services                    0.00      54.80     0.00        0.00     0.00     38.43      22.41       0.00
PO00527      2003 EducationSector Reform                            0.00      19.13     0.00        0.00     0.00     45.21        5.99      2.39
PO72226      2002 2nd Pop. 8 AIDS                                   0.00      24.56     0.00        0.00     0.00     17.23        3.55      -1.39
PO35672      2001 TD Nal. Transp.ProgramSupportProject              0.00      67.00     0.00        0.00     0.00     48.15       38.33      0.00
PO62840      2000 MANAGEMENTOF THE PETROLEUMECONOMY                 0.00      17.50     0.00        0.00     0.00      2.42        0.66       0.00
PO55122      2000 Health Sector Support                             0.00      41.51     0.00        0.00     0.00     18.68       14.93      -3.30
P044305      2000 TDlCM PIPELINE                                   39.50       0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      3.05       -2.45       0.00
PO48202      2000 TD CAPBLDG. PETROLEUM                             0.00      23.70      0.00       0.00     0.00      2.42        7.99       0.00

                                                        Total:    39.50      268.20      0.00     0.00       0.00     194.91      91.41      -2.30




                                                                   CHAD
                                                             STATEMENT OF LFC's
                                                         Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                                Mar 2004
                                                                      -
                                                            InMillions USDollars


                                                                                 Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                                              IFC                                       IFC
     FY Approval                Company                               Loan     Equity      Quasi       Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic
     2002                       Finadev Tchad                         0.00        0.18       0.00       0.00     0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00
     2003                       Financial Tchad                        1.21       0.00       0.00       0.00      1.21       0.00        0.00      0.00
     2000                       TOTCO                                13.90        0.00       0.00      13.90     13.90       0.00        0.00     13.90
                                       Total Portfolio:              15.11        0.18       0.00       13.90     15.11       0.00        0.00     13.90



                                                                           Approvals PendingCommitment
     FY Approval               Company                                   Loan        Equity        Quasi        Partic
     2002                      Finadev Tchad                              0.28         0.00          0.00        0.00

                               Total PendingCommitment:                   0.28         0.00          0.00        0.00




                                                                   - 78 -

                                               Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                              CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project

                                                                  Sub-
POVERMand SOCIAL                                                Saharan    Low-
                                                          Chad   Africa  income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                              8.1    888     2,495                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          220    450       430                         T
GNi (Atlas method, US$billions)                             1.8    306     1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                   II
Population (%J                                              2.8     2.4      1.9
Labor force (%J                                             2.9     2.5      2.3                                         Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996.02)                               1 capita             I              primary
                                                                                                                     enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation belownationalpoverty line)          64
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                      25      33        30
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             48      46        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ilve births)                    116    105        81
Chiid malnutrition(% ofchildren under 51                    28                             Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)          27      58        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage f5+J                          54      37        37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of schooCagepopulation)          73      88        95
    Male                                                    90      92       103      -Chad         -- -- Low-hcomegmup

    Female                                                  57      80        87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                   1982    1992   2001     2002
                                                                                      Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                 0.83     1.9     1.6      2.0
Gross domesticinvestment/GDP                         3.2    7.5    41.2     62.6
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                    6.6   11.1    14.4     11.9                       Trade

Gross domesticsavingslGDP                           -3.8   -6.3     1.3      5.5
Gross nationalsavingsiGDP                           -2.7   -1.1     3.0      6.2

Current zccount OaizncelGDP                         -5.2   -8.6   -38.4    -56.5
Interest paymentslGDP                                0.0    0.3     0.3      0.5
Total debtlGDP                                     26.4    38.4    69.0     65.0
Total debt servicelexports                           2.7    4.8    10.0     12.4
Present value of debffGDP                                          39.3
Present value of debtlexports                                     269.1                             Indebtedness
                                        1982-92 199242     2001   2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        5.4       3.3    8.5     9.7     24.1    1  -Chad        -Low-incomegroup
GDP per capita                             2.8       0.3    5.5     6.6     20.6    I


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agricuiture                                        39.5    35.3
Industry                                            12.4   13.4
   MaflufaCtUring                                      ..  10.6    13.1     13.1
Services                                           48.2    51.2    46.7     46.7
Private consumption                                98.3    97.1
General governmentconsumption                        5.5    9.2
imports of goods and services                      13.5    24.8    54.3     69.0

                                               1982-92 1992-02         '   2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                               Growth of exportsand imports (%)

Agriculture                                          4.4    2.6     2.9      2.9
industry                                             4.6    7.3    26.2     26.2    150
   Manufacturing                                            9.4    25.8     25.5    100
Services                                             5.6    2.6     8.2      8.2      50

Private consumption                                  4.0    4.2    39.4     37.6
General governmentconsumption                      10.7     1.5     8.0      4.0    -50
Gross domesticinvestment                           14.2    15.9   138.0     33.0             -Exports         -.O'lmports
Imports of goods and services                        6.7   10.9   158.6     56.0




                                                               -79 -

                                                                                                                       Chad
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
Domestic prices                                                          Inflation (%)                                      1
(Om change)                                                              15

Consumer prices                                  -3.6    12.4    5.2     10
Implicit GDP deflator                      9.2  -12.9     7.8    6.7      5

Governmentfinance                                                         0
pA of GDP, includes current grants)                                       5
Current revenue                                   7.9     7.8    6.0    -10
Current budget balance                           -2.7    -1.6   -2.0
Overall surplusldeficit                         -11.4    -5.1   -6.3              -GDP          deflator - 0 I C P I        I
TRADE
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Export and Import levels (US) mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              182     176     177                                                        iI
                                                                         ,000
  cotton                                          96      67     62
  Cattle                                          50      69     69       750
  Manufactures                                      1
Total imports (ci4                               331     539    672       500

  Food
  Fuel and energy                                   4     26      31      250

                                                                                                                            I
  Capital goods                                   97                          0

Export price index (1995=100)                    132     102      93             96   97       98     99   00     01

Import price index (1995=100)                    140     104     107                  &4 Exports           Imports       O2
Terms of trade (1995=1001                         94       98     67

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002     1
(US$ mi//ions)                                                           Current account balanceto GDP (Oh)

Exports of goods and services              60    209     228    232
Importsof goods and services              104    467     869   1,361
Resource balance                          -44   -256    -641  -1,128

Net income                                   1      3     -14    -16
Net current transfers                      -1     94      41      31

Current account balance                   -44   -162    -614  -1,115

Financing items (net)                      46    128     619   1,181
Changes in net reserves                    -3     33       -4    -66

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millionsJ                    I29     137
Conversionrate (DEC,/ocai/US$)           326.6 264.7    732.4  696.1

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                            :omposltlon of 2002 debt (US) mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed       221    723    1,104  1,281
   IBRD                                      0      0       9      9                       F: 13G: 28
   IDA                                     36    259     516     623                                   A 9


Total debt service                           2    11       23     30
   IBRD                                      0      0       1      0
   IDA                                       0      3       9      5

Compositionof net resourceflows
   Official grants                         49    112       94
   Ofticial creditors                        1   140       33     64
   Private creditors                         2      0      -1     -1
   Foreign direct investment                 0      2      60
   Portfolio equity                          0      0       0                              C: 107
World Bank program
   Commitments                               0      0     104     55      4   IBRD                              .-
                                                                             ~                                 E. Bilateral
   Disbursements                            0     33       35     73      3          D Other multilateral
                                                                                          ~                    F Private
   Principalrepayments                      0       1       6      2      ;IMF
                                                                           -- IDA                              G Short-term
   Net flows                                0     32       29     71
   Interestpayments                         0       2       4      4
   Net transfers                            0     31       25     67

Developmenf tconomics                                                                                                 1UlUlULI




                                                     - 80 -

                   Additional Annex 11: [Implementation arrangements]
                   CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project


                                      Financial organization

                            IDA Grant Account
            *                                                          CounterpartFunds
                              InWashington                 +
   SA-A [Sub-projets]
         (Grant)         J
PMU         +I
            I                                     1


   3 second generation
  accounts (1 per LPMU)


LPMU



  Communities
   Accqunts        I 1
      1             1
                                    Service providersI suppliers




                                             - 81 -

                     Synthesistable of the differentreportscommunicationpathways

                                   MES :MonitoringandEvaluationSpecialist ;

I           Report                I Personincharge       I           Addressees

        Monthly Report                     MES                             MES
                                                                       Accountant
                                                                 UGP Other members
                                                                           MES
                                                                       Accountant
                                                                 UGL other members
                                                                          Donors
    Monthly implementation                 MES                             MES
            statement                    accountant
                                           MES
                                        accountant
        Quarterly report                   MES                  Publicationto the public
        Quarterly report                                                   MES
       Intermediary report                 MES                            Donors
                                                           Different persons incharge o f the
          Annual report                                                    tasks
        Activities report                  MES                            Donors
                                                               ImplementationAgencies
     Annual working plan                                                  Donors
 Technical and financial follow up        Director            Attached to payment requests
             dockets
   Micro-projects presentation      Managing committee
            document




                                                  - 82 -

                                             Additional Annex 12
                             Synergy between PROADEL and ASPOP
                    CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project


1.ASPOP/ PROADEL Intewated Institutional Organization

                           PSAOP/PROADEL Integrated institutional Organization

    PSAOP                                                                                               PROADEL

                                                 Steering Committee (COP)




        Central Project Coordination and

                     -
        Inter Regional Project
     Coordination and Management
           Unit (IPCMU)




h gf
" u
  k

                     Producer Organizations (PO)        Communes           Community Bared Organization (CDO)  -:
                                                                                                                v


                   Canton, Villages or Ferricks          Districts            Canton, Villages or Ferricks




                                                       - 83 -

2. Detailed complementarities betweenASPOP and PROADEL

  Areas of possible     PROADEL specificity              ASPOP specificity         Synergies and complementar&
    overlapping
  Beneficiaries      Community Based                   Producers' organizations    A part ofbeneficiaries are addressed
                     Organizations                                                 by the two projects, but on different
                                                                                   and complementary objectives.
                                                                                   Harmonized communication plans
                                                                                   o f bothprojects are beingjointly
                                                                                   prepared and implemented.
 Decisiodselection  Location: Subprefecture I         Location :Department
 committees for     Department
 micro-projects
                    Composition :                     Composition:                 Communication and coordination
                    Members will be representatives Members will be                between the committees will be
                    o f CBOs including women and      representatives from         strengthened through the sharing
                    representatives o f               producer organizations       o f the basic documents o f the two
                    deconcentratedtechnical           including women, civil       projects, the minutes o f the
                    ministries.                       society, private sector and  decision committees meetings and
                                                      deconcentrated technical     the local development plans (sent
                                                      ministries,                  to the PSAOP).
 National steering                                                                 A common steering
 committee                                                                         committee.
 Financingo f       Sub-proiects                      Sub-proiects
 sub-projects
 investments        The program will cofinance        Will finance demand drive    Regional Project Coordination
                    demand driven collective (i) productive sub-projects           and Management Units and
                    social activities, and (ii)       relevant to producer         project Steering Committees will
                    large-scale natural resource      organizations. The project   insure that the preparation o fthe
                    management activities. The        will not finance any         annual work programs are really
                    project will not finance any      individual request nor       coordinated and complement each
                    individual request nor            sub-projects such as         other.
                    sub-projects such as agricultura  agricultural inputs and far) Service providers will work
                    inputs and farm equipment that    equipment that could be      together in the preparation and
                    could be eligible for credit or   eligible for credit or under implementation o f sub-projects.
                    under other projects, including   other projects, including
                    PSAOP.                            PROADEL.

 Decentralized       Regional level.                   Regional level.             RegionalManagement Units will
  Project                                                                          be establishedinthe same cities
 Management                                                                        and where possible inthe same
                                                                                   building for a better collaboration
                                                                                   and beneficiaries information.
                                                                                   This collaborationwill be
                                                                                   strengthened through common
                                                                                   periodical meetings, exchange of
                                                                                   progress reports andjoint field
                                                                                   visits.




                                                   - 84 -

I Areas of possible    PROADEL specificity                ASPOP specificity         Synergies and complementarity
     overlapping
  Decentralized      Institutional support will be     Will help the micro         Activities financed under the
  Financial System   provided to strengthen the        finance system through      projects should not interfere with
                     micro finance sector.             the structurationo fthe     activities o f local microfinance
                                                       clients demands and         institutions. The increase o f
                                                       organization (POs)          financial capacity o f the
                                                                                   beneficiary POs through
                                                                                   jumpstarting support for
                                                                                   productive investments will
                                                                                   complement the institutional
                                                                                   support.

                    Will focus on large scale issues  Will address soil fertility   Service providers will
                    (watershed management, forest     and water management at       work together inthe
                    management, biodiversity and      the farm level               preparation and
                    pastoral areas management).       (conservation, tillage,       implementation o f
                                                      covercroping and              NRMsub-projects.
                                                      anti-erosion facilities).
  Supporting the    Will support the                  Will provide support to       Under the leadership
  decentralization  decentralization process:         deconcentrated technical      o f the Decentralization
  process           support to the legal and          ministries.                   Ministry, the
                    regulatory framework                                            deconcentration will be
                    definition, capacity building                                   more effective and the
                    related to the decentralization                                 decentralization
                    process.                                                        process will be
                                                                                    promoted.

  Capacity building Will provide training for:        Will provide training for:    The training plan will be prepared
~
                                                                                    and implementedjointly as
                    Subproject-related skills         Subproject-related skills     required, at both regional and
                    (including local development      (marketing, planning,         national levels.
                    plans and participatory           organizational, technical
                    assessment)                       and financial management
                                                      etc.)
                    Decentralization

 I




                                                   - 85 -

P
Areas of possible    PROADEL specificity               ASPOP specificity        Synergies and complementarity
  overlap ing

                   Accountability and                Technical and financial    The training plan will be prepared
                   governance (monitoring,           support to private sector  and implementedjointly as
                   management,etc.)                  serviceproviders           required, at both regional and
                                                     (including Demand driver   national levels.
                   Poverty reduction behavior        Extension and research)
                   changes (health, nutrition,
                  HIV/AIDS prevention, etc.)         Technical ministries and
                                                     the Cellule Permanente
                                                     and their deconcentrated
                                                     units.




Rural sector      The project will develop a        Will develop the            The computerized monitoring
monitoring        computerizedM&E system            computerized rural          system of the rural sector will
system            which will gather                  sector monitoring          integrate the M&E for PROADEL
                  information in data bases          system, which will         and ASPOP as well as other rural
                  about infrastructures, service    gather information in       developmentprojects.
                  providers, CBO and                 databasesaboutthe
                  communes and the                   channels, POs, service
                  decentralization process.         providers andproductive
                                                     investments.




                                                - 86 -

                   Additional Annex 13: [Multi-sectorAssessment]
                CHAD: Local Development Program Support Project

  1. Sector matrix


              Infrastructure             Education                Health                   Water

Strategic     National strategy adopted    National strategy      The GOC has laid out    National strategy
Context       by the GOC for               adoptedby the          a Programme dilppui     adoptedby the
              2000-2009 with the           GOC with the           au Secteur de la Santi  GOC with the
              objective to increase        objectiveto provide    (PASS) which is         objective to give
              paved and unpavedroads       educationto            supportedby several     everybody access
              andto improve                everybody in2015.      donors. The PASS        to safe water in
              maintenancequality.                                 will concentrate on     2020.
                                                                  health center
              No comprehensiverural                               rehabilitation
              transport strategy.                                 (buildings, trainings,
                                                                  medicine) and
                                                                  construction.
Diagnostic    Degraded and limited roac Enrollment rate is        The health systemis     The average
              network with 300 km full    57% for children        organized in 14         percentageo f the
             paved roads out of a         between6 and 11         Ddkgations              population with
              40,000 km network           years. Among 3653       Prkfectorales, 54        safe access to water
              (national network o f 6,20C primary schools, 31OC   Disctricts (38 with a    is 30%, with a rate
             km).                         are in rural areas and  hospital) and700 Zones   of 750 inhabitants
                                          56% of teachers are     de responsobilitk        pcr water pclint
                                          informal community      sanitaaire (600 with a   .Most ofthe pumps
                                          instructors, supported health post). Lack of     are dysfunctional
                                          by parents. Classroorr human resourcesis the     due to a lack of
                                          deficit is estimated at main issue with 66% to   local operators.
                                          18,000.                 75% unfilleddoctor and
                                                                  nursepositions.
PROADEL       Projet d'Appui au           The Education            WB supportsthe         None
related       Programme National des Reform Project (Em)           PASS in5
WB-Projects    Transports (PAProNAT)      will ensure that the     Prkfectures and also
              which will support the      framework for quality    supporfs a population
               GOC inhis rural            universal primary        and AIDS project
               transport strategy         education is inplace     that includes an
               definition.                and ready for            AIDS-related social
                                          imalementation.          fund (FOSAPI.




                                                 -87-

                    Infrastructure           Education              Health                   Water

 Synergy with        Inthe coming months     The total needof       PROADEL might           PROADEL will identify
 PROADEL             the PAProNAT will a      classroomswon't be    concentrate on          needs, make sure that
                     rural transport strategy met by current        rehabilitating          requests are registered
                     inthe three             projects and           existing centers        by the Division de
                     departmentswhere        PROADEL can bring      (providing              I'Hydraulique and see to
                     PROADEL begins its      additional resources.  equipment,              how the request might
                     implementation. This    Additionally, the low  medicine, trainings),   be addressed(by a sector
                     strategy will beusedb j enrollment rate for    insteadof building      project or by
                     PROADEL to address      girls is an issue      new health posts, as
                     communities'            PROADEL can            human resources
                    infrastructure requests. address through        would be lacking.
                                             capacity-building
                                             activities.
                                             PROADEL could also                             PROADEL). PROADEL
                                             support the            PROADEL canbring        could also strengthen
                                             community              capacitybuilding        the capacitiesof
                                             instructors.           support: HIV-AIDS       communities to improve
                                                                    prevention              infrastructure
                                                                    information, healthy    maintenance.
                                                                    behavior
                                                                    information. etc.
  Issues             ?`here is no             Prior to classroom    The MSmust              The Rural Water and
                     maintenancepolicy for    construction          authorizenew            Sanitation Sector is
                     rural roads.             approval,             health center           strongly supportedby
                                              deconcentratedline    construction.           other donors and
                                              ministries must be                            PROADEL shouldfocus
                                              consulted.                                    onneeds assessment and
                                              Technical                                     capacity-building,
                                              eligibility criteria                          instead.
                                              mustbe consistent
                                              betweenthe
                                              PROADEL and the
                                              ERP.

2. PROADEL and WB-PTMR (assessment summary)

Background

The 40,000 kmroadnetwork includes 12,700 kmnationallregional roads and 27,300 kmlocalroads. Most
of them are deteriorated and out of the 12,700 km, only 300 km are fully paved. Under the "Roads
Normalized index," Chad has been rated 21%. The non-availability o f year-round transport has also
created many rural enclaves, where the high cost of transport hinders the inflow o f inputs and consumer
goods, while hampering the outflow o f production to food-deficit regions and urban centers. Studies
showed that transport costs can represent as much as 70% o f marketingcosts.

The GOC has elaborated a National strategy for the Transport Sector and a 2000-2005 National Transport


                                                    - 88 -

Program with the following objectives: (i)  improving the network quality, (ii) increasing reliable year-round
network, (iii) increasing the share supported by the GOC, (iv) improving sustainability o f infrastructure
through better management and maintenance and (v) continuing liberalization o f the transport sector. But
there is no comprehensive strategy for rural transport.

The Bank supports 15% o f the National Transport Program through the National Transport Program
Support Project (PAProNAT),        the remainder being financed by other donors and the GOC. The
PAProNAT became effective inMarch 2001. It includes several components, among them a support to the
GOC in defining a rural transport strategy. This strategy will seek to contribute to improving rural
livelihood in Chad, by facilitating access of the rural population, which is mostly poor, to markets and to
economic and social goods and services. This activity was planned to be completed inDecember 2003.

Svnergv and collaboration betweenPROADEL and PAProNAT

The departments where PROADEL will be launched first, will become the implementation zones for the
rural strategy. This will be completed inthree phases:

0   Firstphase (four months): an interimstrategy for ruraltransportation will be elaboratedfor Bahr El
    Gazal, Dababa and Mandoul and will include necessary technical, institutional and financial data for
    its implementation;

0    Second phase (ten months): (i) monitoring and evaluation o f PROADEL implementation regarding
    rural transport micro-projects co-financed by the project, (ii)
                                                                  complementary studies on technical,
    institutional and financial aspects and (iii)
                                                baseline for a rural strategy inthe other departments
    concerned by the PROADEL phase 1;

0   Thirdphase: completion of the rural strategy.

The regional roads needs have been estimated for the three departments as follows: rehabilitation o f 653 km
inthe department ofMandoul, of 230 kminDababaandsigningof502 kminBahr ElGazal. Total cost
for these works, studies, periodic maintenance and day-to-day maintenance will be around 10.5 millions
USD. The works, studies and periodic maintenance would be supported by the GOC (through donors) and
day-to-day maintenance by the beneficiaries, which would have to organize management and maintenance
committees.

3. PROADEL and WB Rural Water Stratew

The Rural Water and Sanitation sector is strongly supported by many donors in Chad (AFD, EU, KFW,
BADEA,Saudi Fund,UNICEF, UNDP.. .),that finance construction and rehabilitationo fwater points and
support institutional and policy reforms. Over the 2000-2003 period, 13 projects, for a total amount of
US$ 68 million, are ongoing, covering all regions o f the country, which represents about 1,000 new water
points equivalent and 450 rehabilitations per year. For the coming years, several projects are already under
preparation for a total amount o f at least US$ 61 million.

However, several areas o f the RWSS sector policy need improvement to ensure a greater impact and a
better sustainability o f the investment. These areas include participation, gender inclusion, hygiene and
environmental sanitation, promotion o f local enterprises, long-term follow up, water supply and sanitation
insemi-urban areas and local government involvement inthe planningprocess and long term monitoring.



                                                    - 89 -

Possible Scope o f RWSS Interventionfor PROADEL

Given the wide availability o f financing for the RWSS sector projects and the above mentioned gaps inthe
sector, PROADEL will focus on:

    Identifying the demands for potable water from the rural communities, through the participatory
    process,

    Ensuring a greater community participation, including gender issues inthe decision-making process,

    Preparing the communities to better understand the interest and constraints o f such investment, in
    particular interms o f management and sustainability,

    Ensuring and monitoring that communities requests for water, mentioned in the Local Development
    Plan (LDP), will be taken into account by the Directorate o f Water in the programming o f the rural
    water supply projects,

    Emphasizing hygiene and environmental sanitation aspects through specific sensitization campaign,
    training and promotion o f local operators,

    Strengthening capacity o f communities to manage on a long term basis such infrastructure, and local
    governments inorder to ensure long term follow up.

The above approach offers the advantage o f applying the CDD concept to the RWSS sector while keeping
new investment inthe framework o f the sector policy md nationaltechmica1standards. This will gmrantee
the quality o f works, a lower cost investment for the country as well as for communities, and ensure a
better framework for the sustainability o f water facilities.

Itis also proposedthat, incasethe water-supply sector projects would notbe able to respondto the demand
of the communities within a reasonable timeframe, PROADEL would identify at that time an
implementation alternative consistent with the sector policy.




                                                     - 90 -

