                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                 Report No: AC113
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/10/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: CHAD                                                Project ID: P066998
                                                             Global Supplemental ID: P078138
Project: Local Development Program Support Project           Task Team Leader: Francois Rantrua
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 15, 2002               IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 30, 2003                              IDA Amount ($m): 20.00
                                                             Global Supplemental Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFTR2                                         Sector: Other social services (60%); Sub-national
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)             government administration (20%); Central
Status: Lending                                              government administration (20%)
                                                             Theme: Decentralization (P); Rural services and
                                                             infrastructure (P); Other human development (P);
                                                             Civic engagement, participation and community
                                                             driven development (S); Poverty strategy, analysis
                                                             and monitoring (S)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The Local Development Program Support Project (intended as Phase 1 of the Local Development
Program) will assist the GOC in designing and implementing a decentralized and participatory financing
mechanism that aims to empower local communities and decentralized authorities to manage
development funds transparently way and according to their own priorities. Specifically Phase I of the
project will initiate and test, in a limited number of areas, the community-based approach while helping
the GOC develop a coherent regulatory framework for the decentralization process and a master plan for
its implementation. The project will also initiate pilot activities on current natural resources management
issues (particularly land tenure, pastoralism), in order to identify solutions to be implemented in
subsequent phases of the project.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The project will have four components: (i) support to local development sub-projects, (ii) capacity
building for communities, (iii) support to the decentralization process and (iv) management and
information support.



Support to local development sub-projects


This component will propose a matching grant facility to co-finance sub-projects proposed by local
communities (associations, organizations, etc. with legal status) or local governments (commune /
communauté rurale level when established). Its purpose is to reduce poverty by stimulating local
development and improving communities' livelihood. The component will be demand-driven and thus
will finance almost any type of community-based developmental project communities deem important, so
long as it is not included on a negative list and it meets the eligibility criteria set out in the PIP. Among
these criteria, three can be highlighted: (i) sub-projects will have to be submitted as part of Local
Development Plans elaborated following a participatory assessment of their needs, (ii) beneficiaries will
have to bring their own contribution (cash, labor or materials) and (iii) sub-projects will have to be

                                                      2
                                                                                                        ISDS



sustainable, i.e. a sustainable maintenance scheme has to be established (management committee,
financial resources), the capacity of beneficiaries for maintenance of the sub-project has to be improved
or competent human resources have to be available to run the infrastructure (health personnel, teachers,
etc.). The program will finance (i) small social activities, (ii) natural resources management activities and
(iii) larger-scale and more expensive collective infrastructure projects that will affect several
villages/cantons. This component is also expected to co-finance the realization of sub-projects having a
positive impact on the global environment according to GEF objectives. The activities eligible are
environmental activities of only medium and long term economic return regarding priority sites and
proposed in the Local Development Plans. In such case, a percentage of the contribution requested from
the beneficiaries will be supported by GEF resources. The list of such eligible micro-projects along with
the priority areas to be covered will be established during preparation with PDF support.

The project has been designed to support and to comply with the decentralization framework. One of the
goals of the project will be to support fiscal decentralization by having funds flow through decentralized
authorities, once they have been democratically elected.

Given the demand-driven multi-sector nature of the project, the sub-projects are likely to touch upon a
wide spectrum of sectors, such as health, education, transport, energy, water and sanitation. These
sub-projects will have to be consistent with national policy.


Capacity building to local development stakeholders


The objective of this component is to strengthen technical and organizational capacity at the community
level with regard to participatory approaches, needs assessments, project management and access to
credit or new poverty-reduction behavior. It will specifically target local communities and their
associations, decision committees, as well as services providers (training institutions, NGOs, MFI). This
objective will be reached through:
     - Support to community participatory assessments and local development plans preparation and
     implementation. It will assist the communities in (i) participatory needs assessments, (ii) organization
     and decision committees election, (iii) local development plans preparation, (iv) sub-projects
     implementation. This subcomponent will be particularly challenging in pastoral areas where most of
     the population is nomad. In such zones, the approach will have to be different than in sedentary areas
     and will be tested on a pilot basis during the first phase. With GEF funds, this component will also
     provide local communities (in charge of the elaboration of LDP or participating in decision
     committees) with technical and organizational assistance to take into account global environment and
     integrated ecosystem management constraints, in the elaboration of their local development plans.
     The GEF alternative will also support co-management of protected areas, including the Binder-Léré
     Wildlife Reserve and the Lake Fitri Biosphere Reserve. An "IEM Guideline Document" for local
     development is expected be financed under the PDF-B and will reflect all of these concerns.
     - Trainings. Specific trainings will be provided by PROADEL through services providers (i) to
     strengthen decision committees so they can execute the activities envisaged under the program
     (topics such as local development techniques, conflict resolution, environmental and social impacts,
     etc.), and (ii) to influence community behavior conducive to poverty reduction (topics such as
     nutrition, literacy, HIV/AIDS,etc.);
     - Institutional support to micro finance institutions to provide efficient financial services to poor
     communities in rural areas. The project will (i) provide specific trainings to MFI as well as to
     communities (savings and credit basics), (ii) support new MFI set-up (feasibility studies, starting
     equipment) and (iii) support the definition and the application of the regional and national micro
     finance regulatory framework in Chad;

                                                     3
                                                                                                         ISDS



    - Institutional support to the Ministry of Land Management, Urbanism and Habitat: (i) provision of
    trainings and technical advisory services to staff at the central and departmental level, (ii) acquisition
    of equipment, and (iii) carrying out of studies, for the Ministry to perform land management
    activities related to PROADEL.


Support to the Decentralization


While the project is being designed independent of the decentralization process, the overall objective of
the proposed support is to assist the GOC in the effective implementation of its decentralization policy,
which is still in its early stages. The PROADEL includes the following four sub-components:
    - Support for the completion of the legal and regulatory frameworks which will include studies and
    technical support to the MDD to complete necessary laws and their application texts and to formulate
    a master plan for the implementation of the decentralization;
    - Capacity building at all levels. The PROADEL will strengthen the capacity of the Ministry
    responsible for decentralization and support a communication program on decentralization. It will
    also work actively to define training modules on decentralization to build capacity of all local
    stakeholders (decentralized authorities, communities, deconcentrated line ministries, traditional
    authorities, private sector).
    - Pilot activities in 10 communes. The project will strengthen capacities of stakeholders in 10
    communes among the 15 departments to be covered by the first phase of the program.
    - Land tenure pilot activities. The PROADEL will also work on land tenure issues which can be
    critical in Chad. The capacity of the National Land Tenure Observatory will be strengthened and
    three land management pilot operations will be launched: land information systems, mapping,
    dialogue on land management,etc.

With GEF resources, this component will also build capacity of decentralized agents from the Ministry of
Environment and Water (at the central and decentralized levels) in order to allow it to perform its tasks in
the co-management arrangement of protected areas and in environmental regulation enforcement.
Moreover, local capacity to administer and enforce natural resources management regulations will be
enhanced. This mainly implies training, definition of roles, equipment type of support. This component
also will support the finalization and implementation of a sound regulatory framework assuring a sound
management of the environment, the officialization of local regulations, and the dissemination of the
different regulations.


Management and Information Support


The Management and Information Support component will support project coordination and monitoring
and evaluation, through two sub-components:
    - Support to the project management, which will finance (i) technical advisory services and trainings
    to strengthen PROADEL's management entities (procurement, financial management, disbursement,
    monitoring and evaluation, etc.), (ii) the rehabilitation or construction of their office space, (iii)
    equipment and vehicles, and (iv) financial and technical audits;
    - Support to the program monitoring and evaluation system, which will rely on (i) a Monitoring &
    Evaluation System to follow activities in financial and technical terms, and (ii) a Knowledge
    Management System for decision makers. This component will also develop methodologies to better
    manage environmental information in order to target interventions for effective and rational land-use
    over the country. This component would complement the Rural Sector Monitoring System that will
    be put in place by PSAOP and PRODEL. Preparation phase will be used to more clearly design this

                                                        4
                                                                                                          ISDS



     component that will also encompass project management.



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Project (Phase 1 of the Program) will initiate the program in 15 departments (out of 47). The
program will emphasize community development in the oil and cotton production area (11 sudanian
departments), while piloting models for participatory development in pastoral areas (4 departments). In
order to decide which departments will be targeted by the program first, the GOC has come to agreement
with donors on criteria to be examined: (i) agro-ecological characteristics, (ii) population density, (iii)
level of social organization, (iv) level of infrastructure, (v) service providers presence, (vi) absence of
other local development projects, (vii) presence of thematic projects to collaborate, (viii) security, and
(ix) presence of decentralized financial institutions. It has been also agreed that priority zones will be
chosen in a way to (i) cover as soon as possible the oil and cotton production area which will be more
and more socially sensitive, and (ii) to allow an efficient and successful start of PROADEL. Using these
criteria the PROADEL will start in the departments of Mandoul Occidental, Mandoul Oriental and Bahr
Sara and expand its activities to Dodje, Lac Weye, Ngourkosso, Tandjilé Est and Tandjilé Ouest; it will
also cover the departments of La Nya Pende, La Pende and Monts de Lam as soon as FACIL is not any
more active; and it will launch some studies and pilot activities in the departments of Baguirmi, Loug
Chari, Dababa and Bahr El Gazal to refine participatory approach in pastoral areas prior to the following
phases. The characteristics of the concerned areas are the following:

Sahelian zone:
This zone is predominantly pastoral and its economic activity is characterized by nomadic movements of
herders in search of food and water for their livestock. The full agricultural potential of this area is
underused, notwithstanding the major limitation imposed by scarcity of water. In addition to the limits
imposed by availability of water, rural development is hindered by the area's isolation and lack of
services. Hot, dry winds blow across the land bringing desiccation and incipient desertification in their
wake. The ecology is fragile: droughts, erosion, deforestation and bush fires threaten the viability of the
rangeland vegetation and the animals, both wild and domestic.

Sahelo-Sudanian zone:
The region is rich in biodiversity and presents several wildlife reservesor other protected areas. The rural
economy of this central region is based on cereal production, livestock (transhumance) and gum arabic.
Access to water is often an issue and determines land use. The current rural development includes low
literacy, education levels and health due to the difficulty of delivering services, and economic
development in the region is hindered by its isolation from any major market. The zone is highly likely to
attract immigrant populations from other areas in the future, leading to increased pressure on biodiversity
and ecosystems in the longer run. Soil erosion and water management, especially groundwater, will be
additional issues to concern.

Sudanian zone:
Mainly rural small-holders live in this zone and represent 40% of the country's population on 10% of the
land (the whole sudanian zone considered). Population density is higher than in other zones and some
agricultural areas have up to 60-100 inhabitants per km2 and are reaching saturation. Soil exhaustion and
environmental degradation are critical issues. Generally this results from a short-term strategy of
extensive farming with no investment in techniques of soil regeneration and preservation. When soil is
exhausted, people move on to seek new land to convert to agricultural use. In a region where

                                                      5
                                                                                                      ISDS



demographic pressure is increasing, the last available areas of natural vegetation are being cleared,
precipitating widespread degradation of the ecosystems, loss of native plants and animals, and
introducing the threat of future desertification.

A GEF financed project is being prepared concomitantly to the PROADEL. A PDF-B preparation study
will identify zones for priority attention (in the whole country) and while the PROADEL will cover all
communities, some preference will be given to the ones which will be in or at the border of these zones.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The Project is based on the community driven development process. This type of projects are
classified as Bs.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                        Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                        Yes    No

    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                Yes    No

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 Yes    No

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   Yes    No

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               Yes    No

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                Yes    No

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       Yes    No

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                           Yes    No

    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                Yes    No

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                     Yes    No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

Due to the community-driven nature of the program, in which sub-projects are decided by communities,
it is impossible to know up front their exact environmental impacts. However the EA (also called ESMF:
"Environmental and Social Management Framework") has concluded that the sub-projects might trigger
the Environmental Assessment safeguard policy, the Natural Habitats safeguard policy, the Cultural
Property safeguard policy and the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard Policy. But the EA has not
identified major social and environmental PROADEL impacts, although it has noted that certain
environmental problems may arise from sub-projects if they are not adequately screened prior to funding.
For example, the EA has identified that of all the sub-projects potentially funded by the PROADEL, road
improvement or construction remains the sector of intervention the most likely to represent significant
negative impacts on the environment and local communities.

The screening process of sub-projects is detailed in the EA. See paragraph 3 for a detailed description of

                                                      6
                                                                                                        ISDS



these measures.



II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The EA has not identified potential cumulative impacts. However, screening process will also be
   supervised at the regional and central level to carefully monitor potential cumulative impacts of
   multiple similar sub-projects in one particular area.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Positive long-term impacts are expected from the project through communities empowerment in natural
resources management, environmental sub-projects financing and through the parallel GEF initiative
activities.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
This is a simple community-driven development project and project's alternatives are not relevant.
Nevertheless, considering the long-term extension of the PROADEL, the EA suggests to see alternatives
to submitted sub-projects on the basis of development activities already being implemented by
PROADEL in a previous stage.This strategy will enable the PROADEL to capitalize on best practices.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues

The environmental assessment of the project conducted during preparation has given a good indication of
the cumulative environmental impacts that can be expected from the project's generic investments. By
identifying issues in advance, proposing measures or changes in technology or construction materials and
recommending methods for monitoring environmental indicators (through local level institutions and
structures) commonly affected by project-funded investments, the time and effort required for specific
environmental and social assessments of sub-projects will be greatly reduced. The environmental
assessment of the project also proposes methods for increasing local government, community and other
partners' capacities for environmental appraisal and monitoring. The assessment suggests the following:

         Creation of an environmental and social screening, evaluating, and supervising mechanism which
         ensures that funded sub-projects are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable, and that
         any adverse environmental and/or social consequences are recognized early in the project cycle.
         Such a mechanism will allow foreknowledge of the major environmental and social issues and
         impacts of individual sub-projects, the set of measures to avoid them or mitigate those which are
         unavoidable, and the estimated costs of those measures.

         Raise community awareness about the environmental and social impact of project-funded
         activities and promote ways to mitigate or avoid negative effects: this will be done through the
         project's information, education and communication activities, which will assist in disseminating
         information related to good practices. Other information about appropriate construction materials
         and methods in environmentally sensitive areas, site selection criteria, and other measures to
         mitigate likely adverse impacts could be disseminated through technical handbooks, etc.

         Find methods for supporting improved natural resource management through the project's
         community-based interventions: the project will facilitate community understanding of the
         relation between their natural resources and their well-being, the need to improve both together,
         and the need for action to grow out of this understanding and be based on the community's own

                                                        7
                                                                                                        ISDS



         commitment and local structures. Because these poor communities often lack the impetus and
         initial capital necessary to get started, environmental problems often have to be pro-actively
         targeted at the community level. To this end, the project will play an active role in promoting
         and supporting projects aimed at improving communities management of the natural resources
         which they control and depend on for their livelihoods.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
A firm has been hired by the Borrower to undertake the social and environmental assessment of the
PROADEL and work began in April 2002. A draft has been reviewed by the Government of Chad and by
ASPEN and comments have been integrated in the report. A consultant has also been hired to complete
the resettlement policy framework which has been reviewed and approved by the Borrower and ASPEN
and has been integrated as an annex within the EA. The final EA report will be disclosed in country and
at the World Bank's Infoshop before the beginning of the appraisal mission.

PROADEL activities are community-based and have been and will be openly discussed in village
meetings during the process of community facilitation, which most often will encourage focused
discussion with specific interest groups like youth, women and elders. These meetings will lead up to
sub-project identification, prioritization, planning and local agreement, which factors in all community
groups concerns. Then communities will be responsible for sub-projects implementation.
Activities are also to de discussed and approved by decision committees (CDANSP) that are
representation of the communities and the deconcentrated line ministries. All environmental concerns
and mitigation measures will be discussed and agreed upon during these sessions.



E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
          in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
          similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
          safeguard issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               10/31/2002       11/5/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/12/2002       11/21/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                            11/12/2002       11/21/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive         Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               5/24/2002        5/24/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                           11/12/2002       11/21/2002

                                                     8
                                                                                                   ISDS



Date of submission to InfoShop                                         11/12/2002       11/21/2002

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                          Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                         Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                         Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                             Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                         Not Applicable Not Applicable

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                    Francois Rantrua                                   06/02//2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:    Kristine Ivarsdotter                               06/02/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:    Robert Robellus                                    06/02/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:


Approved by:                         Name                                               Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                                       6/03/2003
Sector Manager                       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                                 6/03/2003

