Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6036 
Operation Name 
Rwanda Third Community Living Standards Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (50%); Health (50%) 
Project ID 
P122157 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Local 
Government 
Ministry of  Finance and Economic Planning 
PO Box 158 
Rwanda 
Tel: (+250) 75-438 
Fax: (+250) 77-581 
Ministry of  Local Government 
PO Box 3445 
Rwanda 
Tel: (+250) 58-2229 
Fax: (+250) 58-2229 
Ministry of Health 
PO. Box 84 
Kigali 
Rwanda 
Tel: (+250) 574-458 
Fax: (+250) 570-541 
Date PID Prepared 
October 29, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 31, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 29, 2011 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
As a country of modest geographical size with an estimated population of 9.6 million, Rwanda is one of 
the world’s most densely populated countries, and it remains among the poorest, despite having made 
significant progress in the past decade.  The proportion of the population that national household surveys 
identified as poor decreased slightly from 60 percent in 2000-01 to 57 percent in 2005-06.  However, 
because of relatively rapid population growth, the estimated total number of people living in poverty 
rose from 4.8 million in 2000-01 to 5.4 million in 2005-06. Over 90 percent of those who were poor 
lived in rural areas, and poverty remains pervasive and deep. High fertility rates, maternal mortality, and 
child malnutrition also remain serious concerns.   
 
Rwanda’s Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS) for 2008-12 “builds on 
strong achievements in human capital development and promotes three flagship programs” to accelerate 
growth. These flagship programs focus on encouraging growth that creates jobs and increases exports, 
on strengthening governance, and on introducing the Vision 2020 
Umurenge
1
Program (VUP).  The 
VUP is expected to accelerate poverty reduction “by promoting pro-poor components of the national 
1
The Government of Rwanda (GoR) has progressively devolved responsibilities and transferred resources to decentralized 
levels of the administration 
–
Province, District, Sector (
Umurenge
), Cell (
Akagari
)
and Village (
Umudugudu
).  Of these, the 
last three are subordinate tiers of the district governments.  The VUP is implemented through this newly restructured 
decentralized local government system.   
Page  2
growth agenda…by releasing the productive capacity of the poor in rural areas through a combination of 
public works, credit packages and direct support”.
2
In addition, the EDPRS supports Rwanda’s commitment to achieving the health, nutrition and 
population-related MDGs, as it includes the objective of improving health status and slowing down 
population growth.  To achieve this EDPRS objective, the 2005-09 Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP) 
encompasses the following areas of focus:  (i) health human resources; (ii) drugs, vaccines and 
consumables; (iii) geographical access to health services; (iv) financial access to health services; v) 
quality of and demand for health services in the control of disease; (vi) national referral hospitals and 
treatment and research centers; and (vii) institutional capacity. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The Program Development Objective of Rwanda’s Community Living Standards Grant (CLSG) is to 
support the Government of Rwanda’s (GoR) social protection and health policy reforms designed to 
reduce extreme poverty, initially in 30 pilot Sectors, and to expand access to high-impact health, 
nutrition and population interventions at the community level. Since the inception of the first CLSG 
grant, the social protection under the VUP Flagship program has been scaled up to 90 pilot Sectors and 
the health interventions in 150 Sectors. 
GoR’s objectives and policies as delineated in the VUP program, coupled with an improved policy 
framework drawn from international good practice, are consistent with the Bank’s country assistance 
objectives and with the fiscal sustainability and effectiveness of public resource allocation as reflected in 
the EDPRS.  Furthermore, building on substantial progress in improving facility-based services, this 
operation will support the EDPRS objectives and will support a series of policy reforms in GoR’s 
community health, nutrition and population policies that complement the VUP in addressing these 
challenges, including a strategy to deliver high-impact interventions to households by a network of 
community health workers, designed to contribute to improved access to services by the rural poor.     
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The CLSG includes three programmatic development policy grant operations of similar size, 
approximately one year apart, with complementary co-financing of US$4 million by a Health Results 
Innovation Trust Fund grant
3
.The first development policy grant operation (CLSG-1) was approved in 
April, 2009 and the second operation (CLSG-2) in March, 2010.  This operation (CLSG-3) represents 
the third and last in the series.  The policy focus areas of the overall operation are social protection, 
health, nutrition, and population services.   
 
Social Protection Policy focus:
Expected benefits from the operation include a VUP policy framework 
and an MTEF that are closely aligned with the PRSG and EDPRS goals, while at the same time 
incorporating international good practice.  GoR’s social protection policies supported by this operation 
are expected to contribute to (a) a reduction in the poverty-income gaps in pilot Sectors over a three-year 
period and (b) greater opportunities for beneficiaries to seek self-reliance and to graduate into income-
generating activities from public works and in some cases from direct supports programs.  The operation 
is thus closely linked with GoR’s program, but enhances its quality and outcomes.   
 
2
The Government’s “Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (2008-2012)”, page ix. 
3
The IDA grant and co-financing would total US$10 million. 
Page  3
Health, Nutrition, and Population Service Policy focus:
Policy reform to improve community health, 
nutrition 
and population services supports the EDPRS objective to “improve health status and slow 
down population growth.”  EDPRS targets for Rwanda include expanding access to basic health services 
to improve hard-to-reach MDGs, including reducing fertility, malnutrition and maternal and child 
mortality, as well as combating infectious diseases, particularly HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.  
Building on substantial progress in improving facility-based services, this operation will support the 
EDPRS objectives and will support a series of policy reforms in GoR’s community health, nutrition and 
population policies that complement the VUP in addressing these challenges, including a strategy to 
deliver high-impact interventions to households by a network of community health workers (CHWs), 
designed to contribute to improved access to services by the rural poor.   
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Under Operational Policy 8.60, on Development Policy Lending, the Bank is required to determine 
whether specific country policies supported under the operation are likely to cause significant effects on 
the country’s environment, and, in the event of such likely effects, assess country systems for reducing 
any such adverse effects and enhancing such positive effects.  In the event of significant gaps in the 
analysis, or shortcomings in the country systems, the Bank is required to identify how such gaps or 
shortcomings would be addressed before or during program implementation, as appropriate.   
 
Country policies supported under the proposed operation are not likely to have significant positive or 
negative effects on the environment, forest, and other natural resources.  The country systems have 
adequate capacity to mitigate potentially small negative effects if any.  The framework for 
environmental management has evolved in the last decade, resulting in noticeable improvements in 
institutional capacity.  In addition, in 2008 the Ministry of Health adopted an Environmental Health 
Policy, which provides the overall context for the more specific Policy on Injection Safety, Prevention 
of Transmission of Nosocomial Infections, and Health Care Waste Management, approved in 2009.  
Furthermore, with Bank support, the Ministry of Local Government has incorporated into its VUP 
Public Works program specific environmental guidelines to minimize the likelihood of adverse 
environmental impact through its Public Works program and to ensure that any such minor effects are 
addressed if they should arise.   In 2010, REMA assigned an environmental expert to the VUP team in 
2010, who will closely work with the VUP team to ensure full compliance as the VUP evolves. 
Environmental challenges are also addressed through the environmental framework of the GoR’s 
Strategic Plan for Agricultural Transformation for marshland development.  The operation therefore 
complies fully with the requirements of OP 8.60. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA)
6
Total 6 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Yasser El-Gammal 
Title: Lead Social Protection Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-9726 
Fax: (202) 473-3500 
Email: yelgammal@worldbank.org
Page  4
