(ir. aC 6- INK
FILE    co         r         R E S TRESTRICTED
Report No. PE- 16a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
WEST PAKISTAN
June 3, 1970
Education Projects Department



QarreppZ Equivalents              Rs 4.76  - Uj; 1.oo
-   Ra 1.00  -.US$  .21
RS 1.0 Millon - U$210,000
Mossanr of Terms
NED Engineering College - Engineering College at Karachi
named after its major benefactor
Mr. N. E. Dinshaw



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Number
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................        i
I.     INTRODUCTION .........     ...............................   1
The First IDA Education Project ....      ..............  1
The Request for a Second Credit ....      ..............  1
Socio-Economic Background .....      ...................  2
The Education and Training System ....     ............   2
Education Finance ................................        3
II.    THE NEED FOR THE PROJECT ............................        4
Educational Development Strategy ....     .............   4
Industrial Development ...........................        5
III. THE PROJECT.                                                   7
A. General.                                               7
B.  West Pakistan University of Engineering
and Technology at Lahore.                             8
C.  NED Government Engineering College
at Karachi.                                           9
D. Accommodations .12
E. The Cost of the Project .12
IV.    IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS .....      ...............  15
General ..........     ................................  15
Implementation .......      ............................  15
Disbursements .......      .............................  16
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS .17
APPENDIX I - The Education System
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited West Pakistan during November-December 1969. The mission con-
sisted of Messrs. B.S. Braithwaite (general education), R.S. Gregory
(economist), J.C. Jones (technical education, consultant) and J.
Kulski (architect, consultant).






ANNEXES
1. Organization of the Education Department
2. Structure of the Educational System
3. Education Expenditure 1969/70
4. Education Finance 1969/70 and 1974/75
5. Distribution of 5,662 Employed Engineers, 1966
6. Project Details, W. Pakistan University
7. Staffing Position, W. Pakistan University and NED College
8. Project Details, NED College
9. Summary of Estimated Project Costs
10. Estimated Schedule of Construction and Disbursement
11. Educational Pyramid 1967/68
12. General Public and Private Education, Primary and Secondary Levels,
Actual and Projected Enrollments
13. General and Technical Education, Structure, Enrollment
and Teachers
14. Students Completing Course and Obtaining Degree in
Engineering, Actual and Projected
Map






P A K I S T A N
Basic Data
Genercal (1969/70 estimates)
Size of country                                    365,503 sq.miles
Total population                                   132 million
Rate of population growth                          2.8%
Average density of population                      360 per sq.mile
Gross National Product                             US$ 16,485 million
GNP per capita                                     US$ 124
GNP growth rate (1959/60 - 1969/70)                5.6%
GDP by sector (1969/1970)                          Agriculture 45%
Manufacturing 12%
Construction 6%
Transportation 7%
Other 30%
Governrment current revenue as % of GNP (1969/70): 12.2
Percentage of GDP spent on education               1.6%
WEST PAKISTAN
Education - 1967/1968
Population aged 5 - 9                              8,480,000
Population aged 10 - 16                            9, 640 ,000
Percentage of age group 5 - 9 in school            45%
Percentage of age group 10 - 16 in school          12.5%
Education expenditure per capita                   US$ 1.82
Government expenditures on education as a
pwrcentage of total Provincial Government
expenditure                                        16.2%






WEST PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF AN ENGINEERING EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        The primary objective of this project is to improve the quality of
education at two of West Pakistan's largest engineering educational
institutions, the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology
in Lahore and the NED Government Engineering College in Karachi. The
project would provide: (i) additional teaching areas; (ii) modern in-
structional equipment for laboratories and engineering workshops for more
effective practical instruction; and (iii) fellowships for upgrading the
teaching staff.
ii.       The requirements of the two institutions are very different.  The
engineering university in Lahore is well established with an enrollment of
2,100 students and a relatively good undergraduate teaching staff. Here,
the project would provide new buildings and the rehabilitation of existing
buildings, but its major contribution would be towards the provision of
much needed equipment, the initiation of a master's degree program, and the
development of a post-graduate teaching staff.
iii.      The NED Government Engineering College, on the other hand, is
poorly housed in a congested downtown section of Karachi and has a sub-
standard teaching staff and totally inadequate instructional equipment.
It is to be relocated on a 100 acres site contiguous to the University of
Karachi (outside Karachi). Aside from two hostels already constructed, the
project, therefore, would assist in the construction and equipment of essen-
tially a completely new engineering college for 1,500 students. It would,
in addition, provide technical assistance for teaching staff development
and for the use of the new engineering workshop equipment.
iv.       The project is consistent with the government's educational
development strategy to emphasize technical education and university studies
related to manpower needs. Moreover, the modest increase in engineering
graduates and, more importantly, the improvement in the quality of engineer-
ing graduates which would be made possible by the project could materially
assist the government in implementing its program for industrialization,
as recommended by a recent bank mission.
v.        The first World Bank Group education project in West Pakistan,
(IDA Credit No. 50 PAK) became effective in August, 1964, and provided
US$8.5 million equivalent for: (a) construction and equipment at the
agricultural university in Lyallpur; (b) technical teacher training; and
(c) equipment for six polytechnical institutions. The closing date was
extended by two years from December 31, 1968 to December 31, 1970. Although
the shortage of rupee funds, which has adversely affected the progress of
construction, has now been alleviated, a further extension at the closing
date will be necessary.



- li -
vi.       The total cost of the present project is estimated at US$12.8 mil-
lion equivalent, exclusive of approximately US$0.6 million of furniture
which the government would provide from its own resources. The estimated
foreign exchange component would equal US$6.4 million equivalent, 50% of
the total project cost. Civil works contracts and equipment supply con-
tracts would be awarded under the Association's guidelines for international
competitive bidding. Detailed lists of equipment and library books to be
purchased under the project would be submitted for the Association's approval.
vii.      The governments of the Punjab and Sind provinces, which are sched-
uled to be established on July 1, 1970, to replace the present province of
West Pakistan, would be primarily responsible to provide the remainder of
the capital costs and the necessary recurrent costs.
viii.     The project would be suitable as the basis for an IDA credit of
US$8.0 million equivalent, approximately 62.5% of the estimated total project
cost, exclusive of furniture. About $6.4 million, 80% of the credit, would
finance foreign exchange expenditures, and the balance, $1.6 million or 20%
of the credit, would finance local currency expenditures. The credit would
be made to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the proceeds would be relent
to the Province of the Punjab and the Province of Sind.



I. INTRODUCTION
The First IDA Education Project Credit
1.01      In 1964 IDA provided for a credit of US$8.5 million to finance
50% of the construction and equipment for the expansion of the West Pakistan
Agricultural University in Lyallpur, equipment for six polytechnics, and
technical assistance for technical teacher training (Credit Agreement No. 50
PAK).
1.02      Due to difficulties in developing a master plan for the university
campus and to delays resulting from replacement of the consultant architect,
the agricultural university portion of the project fell behind schedule and
in August 1968 the closing date was extended from December 31, 1968 to
December 31, 1970. Construction was seriously impeded by a lack of local
currency funds. Consequently, although the shortage of rupee funds has
been alleviated, the building program will not be completed by December 1970
and a further extension of the closing date will be necessary.
The Request for a Second Credit
1.03      Following an IDA reconnaissance mission in June 1969 the Pakistan
government in September 1969 requested IDA assistance in obtaining:
a)   instructional equipment and technical assistance for the
University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore;
b)   buildings and equipment required for the proposed relo-
cation and upgrading of the NED Government Engineering
College at Karachi, together with the requisite techni-
cal assistance;
c)   buildings and equipment for seven new polytechnics; and
d)   buildings and equipment for 11 boys' vocational institutes.
1.04      Owing to inadequate preparation of items (c) and (d) above, only
the two higher education projects (a and b above) were ready for appraisal.
An appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. B. S. Braithwaite (general educa-
tion); R. S. Gregory (economist); J. C. Jones (consultant, technical educa-
tion) and J. Kulski (consultant, architect) visited West Pakistan in Novem-
ber/December 1969.
1.05      During appraisal, the extensions of buildings at the engineering
university at Lahore were also included within the project. The total es-
timated cost is US$12.8 million equivalent, exclusive of furniture costs,
with a foreign exchange component of US$6.4 million equivalent.



-2-
Socio-Economic Background
1.06      West Pakistan, the larger of the present two Pakistan provinces
consists largely of semi-arid land, situated on the northwest of the Indian
sub-continent. The population, 88% Muslim, is estimated to be growing at
an annual rate of 3.3%, despite a vigorously promwted population control
program. Although 74% of the estimated 1968 population of 58 million live
in communities of 5,000 or less, a strong movement to the cities is evident,
with an annual urban population growth rate of over 5%. At present, eight
million Pakistanis live in the eleven largest cities, of which an estimated
2.5 million are unemployed. This rapid concentration of population has
strained all the social services including education.
1.07      The official language is English, but there are plans to replace
it with Urdu. Other regional languages exist and a proposed division of
the present West Pakistan province into four smaller provinces may result in
separate provincial languages.
1.08      In 1968, the labor force was estimated to be 17 million, with 55%
engaged in agriculture, 16% in mining and manufacturing, 15% in services,
8% in commerce and 6% in all other categories. The educational background
of the work force is low, since at present only 15% pass beyond the pri-
mary level of schooling. A limited absorptive capacity within the employ-
ment market and a social preference for white collar jobs keep the present
educational output at second and third level from being fully employed.
While the full extent of unemployment and underemployment is not known,
their magnitude is evident; they constitute a major problem.
1.09      During the Third Plan period of 1965-70, an annual growth of 6%
in GDP was maintained despite the 1965 hostilities with India and a decline
in foreign aid. To achieve this growth, emphasis was placed on quick yield-
ing investments and agriculture; a concerted effort in agriculture raised
the country to near self-sufficiency by 1969. These gains were made, how-
ever, at the expense of other sectors. Social services were especially hard
hit and in education, particularly in primary and secondary education, only
a small portion of planned projects was executed. In the industrial sector,
investment was curtailed and operations were restricted by foreign exchange
controls.
1.10      The present administration favors a more balanced approach to
future development, although expansion of social services will be limited by
available resources and the demands of on-going projects in other sectors.
The Education and Training System
1.11      Education is administered at two levels; national and provincial.
The national ministry controls major policy including planning, capital
financing and revenue assistance to the provinces. The provinces operate
the school system, including assisting and supervising local agency and



- 3 -
private schools (Annex 1). Local agencies are district authorities
which are mainly concerned with local government, but which in some cases
operate schools. Universities are based on the British pattern and enjoy
a good deal of autonomy.
1.12      The basic data pertaining to primary and secondary education are
listed below. A detailed description of the various levels of education
is provided in Appendix I.
Basic Data -- Primnary and Secondary Education, 1968
Enroll-                                    Pupil                % in
ments    % of    Teachers   Teachers  teacher    Ratio         private
Level      (0OOs)  age group  number  % qualified  ratio  Boys:Girls   Schools
Primary    3,774      45%      107,057       87%      35:1     74:26        22%
Secondary  1,070      15%       27,952       88%     38:1      80:20        42%
1.13      Secondary education comprises grades 6 through 10 (Annex 2) and is
followed by two years of intermediate education (grades 11 and 12) which
forms part of the four year bachelors degree course for arts and sciences
students. Satisfactory completion of the intermediate level is a pre-
requisite for admission to university studies in business, engineering and
medicine.
1.14      The minimum entry at the project institutions is a second class
pass at intermediate level. Hlowever, only candidates living in certain
geographic areas who fill "reserved" places are admitted with this minimal
attainment. Competition for admission to the other "open" places is so in-
tense that many places (up to 33%) are awarded to applicants already holding
a B.Sc., and the remainder to those with first class intermediate passes
but with more than the prescribed minimum marks. There is thus no shortage
of candidates well qualified academically for training as engineers, due to
the high prestige of engineering and the opportunities for employment which
are anticipated following training.
Education Finance
1.15      Total education expenditures for 1969/70 in West Pakistan, includ-
ing the private sector, will be approximately 783 million rupees (Annex 3)
corresponding to 2.1% of the West Pakistan's GDP. The present provincial
government's share, 566 million rupees, is 1.5% of the provincial GDP and
is considerably lower than the average for developing countries. This is
due in large part to the recent development strategy which emphasized quick
yielding investments and agriculture (para 1.09). For this reason, although
the Third Plan (1965 - 1970) allocated 988 million rupees to development
expenditure on education, only 443 million rupees, or 45% of the original
allocation, will have been utilized. A shift away from this strategy is



- 4 -
evident in the projections prepared for the Fourth Plan (1970 - 1975) which
include 1,150 million rupees for education development, an increase of 16%
above the Third Plan target but 160% above actual expenditures.
1.16      The Fourth Plan anticipates recurrent education expenditure in-
creasing at an average rate of 9.4% per annum. If the increase in govern-
ment receipts corresponds to the planned annual rate of economic growth,
5.5%, the share of government receipts allocated to education would increase
from about 20% in 1970 to about 23% in 1975 (Annex 4). The government is
experiencing difficulties in allocating 20% of its revenues to education
and may be unable to increase this proportion. Even if it does, the in-
crease of 3% will allow financing of only a modest capital expansion, and
the government will have to re-examine its development targets to ensure
that the necessary supporting recurrent expenditure will be available.
1.17      Not much is known at present of the fiscal resources, budgets, or
development plans of the four provinces which will replace the Province of
West Pakistan on July 1, 1970. It is assumed that they will receive the
central government's financial support in much the same manner as the Prov-
ince of West Pakistan now does and perhaps in a degree somewhat comparable
to their present pro rata share. Consequently, the recurrent costs of the
project institutions cannot be compared with the projected total educational
recurrent expenditures or the budgets of the new provinces in which they
would be located. The central government, however, has agreed to provide
the Provinces of the Punjab and Sind with the necessary annual funds to
meet the anticipated recurrent costs of the proposed project.
II. THE NEED FOR THE PROJECT
Educational Development Strategy
2.01      There has been considerable criticism of the educational system
in recent years and in July 1969 the Ministry of Education published pro-
posals for a New Educational Policy. This document identified existing short-
comings (Appendix I) and concluded that if education was to be an effective
instrument of national development, a radical departure from existing poli-
cies would be required. Accordingly, "a massive shift towards vocationally
and technically oriented education" was called for.
2.02      The Fourth Plan is still in the formative stage, but the policy
memorandum on education strategy states that the plan aims to "check the
unrestricted growth of traditional education and to make the system more
functional with respect to the future needs of the developing economy".
Priorities therefore include an expansion of higher education related to
manpower needs and employment opportunities.



- 5-
Indus trial Development
2.03       In the Second Plan period 1960 to 1965, Pakistan underwent rapid
development largely as a result of growth of its industrial sector. The
success of industrialization was attributable to the performance of the
private sector to wihich the Plan had given emphasis.
2.04      The Third Plan (1965-1970), continued to emphasize industrializa-
tion in development, but before the Third Plan could be implemented, the
Indo-Pakistan war broke out and Pakistan's resource position and priorities
were altered. As a result, the government gave priority to import substi-
tution projects and others which offered quick returns to the economy.
Consequently, the output of the agriculture sector showed a spectacular in-
crease in 1967/68, but the reallocation of resources to achieve this slowed
the growth of industry.
2.05       Present indications are that the guidelines for further industri-
alization recommended by the Bank's industrial policy mission of October-
November 1969 will be substantially adopted for the Fourth Plan period
(1970 - 1975). In this event, the prospects for industrial growth at a rate
ranging between 7.4% (the rate for 1968-69) and 12% (the rate for 1962-69)
are favorable.
2.06       For further industrial growth an increase in the supply and quality
of engineering graduates will be necessary. The number of additional engi-
neers that will be required cannot be determined with precision since a meas-
ure of confusion surrounds the estimates of the numbers of engineers employed
or not effectively used at present. Conflicting views were presented to the
appraisal mission, which concluded that some unemployment may indeed exist
among particular types of engineers, but that the change of emphasis from
the development of the industrial sector to the agricultural sector during
the past three years undoubtedly contributed significantly to the present
difficulties in the employment of engineers. In 1969, an ILO advisory
team analyzed the engineering manpower that would be required to implement
the government's renewed emphasis on industrialization. Estimating the
1970 stock to be 9,400, they projected a need in West Pakistan for 14,100
engineers by 1975 and 21,200 by 1980. To meet this, they concluded that
engineering enrollments in West Pakistan will have to increase from the pre-
sent level of 5,500 to 8,400 by 1975 and to 12,000 by 1980. This estimate
may prove to be on the high side, but demonstrates, as an order of magni-
tude, that a modest expansion of engineering enrollments at this time would
be justified.
2.07      More important than the quantitative need is the need to improve
the quality of engineering education being offered in Pakistan today. Pre-
sent training is highly theoretical and deficient in workshop and laboratory
practice. In a country where much of the industrial design is still im-
ported, and, therefore, most of the local engineers are employed in either
maintenance or shop operations, this lack of practical instruction is par-
ticularly serious. Consequently, employers are reluctant to hire graduates,
preferring instead to use practically trained men. This practice is common



-6-
in Pakistan (Annex 5). As there are limits to the extent to which craftsmen
or technicians can be up-graded, attempts to employ them in positions re-
quiring a broader and more scientific education can only result in lower
efficiency.
2.08      The engineering universities and colleges at present do not assist
graduates in gaining employment, and as the engineering employers do not use
the government employment service, each graduate must seek employment through
his individual efforts, without adequate knowledge of the real needs of the
industry and the opportunities available which might be more appropriate for
his particular talents. Placement offices established within the engineering
university and college could provide the prospective graduates with an over-
all view of government's and industry's needs and assist in more effectively
matching job requirements with individual abilities. In the process, liaison
between the engineering institutions and employers, now completely lacking,
could be established and utilized to ensure the relevance of the curricula
to the real needs of the employers. Accordingly, the government has pro-
vided assurances that such placement offices with proper staffing will be
established at least one year prior to the completion of the project.
2.09      In addition to having more and better qualified engineers educated
at the bachelor's degree level, a need has been growing within West Pakistan
in recent years for a smaller corps of professional engineers educated at a
higher level. At present no full time post-graduate engineering courses
exist in West Pakistan. Such courses for selected students should be de-
veloped, and the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology,
which offers these courses on a part-time basis, is the best choice for
initiating a full-time post-graduate engineering program. Initially, the
courses would lead to a M.Sc. degree; and perhaps at a much later date,
a doctoral program might be started. The graduates of the program would be
used in senior government posts requiring such a background, in supervising
professional engineers in public and private enterprises and for teaching
posts in other engineering institutions. The provision of such post-
graduate courses would also mean that many students who now go abroad at
considerable expense to obtain higher degrees would be able to take appro-
priate courses in their own country. Apart from the savings in foreign
exchange, the availability of such engineering courses in Pakistan would
undoubtedly reduce the "brain drain" in this field since many who now
study abroad fail to return to Pakistan.
2.10      To sum up, the existing system of training engineers is deficient
qualitatively and to some extent in quantity. With the renewed emphasis
to be placed upon industrial development as expressed by the government
in the Fourth Plan (1970-1975) more and better engineers will be needed.



-7-
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01      At the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology
in Lahore, the project would provide two new academic buildings plus admin-
istrative, conmunal and boarding facilities, the rehabilitation of exist-
ing buildings, instructional equipment for both new and existing buildings,
library books and periodicals, and technical assistance to up-grade the
teaching staff. At the NED Government Engineering College in Karachi, the
project would provide for the construction and equipment of a completely new
college and technical assistance for up-grading the teaching staff. The
project would make possible (a) an increase of 642 in the combined under-
graduate engineering enrollment; (b) the initiation of a full time M.Sc.
engineering program at the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Tech-
nology; and (c) a significant up-grading at both institutions in the quality
of instruction and the students' practical work.
3.02      Details of the existing and proposed extensions at the two project
institutions are as follows:
Enrollments      Boarding Accommodation          Staff Houses
Insti-   pre-  addi-   total   pre-  addi-    total   pre-   addi-   total
tution   sent  tional            sent  tional             sent   tional
West
Pakistan
Engineer-
ing
Univer-
sity
(a)B.Sc.
courses  2,083   332   2,415)
)   800    500    1,300    48          -     48
(b)M.Sc.        /)
courses      85-  335      420)
NED Engi-
neering
College
B.Sc.
Courses  1,190   310   i500    504    500         ,00      -       68      68
TOTALS   3,358   977   4,335  1,304  1,000    2,304    48           68    116
1/   part-time



-8-
B.  West Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology at Lahore
3.03      This university was established in 1961 in succession to the form-
mer Lahore Government College of Engineering and Technology. Since then, a
major building program has been implemented which has permitted student en-
rollment to increase from 300 to the present 2,168.
3.04      The university offers four-year first degree courses in civil,
electrical, mechanical, mining, chemical and metallurgical engineering, and
a five-year course in architecture. Part-time courses at M.Sc. level are
offered in civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical engineering and in
town planning. About 2,100 B.Sc. and 85 M.Sc. students were enrolled in
1969. By 1975, thiese numbers will be 2,400 and 420 respectively. (Annex 6)
3.05      The university is largely autonomous, controlling its curricula
and examinations and awarding its own degrees. Teaching staff are appointed
and graded internally. Funds are obtained from the government and from
independent sources. Development expenditures must be approved by both pro-
vincial and central governments and are met from these two sources. Seventy-
two percent of recurrent expenditure in 1968/69 was financed from the provin-
cial government, 11% from fees, interest, etc. and the balance of 17% from
drawing on cash reserves. The government's contribution will have to in-
crease substantially within the next two or three years when the present
cash balances will have been exhausted.
Buildings
3.06      Included in the project are new buildings for the departments of
civil and electrical engineering, comprising laboratories, workshops and
classrooms, plus administrative, communal and boarding facilities. As a
result of the additional accommodations so provided, the university will be
able to allocate the space released by these two departments to provide much
needed accommodations for other departments. In addition, the project would
include the rehabilitation of approximately 195,000 sq. ft. of existing
academic buildings.
Equipment
3.07      Much of the equipment taken over in 1961 was obsolete and has been
replaced between 1962 and 1967 with the aid of a United Nations Special Fund
grant of rupees 2,400,000 and the university's own contribution of 1,600,000
rupees. With the contemplated expansion in enrollment and the development
of postgraduate courses and research programs, more specialized equipment is
required. Most of this is for the five engineering departments, and will
equip the new laboratory/shops and teaching spaces in the new buildings.
The project would include US$1.3 million for these purchases (Annex 6).



-9-
Library
3.08      The existing library has some 35,000 volumes, but additions are
required to meet the growing needs of the university, particularly in rela-
tion to post-graduate and research work. The project would provide US$53,000
for the purchase of reference books, research periodicals and journals.
Technical Assistance
3.09      The teaching staff of the university is well qualified (Annex 7)
and fully competent to the level of a first degree. It would be necessary,
however, to give further training to selected members of staff if the more
specialized requirements of post-graduate and research work are to be fully
met. The university has been improving the quality of its staff by a care-
ful policy of overseas training. This has resulted to date in four teachers
obtaining Ph.D. and two obtaining M.Sc. degrees, while 22 others are still
studying abroad. The project would complete this phase of the university's
staff development program by including US$166,000 for overseas training.
C. NED Government Engineering College at Karachi
3.10      The college was established in 1922 with funds subscribed partly
by the community and partly from the estate of Mr. N.E. Dinshaw, a wealthy
philanthropist. Its original purpose was to train engineers for irrigation
schemes. It was enlarged by further private gifts in 1944 and, in its
present form, was taken over by the government in 1947 following indepen-
dence.
3.11      The college offers four.year full-time courses to first degree
level in civil, electrical and mechanical engineering. The curricula and
examinations are approved by the University of Karachi for its degree of
B.Sc. engineering, and are satisfactory.
3.12      The college is administered on the same basis as a government de-
partment, with finance, staff establishment and appointments subject to con-
trol by the provincial government. As students fees are paid to the pro-
vincial government, the college has no independent source of income.
3.13      The student : staff ratio is high (24:1), compared with the more
appropriate corresponding figure of 10:1 for the West Pakistan University
of Engineering and Technology. Similarly, the establishment of senior posts
is lower than at the engineering university (Annex 7). The training provided
is heavily weighted towards theory, and as a result of these factors, to-
gether with the low workshop and laboratory operating expenditure, the
recurrent cost per student in 1968/69 was only US$170 compared with US$635
for the engineering university.



- 10 -
3.14      The college is located in a densely populated commercial section
of the center of Karachi, with no possibility of expansion on the present
site. With little increase in accommodations, the student enrollment has
increased from an original 300 to its present 1,190 (Annex 8). Social fa-
cilities are therefore almost completely lacking and teaching accommodations
are overcrowded and often unsuited to their purposes. Equipment is largely
obsolete and unused so that laboratory and shop work is minimal. The project
would assist in the complete reconstruction and re-equipment which is nec-
essary in order for this college to provide an acceptable engineering educa-
tion program at degree level. A completely new and modern engineering col-
lege would be constructed on a 100 acres site adjacent to the University of
Karachi. Two student hostels are being constructed and the project would
provide for the construction and equipment for two additional hostels, to-
gether with all required academic and communal buildings, and staff housing.
Enrollment and Accommodation
3.15      The project as submitted envisaged an enrollment of 2,000 students
by 1975 with capital and recurrent expenditure estimates unrealistically low.
Because of the uncertainties associated with (a) the actual level of demand
for engineering graduates in West Pakistan and (b) the willingness of the
provincial government to accept the higher adjusted capital and recurrent
expenditures, the total enrollment has been reduced to 1,500 students. The
government has provided an assurance that this enrollment is acceptable and
will not be exceeded without an appropriate increase in the available accom-
modation.
Library
3.16      The present library provision of some 10,000 books Is inadequate
in coverage and, in addition, most of the books are out-of-date. The lists
of requested books have been examined and a sum of US$126,000 has been
included in the project to bring the library to an appropriate standard.
Revised lists within this total will be submitted to the Association for
approval before ordering.
Teaching Staff Development
3.17      The development of a properly qualified teaching staff will be the
most essential and most difficult element in upgrading the quality of ed-
ucation at this college. Because of the unsatisfactory conditions described
above, recruitment of qualified teachers has been unsuccessful and the present
staff is inadequate both in numbers and qualifications (Annex 7). To achieve
an acceptable student-teacher ratio of approximately 16:1 for an under-
graduate engineering college, a total of 42 university graduates would
have to be added to the teaching staff to match the proposed enrollment
of 1,500 students. This would represent an increase of about 115% of
the present teaching staff with degrees.



- 11 -
3.18      The present deficiencies are not only in total staff numbers; the
establishment is out of balance. The number of senior posts should be in-
creased to a level such as exists at the West Pakistan University of Engi-
neering and Technology (Annex 7). To effect this, the distribution of posts
should be as follows:
Grade of post                                 Existing          Proposed
Professor                                         4                 8
Associate Professor                               5                13
Assistant Professor                              24                54
Lecturer or Demonstrator                         14                14
47               89
The government has agreed to emply, within three years of the Credit Agree-
ment date, a teaching staff at the NED Engineering College with the above-
proposed numbers of teaching grades.
Technical Assistance
3.19      As it is unlikely that many of the teacher recruits will have
post-graduate degrees, a massive training program will be necessary to
upgrade the qualifications of these recruits and a substantial number of
the existing staff. For this purpose, and to ensure that the newly equipped
engineering workshops and laboratories would be effectively utilized, the
project would include technical assistance as follows:
(a) for up-grading ten members of the existing staff: ten man
years of overseas education leading to the Ph.D. degree and six
man years at the West Pakistan University of Engineering and
technology leading to the M.Sc. degree.
(b) for up-grading the teacher recruits: 30 man years of over-
seas education leading to the Ph.D. degree and 30 man years at
the West Pakistan University of Engineering leading to the M.Sc.
degree. The teachers to be enrolled in the doctoral program
would already have a master's degree and immediately upon appoint-
ment would be seconded for the overseas training.
(c) The appointment of four expatriates with special experience
in engineering laboratories to advise on the most effective uti-
lization of the new laboratory equipment and to emphasize prac-
tical instruction within the various curricula. The appointments
would be of three years' duration commencing six months before
the transfer of the college to its new site.



- 12 -
3.20      In view of the time required to recruit prospective staff members
with the minimum qualifications to profit from the training described above,
as well as the time required for the training itself, efforts to initiate
recruitment should be started as early as possible. The government has
provided assurances that immediate steps would be taken to recruit the num-
bers of teachers and to implement the post-graduate programs, as described
above, in accordance with the time-table outlined in Annex 8. The borrower
and the Association would agree on the selection of the teachers to be
trained overseas and of the institutions to provide such training.
D. Accommodations
3.21      The schedules of accommodations under the proposed project are
economical. The size of lecture rooms, drafting rooms, laboratories, work-
shops and supporting facilities have been based on austere standards.
3.22      Provision for staff housing and boarding accommodation at NED
Government Engineering College is necessary because the new campus is
located outside the Karachi urban area. Boarding accommodation at West
Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology is included because the
university draws its students from the whole nation and a critical short-
age of housing exists in Lahore. With the completion of the 500 board-
ing places proposed at the engineering university, 46% of the student pop-
ulation would be provided with housing.
3.23      Location of both institutions accords with the geographic distri-
bution of population (see Map) and is consistent with government policy to
expand higher technical education in heavily populated and industrialized
urban centers. The sites are available and are satisfactory.
E. The Cost of the Project
3.24      The estimated total project cost, exclusive of about US$570,000
for furniture which the government would provide from its own resources, is
US$12.78 million (Annex 9). The foreign exchange component of US$6.35 million
represents about 50% of this amount, the details of which are given below:
Rs (millions)        US$ (millions)         % of
Local  Foreign  Total Local  Fore  ng  Total   Total
1. West Pakistan
Engineering Univer-
sity                  14.48   12.62   27.10  3.04   2.65    5.69         44%
2. NED Engineering
College               12.76   12.24   25.00  2.68   2.57    5.25         41%
3. Technical
Assistance               .62    2.62    3.24   .13    .55        .68      6%
4. Contingency              2.76    2.76    5.52   .58    .58    1.16         9%
TOTAL           30.62   30.24   60.86  6.43   6.35   12.78    100%



- 13 -
3.25      The costs by various types of expenditures would be as follows:
Rs (millions)         US$ (millions)       % of
Local  Foreign Total Local   Foreign  Total  Total
1. Construction
Academic & Communal
Facilities           14.19    6.10  20.29  2.98    1.28       4.26   33%
Boarding Facilities    5.00    2.14   7.14  1.05    0.45        1.50   12%
Staff Houses            2.29    1.00   3.29  0.48    0.21       0.69    5%
Site Development        3.00    1.29   4.29  0.63    0.27       0.90    7%
Professional Fees       2.14    1.43   3.57  0.45    0.30       0.75    6%
Sub-total          26.62   11.96  38.58  5.59    2.51       8.10   63%
2.  Equipment               0.62   12.90  13.52  0.13    2.71       2.84   22%
3.  Technical Assistance    .62    2.62   3.24  0.13    0.55        0.68    6%
4. Contingency              2.76    2.76   5.52  0.58    0.58       1.16    9%
TOTAL         30.62   30.24  60.86  6.43    6.35    12.78  100%
3.26      Unit costs used in the above estimates are based upon late 1969
prices for similar construction in West Pakistan, increased by 15% to cover
the expected escalation of construction costs during the project implementa-
tion period. The resulting unit cost of US$10.00 per square foot is reason-
able. In addition, an allowance averaging 10% of the estimated total pro-
ject cost is included for contingencies. The estimated foreign exchange
component ranges from 30% for construction, to 95% for equipment, and to
100% for books.
3.27      The capitaL cost of academic facilities per student place has not
been calculated for the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Tech-
nology because the project would provide equipment for, and extensions to,
already existing buildings. The capital cost of academic and communal
facilities per student place at the NED Government Engineering College is
US$2,260, an economical figure. The only other engineering degree institu-
tion financed by the World Bank Group is the Scihool of Engineering in the
University of Zambia. There, under conditions not comparable to Pakistan,
the cost of academic facilities per student place was $3,720. Estimated
unit costs for the project institutions (excluding technical assistance,
professional fees and contingencies but including furniture costs) are
shown below.



- 14 -
Project Institutions Unit Costs (US$)
Site      Build-  Furni-  Equip-   Total
Unit  Development   ing       ture   ment
Cost Category
1. Academic and Communal
NED Engineering        student
College             place    167        1,067      67     959      2,260
2. Boarding
West Pakistan          boarding 200        1,500    300        40     2,040
Engineering Univer-    place
sity
NED Engineering
College                   "  100        1,500    300       40      1,940
3. Staff Housing(average)
West Pakistan          staff      -          -        -        -        -
Engineering Univer-   house
sity
NED Engineering
College             "    " 1,470       10,147      -       -      11,617
3.28      Equipment cost estimates for both institutions are reasonable.
Detailed lists with itemized costs would be compiled by the borrower and
submitted to the Association for approval not less than one year after the
Credit Agreement signing. A limited amount of equipment would be purchased
directly from suppliers, without competitive bidding, in instances where
equipment with specialized characteristics would be required for particular
teaching or research programs or where undue delays in initiating such
programs could be avoided by this method. The amount to be procured in this
manner at each institution would be limited to $10,000 per year, with the
total not to exceed $40,000. A semi-annual report would be submitted to the
Association summarizing the amounts expended and the reasons for such pro-
curement. A master list of furniture to be provided by the borrower for the
project institutions will be subject to prior agreement with the Association.
3.29      The present provincial government of West Pakistan has approved
the allocation of sufficient funds to cover the capital requirements of
the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology. For the NED
college, however, the government has allocated only 22.6 million rupees,
4.3 million of which has already been spent for student hostels. The cost
of completing this college with 1,500 students has been estimated by the
Association staff at 30.2 million rupees, an amount considerably in excess
of the government's estimate for a college of 2,000 students. During the
negotiations, the government has indicated its willingness to provide the
requisite additional funds. Moreover, to prevent delays in project execu-
tion caused by rupee shortages, as experienced in the first West Pakistan
IDA education project, the Government of Pakistan has provided assurances
that a separate account, distinct from the normal Ministry of Education
budget, would be established by the respective provinces solely for use in
the implementation of each project item. This account (Project Revolving
Fund) would be replenished quarterly with sufficient funds to meet the
anticipated expenditures of the next three months. The establishment of
each Project Revolving Fund, together with an initial deposit in each Fund
of Rs 250,000, would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.



- 15 -
3.30      The combined annual recurrent costs of the project institutions by
1975 would be about US$3.2 million. If the US$0.4 million which the engi-
neering university is likely to receive from fees and its own resources is
deducted, US$2.8 million would have to be provided by the provincial govern-
ment. As the provisional Fourth Plan allocates only US$1.9 million for these
costs in 1974/75, assurances have been obtained that sufficient additional
allocation for the recurrent expenditures of the project institutions will
be made by the respective provincial governments.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
General
4.01      The proposed project would be implemented from 1970 to 1975 with
construction being completed early in 1974. Civil works contracts and con-
tracts for equipment supply would be awarded in conformity with the Asso-
ciation's guidelines governing international competitive bidding. Items
would be grouped to the extent practicable to form sizeable bid packages and
to permit bulk procurement as necessary to encourage such competitive bid-
ding. It is expected that foreign manufacturers would win most equipment
contracts but that the local construction industry would win the civil works
contracts. The proposed project is well within the capacity of the West
Pakistan construction industry to implement and there are sufficient numbers
of qualified building contractors. The schedule of construction (Annex 10)
is feasible. Local equipment manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15% of the c.i.f. landed costs of competing imports or the level
of customs duties generally applicable, whichever is the lower.
4.02      During the credit negotiations the government provided assurances
that a pre-qualification system, acceptable to the Association, would be
employed to ensure that only appropriately qualified contractors would be
allowed to submit bids for construction.
Implement ation
4.03      Consultant architects would be commissioned to design both project
institutions. They would be responsible for the preparation of master plans,
specifications and working drawings. They would also supervise tendering,
construction, and installation of equipment, and would authorise payments.
The need for careful selection of project architects is particularly impor-
tant in view of the delays in implementing the previous IDA Credit. There-
fore the signing of agreements between the government and architects, accept-
able to the Association, on terms and conditions agreeable to the Association
would be a condition of effectiveness of the the credit.



- 16 -
4.04      A project unit, headed by a full-time project director, would be
established within each institution for the proper execution of the project.
Each unit would include on a full-time basis an architect, an equipment
specialist and an accountant, all agreeable to the Association. The govern-
ment has provided assurances that both project units would be provided with
sufficient supporting staff, office space, equipment, transportation and
finance to enable them to function effectively. The appointment of the
Project Directors and Project Architects, together with adequate supporting
staff, would be additional conditions of effectiveness. Both project
directors have already been selected by the government in consultation with
the Association.
4.05      Each institution would be responsible for managing the technical
assistance program relating to it but the project director would be respon-
sible for co-ordinating the program and assisting the university or college
in its administration.
4.06      The consultant architects would prepare a manual of routine main-
tenance to be followed by each project institution. During negotiations,
the government has provided assurances that maintenance funds would be
provided to each project institution on an agreed scale, commencing one
year after the completion of the buildings.
Disbursements
4.07      The proposed credit would cover the foreign exchange costs of the
project which are estimated to be about US$6.4 million equivalent (80% of
the credit) and would provide about US$1.6 million equivalent for local
currency financing (20% of the credit). The credit would be disbursed on
the basis of: (a) identifiable foreign exchange costs of professional fees
and technical assistance; (b) the cost of equipment and books; and (c) an
appropriate percentage of civil works contracts. This percentage would be
adjusted as necessary so that withdrawals would be distributed over the
project implementation period. Undisbursed funds would be cancelled.
4.08      The Borrower, the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, would re-lend the
proceeds of the credit, to the Province of the Punjab and the Province of
Sind on the same terms and conditions as those of the credit from the
Association to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Execution of Project
Agreements between these provinces and the Association would be a condition
of effectiveness of the credit.



- 17 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the government provided assurances that
it would employ, within three years of the Credit Agreement date, a teaching
staff at the NED Engineering College with an agreed number and distribution
of teaching grades; and to implement an agreed program of post-graduate
studies at overseas institutions and at the engineering university at Lahore
to up-grade selected members of the present teaching staff and newly re-
cruited teachers (paras 3.17 - 3.20).
5.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be:
(a) the employment of consultant architects agreeable to the
Association on terms and conditions agreeable to the Asso-
ciation (para 4.03);
(b) the appointment of the Project Directors and Project
Architects, together with adequate supporting staff
(para 4.04);
(c) the establishment of a separate account (Project Revolving
Fund) sole]y for the implementation of the project, which
would be replenished quarterly, together with an initial
deposit of Rs 250,000 into each Project Revolving Fund
(para 3.29); and
(d) the execution of each Project Agreement by the appropriate
province (para 4.08).
5.03      The proposed project is suitable as the basis for an IDA credit
of US$8.0 million. The borrower would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
which would re-lend the proceeds of the credit to the Provinces of the
Punjab and Sind (para 4.08).






APPENDIX 1
Page 1
THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Administration
1.        The structure of the education system provides for (a) five years
of primary education; (b) three years of lower secondary education; (c) two
years of upper secondary education; (d) two years of intermediate education,
either general or technical and (e) two to five years of higher education
in university or professional courses. Intermediate education may be given
in separate colleges or in universities. Instruction up to the end of sec-
ondary schooling is in the vernacular or Urdu; thereafter it is in English.
General education is academic in character and oriented towards success in
entry to the succeeding stage.
2.        Education is not compulsory.  No fees are charged in government
or local-agency primary schools and only a nominal fee is charged in cor-
responding secondary schools and at higher education levels. A liberal
provision of scholarships and free places to post-primary institutions is
available for meritorious and poor students.
3.        Non-government education makes a major contribution to general
education ranging from 22% of the provision of primary education to 42% of
secondary and 51% by the degree stage (Annex 11).
4.        Education after the intermediate stage is in two stages described
as the degree stage and the post-graduate stage. While a bachelor's degree
in arts or sciences may be obtained at the end of the degree stage, there
are several courses, including engineering, which require four years of
training after the intermediate stage to obtain a bachelor's degree
(Annex 2).
General Education
5.        Primary Education is inadequate and inefficient.  In 1968, only
45% of the 5-9 age group was enrolled and the drop-out rate was 49%. Though
87% of the teachers are trained, conditions of work are very poor with many
schools consisting only of mud huts and some holding classes in the open
without benefit of furniture or equipment. The majority of schools have
few teaching aids. Enrollment in non-government schools is 22% of the
total.
6.        Secondary Education.  Numbers in general secondary schools have
increased 60% in seven years with 15% of the total age-group enrolled at
present. This increase has occurred mainly in government schools where
the proportion of enrollments has increased from 38% in 1961 to 58% in
1968. This means that there are still some 42% of secondary school pupils
taught in non-government schools. A high progression rate of 60% from



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
primary education is followed by a drop-out rate of 50% over the five sec-
ondary years (Annex 12). Of those who do complete the course through grade
10 about half continue their education at the next stage. There is little
diversification of the curriculum which is mainly a preparation for the
college and university stages. Buildings and equipment are as deficient
as in the primary stage; staffing ratios are worse. Classes of over 75
are not infrequent; some are over 100. Many secondary schools lack even
chairs or desks. Though qualified teachers number 88% of the staff em-
ployed, instruction is dominated by repetitive learning unrelated to the
pupilst interests or abilities. The best-equipped secondary schools are
certain boarding establishments in the private sector and the pre-cadet
colleges. Though scholarships to these exist, the high fees charged limit
attendance to the children of above average means.
7.        Intermediate Education.  This is provided for two years either
in ad hoc colleges or as the first two years of the university bachelor's
degree program. At this stage the proportion of students educated in non-
government institutions has increased to 55%. Though relatively high num-
bers are enrolled, standards are low due to ill-prepared students, over-
sized classes and inadequate buildings, libraries and scientific equipment.
8.        University Degree Level Education.  West Pakistan has six uni-
versities serving the province, namely Karachi, Peshawar, Punjab and Sind,
plus the specialist universities, engineering at Lahore and agriculture
at Lyallpur. The newly-established University of Islamabad, concentrating
on science and post-graduate work, is small as yet and is to serve all
Pakistan. Enrollment in these universities at degree level (grades 13
and 14) represents 38% of those pursuing their studies at this stage, the
remainder being in professional colleges (27%) and non-governmental in-
stitutions (35). Excluding professional education, non-governmental insti-
tutions at this level enroll 51% of the students, so that in general educa-
tion in West Pakistan there are more students enrolled in non-governmental
establishments as the stages of education progress.
Technical Education
9.        The structure of technical education in West Pakistan provides
for three levels of training corresponding to the needs of the craftsman,
the technician, and the professional engineer or technologist.
10.       At the first level the craftsman may be produced either within
industry or within technical institutes and vocational schools (grades 9
and 10) variously administered by government departments or private in-
terests. Courses in the Government Training Centers are normally of eight-
een months duration including, where possible, a period of up to three
months of supervised training within industry. There is a ready demand
for the output of these courses which have in large measure taken the
place of apprenticeship in the industrial crafts.



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
11.       Training at the second or technician level is given in some seven-
teen Polytechnics or equivalent institutions (grades 11, 12 and 13) under
the general direction of the Directorate of Technical Education: the con-
version of eight technical institutes to polytechnics is under considera-
tion. The government polytechnic institutes require the successful com-
pletion of a five-year secondary school course (grade 10) as a minimum
entry condition but some 30% enter with an Intermediate Science qualifica-
tion (grade 12). These schools, together with the commercial schools with
one or two year courses, provide for 0.3% of the 15-16 age group or 7% of
the pupils of this group who are enrolled in some form of schooling (Annex
13). The three-year polytechnic course combines a considerable amount of
practical work with theory so that the product, according to individual
choice or ability, may ultimately occupy a supervisory position in the
workshop or work in a technical office. The "Fourth Five-Year Plan" pro-
poses to amend the existing pattern by providing alternative courses from
the end of the second year. It is intended that the majority of students
shall continue as at present for a third year leading to a diploma award
but that a selected number shall continue for a total of four years leading
to a B.Sc. (technical) degree. In the first instance, the changes will
apply to two polytechnics to be designated as "technical colleges".
12.       At the third level, professional engineers and technologists are
trained in the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology at
Lahore (2,100), in university schools of engineering at Peshawar (1,280)
and Sind (880), in the NED Engineering College affiliated to Karachi Uni-
versity (1,200) and private colleges such as Dawood. The courses are of
four years' duration, following intermediate science level, and lead to
the B.Sc. (Engineering) degree. Two-year part-time courses leading to the
M.Sc. (Engineering) degree are already offered at Lahore (Annex 6).






WEST PAKISTAN: ORGANIZATION OF THE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
|  GVERNOR                                                                                                                                      GOERO
.INISTER
SECRETARY EDUI.CATION
AND CHANCELLOR
I INTERMEDIATE                                                              UNIVER5STIES AND
AND SECONIDAIRY ..........,n...                .EN.....GI.....EE.......N....
EDLICATION AND ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~EUCTONAFAR
4 EXAMINATfNIN EOENGE
[CAL  'REAU OF             VICE'~~~~~~~~EDUCC C 
I  I             .        .      I    -.                            I                                  I                                  |                                  |~~~~~I    I 
R EGIONDALY OFIE                           DIRRY |-  ECTORDATE D|CORT |UEA OFR                                                                   EXTESIO             H-p            INSPEC TINIFSADLSI
REGIONALOFFICES                                                                                            ION                  UCAEC L            RTI  SC           E     I          CO                  I S L              E    TL           L
DIVISIONAL OFFICES              |NSPECTOR
DISTRICT OFFICES                     I
z
INST TEEEIONS    SEONORLPIMR                                                                           PLYECNIDCMERIA8VCAIOA



WEST PAKISTAN: STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
PRIY1PRIMARY                                    R          Y     FI RST  CYCLE _.  -SECONDARY                * INTERMEDIATE         DEGREE  P       --  POST - GRADUATE            lm
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS
1        2
COMMERCIAL INSTITUTES
Technl                                                                                                                      1        2
TEducaioQn                                                                                                                   {
POLYTECHNICS
r - _ P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
ARTS AND SCIENCES
General
Erucation                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING
MEDICINE
*  QUALIFYING EXAMINATION
AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY
Agriculturol
Eucolution                                                                                                                   AGRICULTURAL INSTITUTES
Schooi yer                1         2        3        4         5         6        7         8         9        10        11        12       13        14       15        16        17
Ag                                       I         I                            I        +-        I         I                   --I--                                                                        I
Age   3         4         5        6         7        8         9         10       I,        12        13       14        15        16       17        18       19        20       21
Note  The oge group relationship applies only when students enter the school at 5 and proceed through the systemr withofut repeting
IBRD-4727



*WEST PAKISTAN EDUCATION EXPENDITURE 1969/70
A.   Recurrent Expenditure
1.  Departmeat  of Education                               372.6
2.   Other Departments:       Health         7.8
Frontier       7.4
Agricultu.re    2.4
-Other          5.6
23.2
3.   Total Recurrent                                       395.8
B.   Capital Expenditure
1.   Provincial Government
Education Department                                  138.2
2.   Other Provincial Departments                           32.4
3.   Total Capital                                         170.6
C.   Total Government Expenditure on Education
1.  By Province alone                                      566.4
2.   Central Government Contribution                        26.7
3.   Province and Central Government                       593.3
D. Estimated Adjustment for Defense Department
Education Expenditure (10%)                                     60.0
E.   Estimated Private Contribution to Education                    130.0
F.   Total Expenditure on Education                                 783.1
Source: Government budget (A-C) and Staff estimates (D-F).



ANNEX k
Education Finance 1969/70 and 1974/75
1969/70        197/75
(mil.lions of" rp.c )
1. Proviricial recurrent expenditure on
education                                        3'36           620
2.  Provincial recurrent receipts                  2,031          2,65li
3.  Provincial GDP                                37,800         49,b!00
Is, Provincial recurrent expenditure on
education as a m-.vcertage of provincial
recurrent receipts                              19.7g23 
%. Provincial recurrent expendi ture as a
pereenta-e of urovincial GDP                     l.0,4         1.2%
Source: 2Beget of Wst 1aki3t.n, Dew.laop t Statistics of West
Pakistan and Staff estimates.



.AM=E 5
Distribution of 5,662 employed engineers, 1966
a)      p lover                b)  By qualification       c)  By type
Govemnment        28%          Degree          67%        Civil       46%
Autonomous body   49%          Diploma          22%       Mechanical  29%
Private           23%          Not Qualified   11%        Electrical  20%
Other        5%
100%                         100%                   100%
Source: Directorate of Labor Welfare. Survey of 605 establishments with
more than 20 employees 1966.  (494 private, lllgovernment)



ANXTFa 6
West Pakistanvert             Engin erinand Technolo>
Project Details
Fquipmen b
Department                                  Cos;t (['is,)
Civil engineering                                          1833,000
Mechanical engineering                                      335, 000
alec trical engineering                                     256,ooo
Clhemical engineering                                      307,000
Metallurgical engineering                                   119,000
M4athematics                                                  5,000
Chemistry                                                     7,000
Physics                                                      45,0(0
Directorate of research                                      23,000
Public relations                                             19,000
Transport                                                    14,()00
Totl            1,313,(100       j
Enrollment of Students
Department                     1968-69                        1975-76
t degree    H-figher degrees    lst degr(c   Higher degrees
Civil LGngineering        528               48             585           115
Mechanical Engineerinrg   526               13                           L10
alectrical    "           554               24             585           :125
Mining         it         131               --             160            ---
Chemical                  138               __             205             o
Metallurgical "            71               __             135            10
Architecture              119               __             160           ---
Town Planning              16               __             --             20
2,083                 85           2 La5           420-_



ANNEX 7
W. Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology
and N. E. D. Egineering College
Staffing Position
Position                                W. P. U.                  N. E. D.
1967/68                   1969/70
Vice Chancellor/Principal                      1                          1
Deputy                                         1                         1
Heads of DepartmentLs                          9                     )
)   3
Professor                                      6                      )
Associate Professo-r                          nil                         5
Assistant Professor                           nil                         3
Reader                                        27                          1
Lecturer                                     108                         21
Assistant lecturer & demonstrator             28                        14
Total                          180                        49
Qualification                              W. P. U.                 N. E. D.
1968/69                   1969/70
Doctorate                                     27                        1h
MasLer's degree                               66                         11
3achelor' s de -rc                           85                        2)4
Diploma                                        37                         6
Other                                                                     h
Staff total                       215                         49
(1968/69) Student total                    2083                      1190
Staff/student ratio                     1:9.7                     1:24.3



ANNEX.$
N_E.D. Egneering College   aah
Project Details
Equipment and Books
Equipment          Books
Department                                      $                 $
Civil engineering                             251,000          35,700
Mechanical engineering                        560,000          46,200
Electrical engineering                         00o,ooo         31,500
General science and hurmanities                741,000         12,600
Public relations                               28,ooo            -
Total                          $  1, 313,)000     $ 126,000
N.B:  The equipment allocations for civil and mechanical engineering may be
varied within the total.
Technical Assistance
(year in which training comnences)
Fellowships               I
1970  / 71  1971 / 72   1972 / 73   1973 / 74   197)4 /_75
Type of course               A     B      A        A    B    A     B     A B
2 yr;, .minimum (Ph.D.)      4                2     4        2     - 2        _ __
I yr. (M.Sc.)               12     _    10      3     8      3     _      .
Effective staff
addition                       nil           7            12          17           6
Total effective staff
(senior)                       35           42           54           _1    77
ixpatriate staff          I
3 years                L            I l         l      1
Note: A = new recruitment  B = existing staff
Enrollment of Students
Actual            Project proposal        Recommended
Department                    1968/69                1974/75              1974/75
Civil engineering               588                    680                  500
lMechanical engineering         356                    660                   500
Electrical engineering          246                    660                   500
Total                     1,l90                  2,000                1,500



ANNEX 9
WkST PAXISTAN EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Project Costs
(In US$ '000)
TI W'EST PAKISTAN UiAIVERSITY OF ENGINEERING AIM] TECHNOLOGY
hcademic                 Staff
Facil-ities    Hostels    Housing    Total    F.E. Component
Civil Works          3,057         850        -        3,907          1,172
Equipment and
Books            1,366          20        -        1,386          1,319
Professional Fees      306          8;5       -           391           155
Technical Assistance   166          -         -           166           150
Sub-Total            1j, 95        955        -        5, 50          2,796
Contingencies          490          95        -           585           280
Total                5,385       1,050        -        6,435          3,076
THE N. E. D. GOVERMMENT EiNGDEERING COLLEGE
Academic                 Staff
Facilities    Hostels    Housing    Total    F. E. Component
Civil Works          1,850         800        790       3,h44         1,032
Equipment and
Books            1,439          20         -       1,459          1,392
Professional Fees      195          80         79         354           1L;6
Technical Assistance   511           -         -          511           404
Sub-Total            3,995         900        869      5,764          2,974
Contingencies           399         90         87         576           297
Total                4,394         990        956       6,340         3,271
Grand Total          9,779       2,040.O      956      12,775         6,347



WEST PAKISTAN: WEST PAKISTAN UNIVERSITY OF ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY AND
N.E.D. GOVERNMENT ENGINEERING COLLEGE. ESTIMATED CONSTRUCTION AND
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE.
S 6,530,000
DISBURSEMENT
(in U.S. Dollars)                 457,000                S 2,090,000                   S 3,591 ,000             S 392,000
RATE                         ( 7% )                     ( 32% )                      ( 55% )                  ( 6%
SELECTION OF ARCHITECTS
AND PREPARATION
OF MA5TER PLANS    _
DESI GN
PRELIMINARY  CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
rEQUI P MENT 
9                   ~~~~~~CONTRACTS 
APPOINTMENT                                                                                                 OCCUPANCY
OF ARCHITECTS _N/Ui                                                                                          DATE
CONT RACTS
CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT
DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION
CREDIT
AGREEMENT
SIGNING DATE
L LIA BI LI TY  PERI OD
1 234 5 6 7 8 910I            14 15 6 17 i89 2 21 22 23  25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35   4C 4 42 43 44 4
STAGES                                      2                           214                         36
(in months
IBRD - 4750 (R) 



WEST PAKISTAN: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
YEAL OF         GOVERNMENT  AND NON-GOVERNMENT  SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS  1967-68 (000s)
STUDY      LEVEL
16    POST-GRADUATE                                                         6.6  1.3
15    LEVEL                                         I                      7.6  1.4
-   -   -   -   -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -    -     -   -  -     I
14                        I                                  I             20   6
DEGREE6
13~~ _ 
13    LEVEL      I                 |                                       26    8i                                I
12   INTERMEDIATE                                                        44 u1o
LEVEL                                                             60 L     14
10)       I                                  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~I I100  ""   23
S Second Cycle                    BOYS                                       3GIRLS
9                                 I1 25                                           29
SECONDARY                                             178
8    LEVEL                                                                         43
7    First Cycle                                         209                        55
6                    --- X-----I -----| -NoNoGOvERNMENT
~~~~~~~~NON-GOVERNMENT
5                                        389                                            117
4                                  454
PRIMARY                 5 51 73
LEVEL              I                                "        'g 17 7
2                   61 9                                                                            220
1    788                                                                                                       3 41
800      700      600      500      400      300      200      100      0        100      200      300      400
IBRD-4732



West Pakistan
General Public and Private Education
Primary and Secondary Levels
Actual and Projected Enrollments  (OOs)
Grade    1965-66    1966-67    1967-68         1968-69    1969-70    1970-71    1971-72    1972-73    1973-74    1974-75
Primary   1       1,038      1,028      1J129           1,195      1,280      1,390       1,49.5     1,575      1,640       1,735
Level
2         704        759        839             950        920      1,005      1,115       1,315      1,310       1,395
3         568        618        708             705        770        840         925        940      1,140       1,240
4         474        527        592             640        670        730         805        890        995       1,105
5         370        444        506             560        615        645         710        780        865         975
Total  1 - 5     3,154      3,376      3,774          4,050       4,255      4,6i0      5,050       5,500      5,950       6,450
Secondary 6          280        304        308             305        340        370         390        430        475         535
Level
7         224        251        264             245        280        315         340        365        405         450
8         184        206        221             2C0        230        265         300        325        350         395
9         136        148        152             150        165        195         230        265        290         315
10         108        124        121             120        140        155         185        215        250         280
Total 6 - 10       932      1,033      1,066           1,020      1,155      1,300      1,445       1,600      1,770      1,975
Total 1 - 10    4,086       4,409      4,840           5,070      5,110      5,910       6,495      7,100      7,720      8,425
Source: Pakistan National Commission on Manpower & Education



WEST PAKISTAN
GENERAL & TECHNICAL EDUCATION
SrRUCTURE, ENROLLMENT AND TEACHERS - 1968
% of        Pupil/                  Enrollmert
Age Group     Enrollment      Teaching    Qaalified    Teacher    Population    as % of
Level            Grades     Coverage        (OOOs)          Staff        Staff       Ratio        (OOOs)     age group
General Education
Primary level         1 -  5      5 -  9          3,774         197,057        87%         35:1         8,480       45%
Secondary Level       6 - 10     10 - 14          1,066          27,712        88%          39:1        7,140       15%
Intermediate level   11 - 12     15 - 16             iI)                                             ( 2,500       4.4%
)       6,305        100%         24:1      (
Degree Level         13 -1l      17 - 18             41)                                             ( 2,270       1.8%
Post Graduate        15 - 16     19-above           7.4             950       100%          8:1          n.a.      n.a.
Technical Education
Vocational Schools    9 - 10     13 - 14            4.3             240       n.a.         18:1         2,800     0.15%
Polytechnics         11 - 13     15 - 17             7.5            684       noa.         11*1         3,600     0.21%
Commercial
Institutes          11 - 12     15 - 16            3.6             121       n.a.         30:1         2,500     0.14%
Agricultu~ral
Schools             11 - 12     15 - 16            1.4             n.a.      n.s.         n.a.         2,500     o.o6%
Professional         13 - 14     17 - 18           15.0 )1750                              14-1         2,270     0.7%
Colleges            15 - 16     19 above           9.1 )         1,750       n.a.            .na.                n.7a
Teacher Traininf
Training Colleges      13           17              1*9             222       100%           9:1        1,000     0.19%
Normal Schools         U            15              6.8             770       100%           9:1        1 280     0.53%
Source: West Pakistan Education Department                                                                                   4
>4J



StUdents completing coUrse and obtaining degree
In engineering, actual & projected
1964        1965        1966         1967        1968           196)         1970        1971         1972        1973         1974         1975
*0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
___  ..                                                                      _ ~~
Mechanical      87    69      91  73    175  118    215 150    283  203          296  213   281   202   289   208   309   222   331   239   356   256   388   279
Electrical     147   117    102   81    152  102    230 161    292   210        325  235   309   223  318   229   339   244   364   263   392   282   427   307
Civil          212  169   287   229    379 256    545  381    650   467         702  506  667   480  688   494   734   529  786568   846   609   923   664
Chemical        -     -      -     -      13-   9     21   15      26    19      22   16    21    15    22    16    23   17    25    18    27    19    29    20
mining          12    10    35    28       46  31     36   24      35    25      59   42    56    40    58    42    62    44    66    4871    a5    78    56
Textile         -     -      -     -      61   41     46   32      22    16      44   31    42    30    43    31  46    33    50    36    53    39    58-1  42
Architecture    -     -      -     -      _    _      20   14      22    16      15   11   114   10    14    10    15   11    17    12    17    13    19    14
Town Planning   -     -      -     -      -          -  2617       21    15      15   11    14    10    15    11    15   1l    16    11    18    13    19    14
Total      458  365   515   411.   826 557  139  794   1351   971   121478 1065   404            1447 104151431 11 13655  1195  178O  1282  1941  1396
Source:  National ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~  __  ~~FbS    roJ.totlcn  ot passe  ba.sd on 72% suoceses )
So=ret National Candssion on Mar.power and EfucatSion                                .ftw   woata     f>"sbs     n7Sso"w
Completed means those who have completed the course.
Passed means those who have campleted the course and passed the
degree exa9nation.



WEST  PAKISTAN                                        7              U           J
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                      ' cHINA
5PopvahoE pur" Wper squore miUt
0-1 50U
-Or 1000                                                                                      KA
*citla wIth iero than~ I000,000 lNowalftwt
*  CMOies wih nm  tI 75.00  bftntbitaf
*IWed PaW  t4sty of Elngik ad Te9yto" Laotw       .    _.X         /t       /uo5
2 KED. Swermerit  n*EnwTrCollege.Kati                                              _ 
ODlvision boundriss                                               zA
L'Riw, syfm
>-ts      0_,DERA  #SAv   ,           ,,
2'                                 ,7          Z  H 08 
-30* /       A F G AFGHANISTAN                                     f _s
LORALAI                                              X..
i                                 7    > s S B | 4E-/-12X%GS  2 N D I A o
\   C H A, G A I1INDIA s                   -    M       h
I    RCAN BAHAWALPI R[
I RAN             M                                                                               0     8     19    1    200
r ~~~~~~I                                           98*10~~~~~~~~~~~00 200
M A K                      ,                     JI R A Nl
~~  ~~~..  *~~~~~~ CHINA
o \       D A D U   SANGHAR                                   ("TWEST            I' 
~/LASBELA J H Y      D 'A-AD~ITN 
K ARACI I  11                          <  25e ARABIA    )  Aleao           DthSAUDI
KArchi                  THAR PARKAR  i.         _ ABI     Arabian           _fPKISTAN >t
A r a  bi a n   S e a                      T TTA    S< RN                                     \ea
ayof Benga
$0#.I AgA                tCEYLON
65                                                        /           /nadin             Ocean
FEBRUARY  1970                                                                                                             IBRD-2795



