CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 206 PAK
Project Agreement
(Engineering Education Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF SIND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 206 PAK
Project Agreement
(Engineering Education Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF SIND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated Aug. 14, 1970, between the PROVINCE
OF SIND acting by its Governor (hereinafter called the
Province) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by an agreement eated June 29, 1970, between
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
which agreement and the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969, made applicable thereto are hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that
the Province agree to undertake certain obligations to the
Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement shall have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Province shall carry out Part B
of the Project, or shall cause Part B of the Project to be
carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, financial, educational
and architectural practices and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Province shall, for the purpose of carrying out
Part B of the Project, cause to be established and main-
tained, within the College, a separate Project Unit with
such functions, powers, responsibilities, staff and resources
as .re set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
ho-7ever, that the Project Accountant and the Project
P zocurement Officer, together with their supporting staff
aall have been appointed and shall have taken up duties
within three months after the Effective Date.
(c) The Province shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Association promptly upon their preparation for its
approval the master plans, the designs, specifications, work
schedules and master lists of equipment and furniture for
Part B of the Project and any material modification sub-
sequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall request.
(d) The Province shall, in the carrying out of Part B
of the Project employ, or cause to be employed, consultants
and experts acceptable to, and to an extent and upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to, the Province and the Asso-
ciation, as set out below:
(i) consultant architects to prepare the master plan
for, and to design and supervise construction of, the
facilities included in Part B.1. of the Project; and
(ii) four qualified educational experts to assist the Col-
lege in carrying out Part B.3. of the Project, as


﻿set forth in paragraph 2(e) of Annex A to Sched-
ule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(e) The Province shall cause the construction of the
facilities included in Part B.1. of the Project to be car-
ried out by contractors acceptable to, and employed under
contracts satisfactory to, the Province and the Association.
(f) The Province shall take, or shall cause to be taken,
all such timely action as shall be necessary to ensure that
the land or the rights in respect to land required for the
construction of the facilities included in Part B.1. of the
Project shall be acquired as and when needed for the car-
rying out of the Project.
(g) The Province shall cause the College, not later than
one year prior to the completion of Parts B.1. and B.2. of
the Project, to establish an adequately staffed office which
will assist the College's graduates in finding appropriate
employment.
(h) The Province shall cause the College not to increase
its student enrollment above the number of 1,500 students
without a corresponding expansion of its teaching accom-
modation.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Province shall cause the College
to operate its educational institution, and to maintain its
facilities and equipment and to make all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound administra-
tive, financial, educational and architectural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Province shall allo-
cate annually to the College funds for maintenance on a
graduated scale rising from an allocation to the College of
not less than one and one-half per cent (11/2o) of the cost


﻿6
of the construction of the College's facilities included in
the Project, one year after completion of such construction,
to not less than two per cent (2%o) of such cost in the fifth
year after such completion.
SECTION 2.03. The Province shall (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
and services financed out of the portion of the proceeds
of the Credit re-lent to the Province, to disclose the use
thereof in Part B of the Project, to record the progress of
Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of the College; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to inspect Part B of the Project, such goods and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of such portion of the proceeds of the Credit,
Part B of the Project, such goods and services, and the
operations and financial condition of the College with re-
spect to Part B of the Project.
SECTION 2.04. The Province shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request with regard to its
programs for educational development and with regard to
the operation of the College.
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Province and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall rea-
sonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with


﻿7
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
The Province shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by the Province of its obligations under
this Agreement.
SECTION 2.06. The Province shall cause the College to
insure the imported goods to be financed out of the portion
of the proceeds of the Credit re-lent to the Province against
marine, transit and other hazards incident to acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 2.07. (a) Except as the Association may other-
wise agree, the Province shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the portion of the proceeds of the Credit
re-lent to the Province to be used exclusively in the carry-
ing out of Part B of the Project.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
(i) the goods and services to be financed out of the portion
of the proceeds of the Credit re-lent to the Province shall
be procured on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with such other
procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Project Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Province and the Association, and (ii) con-
tracts for the procurement of such goods and services shall
be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 2.08. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, the Province shall establish or cause to be


﻿S9
established a special revolving fund (hereinafter called
the Project Revolving Fund) to be used exclusively to make
payments for the cost of goods and services required on
the part of the Province to carry out the Project. The
Province shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the
Project Revolving Fund all amounts as shall be, from time
to time, required on the part of the Province to permit
the payments heretofore -specified to be made, promptly as
needed, out of the Project Revolving Fund. The Province
shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, the operations and financial condition
of the Project Revolving Fund.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Province shall make
or cause to be made an initial deposit in the Project Re-
volving Fund in the amount of two hundred and fifty
thousand Rupees (Rs.250,000) and thereafter shall on a
quarterly basis make or cause to be made such deposits in
the Project Revolving Fund as are required so that on the
first day of each calendar quarter there shall be available in
such Fund amounts sufficient to meet payments for the
cost of the Project required on the part of the Province to
cover the forthcoming three months of such costs as esti-
mated on the basis of the work schedules relating thereto.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the Effective Date.
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement and the obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate: (i) on the
date when the Development Credit Agreement shall ter-
minate in accordance with its terms, or (ii) on June 30,
1990, whichever is the earlier.


﻿9
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Province:
Chief Secretary
Government of the Province of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Alternative address for cables:
Chief Secretary
Karachi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be ex-


﻿10
ecuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the
Province may be taken or executed by the Chief Secre-
tary of the Province or such other person or persons as the
Province shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Province shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Province pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Project Agreement and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Project Agreement to be signed in their respective names
by their representatives thereunto duly authorized and
delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
PROVINCE OF SIND
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. ALDEWERELD
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Project Unit
1. The Project Unit shall consist of the following qualified
full-time staff members appointed in consultation with the
Association:
(a) a Project Director;
(b) a Project Architect;
(c) a Project Accountant; and
(d) a Project Procurement Officer.
The staff members referred to under (b) through (d)
above shall report to the Project Director.
2. Notwithstanding any powers a Planning Committee
within the College may otherwise have, the Project Unit,
under the direction of the Project Director, shall be di-
rectly and solely responsible to the Secretary of Education
of the Province for the proper execution of Part B of the
Project. The Project Unit shall be provided with adequate
funds, premises, equipment, supporting staff and means
of transport.
3. Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph 2 above, the following staff members of the
Project Unit shall be, inter alia, responsible for the fol-
lowing:
A. Project Director
(i) initiating arrangements for selection of consultant
architects, approval of their terms of reference and
administration of their agreements;
(ii) making necessary arrangements for briefing con-
sultant architects;
(iii) reviewing and approving, or arranging for the
review and approval by the appropriate authori-


﻿12
ties of, all master plans and architectural reports,
plans, specifications and other materials;
(iv) making all necessary arrangements for calling bids
and awarding contracts;
(v)- organization and administration in consultation
with the appropriate authorities of the program
of increasing and training the teaching staff in-
cluded in Part B.3. of the Project;
(vi) recruitment, organization, supervision and direc-
tion of all staff of Project Unit in performance of
their respective duties; and
(vii) preparation of quarterly progress reports for Bor-
rower and Association.
B. Project Architect
(i) obtaining all information relating to site and site
conditions;
(ii) preparing construction, furniture and equipment
schedules;
(iii) preparing architects' briefs, relating educational
specifications to realistic costing and functional
design;
(iv) acting as technical and architectural adviser to
consultant architects to ensure that brief is fully
understood;
(v) checking architectural drawings to see that space
provisions and educational specifications are in-
terpreted correctly so as to minimize changes dur-
ing construction and after bids have been accepted
and approved;
(vi) taking all steps required to ensure that furniture
is designed and manufactured to specifications;


﻿13
(vii) ensuring that furniture and building materials are
procured in time and available for use on schedule;
(viii) processing and expediting all statements of work
performed by contractors submitted through con-
sultant architects; and
(ix) visiting works and inspecting progress.
C. Project Accountant
(i) setting up accounting machinery required for ex-
ecution of Project;
(ii) assisting Project Director in coordination of activ-
ities connected with execution of Project and in
administrative management of Project Unit;
(iii) ensuring that a detailed account is maintained in
respect of each contract for procurement of goods
or services to be financed out of portion of pro-
ceeds of Credit re-lent to Province;
(iv) preparation of such interim evaluation and finan-
cial statements as are required under Development
Credit Agreement; and
(v) ensuring that financial regulations are complied
with by all supporting staff of Project Unit under
his control engaged in receipt and payment of
public and other funds.
D. Project Procurement Officer
(i) itemizing and listing all equipment, books and
furniture required for the carrying out of Part B
of the Project (for the purposes of this paragraph
D hereinafter called "educational goods"), show-
ing specifications and estimated unit and total
costs of each item, arranging for index coding
and numbering of each item for purposes of iden-
tification;


﻿14
(ii) grouping educational goods so as to permit bulk
procurement;
(iii) drafting standard documents for inviting bids for
educational goods;
(iv) inspecting educational goods to insure that quanti-
ties corresponding to correct specifications are re-
ceived; and
(v) arranging safe custody of educational goods and
delivery to site in accordance with target dates.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A. Contracts for Civil Works
1. Contractors shall be prequalified.
2. The following documents shall be submitted to the Asso-
ciation:
(a) for approval, prior to advertisement:
(i) lists showing types of works to be let and esti-
mated costs thereof ; and
(ii) prequalification documents and proposed dver-
tising coverage.
(b) for approval, prior to invitation of bids:
(i) evaluation of completed prequalification docu-
ments and proposed list of prequalified con-
tractors;
(ii) invitation to bid; and
(iii) draft contracts.
(c) for information, prior to contract award:
(i) summary and analysis of bids received; and
(ii) recommendation for award (including consult-
ant architects' recommendation), including jus-
tification of any award recommended to be
made to other than lowest bidder.
3. Prior approval by the Association of an award shall be
required only if:
(a) it involves an amount of $100,000 equivalent or more;
(b) it is for an amount above the lowest bid received; or
(c) it is for an amount exceeding by 10% or more the
estimated costs approved pursuant to paragraph
2(a) (i) above.
4. Promptly after execution of any contract and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application


﻿16
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, a copy of such contract shall
be sent to the Association.
5. Without the Association's prior approval no change
shall be made in any signed contract, if such change in-
volves a price increase of 10%  or more, or of at least
$25,000 equivalent, whichever is less.
B. Contracts for Equipment and Books
1. Identical or similar items shall be grouped together so
as to permit bulk procurement wherever possible.
2. The following docufhents shall be submitted to the Asso-
ciation:
(a) for approval, prior to invitation of bids:
(i) lists of all items showing specifications and esti-
mated unit and total price thereof, each item
to be coded and numbered for purposes of
identification;
(ii) draft bidding and contracting documents; and
(iii) proposed advertising coverage.
(b) for information, prior to contract award:
(i) summary and analysis of bids received;
(ii) recommendation for award, including justifica-
tion of any award recommended to be made to
other than lowest bidder; and
(iii) certificate signed by Project Director confirm-
ing that items covered by contract are of such
quantities and specifications as are shown in
the lists to be approved pursuant to tho provi-
sions of paragraph 2(a) (i) above.
3. Contracts shall contain only such items as are shown
in the lists to be approved pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 2(a) (i) above, and such items shall be iden-
tified in the contract documents by the same codes and
numbers as in such lists.


﻿17
4. Prior approval by the Association of an award shall be
required only if :
(a) it involves an amount of $25,000 equivalent or more;
(b) it is for an amount above the lowest bid received; or
(c) it is for an amount exceeding by 10% or more the
estimated price approved pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 3(a) (i) above.
5. With respect to all contracts for equipment, for the
purpose of evaluating bids, bid prices shall be deter-
mined in accordance with the following rules:
(a) The term Local Bid means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer, established in the territories of the
Borrower, for equipment manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by
the Association) in the territories of the Borrower;
any other bid shall be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(b) The bid price under a, Local Bid shall be the ex-
factory price of the equipment plus inland freight
to the construction site.
(c) The bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum
of:
(i) an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price
of the equipment (net of any taxes on its im-
portation) ; plus
(ii) inland freight to the construction site; plus
(iii) any such taxes as generally apply to equipment
if imported into the territories of the Borrower
by non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount
specified in (i) above, whichever is less.
6. Promptly after execution of any contract and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, a copy of such contract shall
be sent to the Association.


﻿18
7. Contracts for the procurement of specialized equipment
for particular teaching or research needs involving an
aggregate amount of no more than $10,000 equivalent
per calendar year may be placed directly with suppliers
without competitive bidding where necessary to prevent
delays in specific teaching or research programs, or
where equipment with particular characteristics is re-
quired. The aggregate total of such yearly procurements
shall not exceed the amount of $40,000 equivalent. In
case of such procurement, a semi-annual report shall be
submitted to the Association summarizing the amounts
expended for, and the reasons for, such procurement.


