CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 206 PAK
Project Agreement
(Engineering Education Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE, OF THE PUNJAB
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 206 PAK
Project Agreement
(Engineering Education Project)
BETWEEN
PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 14, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated Aug. 14, 1970, between the PROVINCE
OF THE PUNJAB acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
the Province) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOcIA-
TION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by an agreement dated June 29, 1970, between
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
which agreement and the General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated
January 31, 1969, made applicable thereto are hereinafter
called the Development Credit Agreement, the Association
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia, that
the Province agree to undertake certain obligations to the
Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now   THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement shall have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Province shall carry out Part A
of the Project, or shall cause Part A of the Project to be
carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, financial, educational
and architectural practices and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, serv-
ices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Province shall, for the purpose of carrying out
Part A of the Project, cause to be established and main-
tained within the University, a separate Project Unit with
such functions, powers, responsibilities, staff and resources
as are set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided,
however, that the Project Accountant and the Project Pro-
curement Officer, together with their supporting staff, shall
have been appointed and shall have taken up their duties
within three months after the Effective Date.
(c) The Province shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Association promptly upon their preparation for its
approval the master plans, the designs, specifications, work
schedules and master lists of equipment and furniture for
Part A of the Project and any material modification subse-
quently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall request.
(d) The Province shall, in the carrying out of Part A
of the Project, employ, or cause to be employed, consultant
architects acceptable to, and to an extent and upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to, the Province and the Asso-
ciation, for the purpose of preparing the master plan for,
and of designing and supervising the construction and reha-
bilitation of, the facilities included in Part A.1. of the
Project.
(e) The Province shall cause the construction and reha-
bilitation of the facilities included in Part A.1. of the Proj-


﻿5
ect to be carried out by contractors acceptable to, and
employed under contracts satisfactory to the Province and
the Association.
(f) The Province shall take, or shall cause to be taken,
all such timely action as shall be necessary to ensure that
the land or the rights in respect to land required for the
construction of the facilities included in Part A.1. of the
Project shall be acquired as and when needed for the carry-
ing out of the Project.
(g) The Province shall cause the University, not later
than one year prior to the completion of Parts A.1. and
A.2. of the Project, to establish an adequately staffed office
which will assist the University's graduates in finding ap-
propriate employment.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Province shall cause the Univer-
sity to operate its educational institution, and to maintain
its facilities and equipment and to make all necessary re-
newals and repairs thereof, in accordance with sound ad-
ministrative, financial, educational and architectural prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Province shall allocate
annually to the University funds for maintenance on a grad-
uated scale rising from an allocation to the University of
not less than one and one-half percent (11/ c) of the cost
of the construction and rehabilitation of the University's
facilities included in the Project, one year after completion
of such construction and rehabilitation, to not less than
two percent (2%c) of such cost in the fifth year after such
completion.
SECTION 2.03. The Province shall (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
and services financed out of the portion of the proceeds of


﻿6
the Credit re-lent to the Province, to disclose the use
thereof in Part A of the Project, to record the progress
of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of the University; (ii) enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect Part A of the Project, such goods and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the ex-
penditure of such portion of the proceeds of the Credit,
Part A of the Project, such goods and services, and the
operations and financial condition of the University with
respect to Part A of the Project.
SECTION 2.04. The Province shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request with regard to its
programs for educational development and with regard to
the operation of the University.
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Province and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-
nish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
(b) The Province and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
The Province shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or
the performance by the Province of its obligations under
this Agreement.
SECTION 2.06. The Province shall cause the University
to insure the imported goods to be financed out of the por-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit re-lent to the Province


﻿7
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or
repair such goods.
SECTION 2.07. (a) Except as the Association may other-
wise agree, the Province shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the portion of the proceeds of the Credit
re-lent to the Province to be used exclusively in the carrying
out of Part A of the Project.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
(i) the goods and services to be financed out of the portion
of the proceeds of the Credit re-lent to the Province shall
be procured on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by
the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with such other
procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to this Project Agreement or as shall be agreed be-
tween the Province and the Association, and (ii) contracts
for the procurement of such goods and services shall be
subject to the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 2.08. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, the Province shall establish or cause to be
established a special revolving fund (hereinafter called the
Project Revolving Fund) to be used exclusively to make
payments for the cost of goods and services required on
the part of the Province to carry out the Project. The
Province shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the Proj-
ect Revolving Fund all amounts as shall be, from time to
time, required on the part of the Province to permit the
payments heretofore specified to be made, promptly as
needed, out of the Project Revolving Fund. The Province
shall maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate
to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound


﻿8
accounting practices, the operations and financial condi-
tion of the Project Revolving Fund.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Province shall make
or cause to be made an initial deposit in the Project Revolv-
ing Fund in the amount of two hundred and fifty thousand
Rupees (Rs. 250,000) and thereafter shall on a quarterly
basis make or cause to be made such deposits in the Project
Revolving Fund as are required so that on the first day of
each calendar quarter there shall be available in such Fund
amounts sufficient to meet payments for the cost of the Proj-
ect required on the part of the Province to cover the forth-
coming three months of such costs as estimated on the
basis of the work schedules relating thereto.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the Effective Date.
SECTION 3.02. This Project Agreement and the obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate: (i) on the
date when the Development Credit Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms, or (ii) on June 30, 1990,
whichever is the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿9
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Province:
Chairman, Planning and Development Board,
Govermnent of the Province of the Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Alternative address for cables:
Development
Lahore
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the Prov-
ince may be taken or excuted by the Chairman of the Plan-
ning and Development Board of the Province or such other
person or persons as the Province shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Province shall furnish to the Associa.-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Province, take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the Province pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Project Agreement and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS IVHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused
this Project Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿10
names by their representatives thereunto duly authorized
and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PROVINCE OF THE PUNJAB
By /s/ A. R. BASHIR
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ S. ALDEWERELD
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Project Unit
1. The Project Unit shall consist of the following qualified
full-time staff members appointed in consultation with the
Association:
(a) a Project Director;
(b) a Project Architect;
(c) a Project Accountant; and
(d) a Project Procurement Officer.
The staff members referred to under (b) through (d)
above shall report to the Project Director.
2. (a) Notwithstanding any powers the existing Planning
Committee within the University may otherwise have, the
Project Unit, under the direction of the Project Director,
shall be directly and solely responsible to the Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University for the proper execution of Part A
of the Project.
(b) The Project Unit shall be directly and solely respon-
sible for the procurement of furniture, equipment and books
required for the carrying out of Part A of the Project,
subject only to the supervision of the Vice-Chancellor of
the University.
(c) The Project Unit shall be provided with adequate
funds, premises, equipment, supporting staff, and means
of transport.
3. Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph 2 above, the following staff members of the
Project Unit shall be inter alia responsible for the fol-
lowing:
A. Project Director
(i) initiating arrangements for selection of consultant
architects, approval of their terms of reference
and administration of their agreements;


﻿12
(ii) making necessary arrangements for briefing con-
sultant architects;
(iii) reviewing and approving, or arranging for the re-
view and approval by the appropriate authorities,
of all master plans and architectural reports,
plans, specifications and other materials;
(iv) making all necessary arrangements for calling bids
and awarding contracts;
(v) organization and administration in consultation
with appropriate authorities of the program of
overseas training of teaching staff included in Part
A. 3. of the Project;
(vi) recruitment, organization, supervision and direc-
tion of all staff of Project Unit in performance of
their respective duties; and
(vii) preparation of quarterly progress reports for Bor-
rower and Association.
B. Project Architect
(i) obtaining all information relating to site and site
conditions;
(ii) preparing construction, furniture and equipment
schedules;
(iii) preparing architects' briefs, relating educational
specifications to realistic costing and functional
design;
(iv) acting as technical and architectural adviser to
consultant architects to ensure that brief is fully
understood;
(v) checking architectural drawings to see that space
provisions and educational specifications are inter-
preted correctly so as to minimize changes during
construction and after bids have been accepted
and approved;


﻿13
(vi) taking all steps required to ensure that furniture
is designed and manufactured to specifications;
(vii) ensuring that furniture and building materials
are procured in time and available for use on
schedule;
(viii) processing and expediting all statements of work
performed by contractors submitted through con-
sultant architects; and
(ix) visiting works and inspecting progress.
C. Project Accountant
(i) setting up accounting machinery required for exe-
cution of Project;
(ii) assisting Project Director in coordination of activ-
ities connected with execution of Project and in
administrative management of Project Unit;
(iii) ensuring that a detailed account is maintained in
respect of each contract for procurement of goods
or services to be financed out of portion of pro-
ceeds of Credit re-lent to Province;
(iv) preparation of such interim evaluation and finan-
cial statements as are required under Development
Credit Agreement; and
(v) ensuring that financial regulations are complied
with by all supporting staff of Project Unit under
his control engaged in receipt and payment of
public and other funds.
D. Project Procurement Officer
(i) procurement of all equipment, books and furniture
required for the carrying out of Part A of the
Project (for the purposes of this paragraph D
hereinafter called "educational goods");


﻿14
(ii) itemizing and listing all educational goods show-
ing specifications and estimated unit and total
costs of each item, arranging for index coding
and numbering of each item for purposes of iden-
tification;
(iii) grouping educational goods so as to permit bulk
procurement;
(iv) drafting standard documents for inviting bids for
educational goods;
(v) evaluating bids received for educational goods;
(vi) inspecting educational goods to ensure that quan-
tities corresponding to correct specifications are
received; and
(vii) arranging safe custody of educational goods and
delivery to site in accordance with target dates.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A. Contracts for Civil Works
1. Contractors shall be prequalified.
2. The following documents shall be submitted to the Asso-
ciation:
(a) for approval, prior to advertisement:
(i) lists showing types of works to be let and esti-
mated costs thereof; and
(ii) prequalification documents and proposed ad-
vertising coverage.
(b) for approval, prior to invitation of bids:
(i) evaluation of completed prequalification docu-
ments and proposed list of prequalified con-
tractors;
(ii) invitation to bid; and
(iii) draft contracts.
(c) for information, prior to contract award:
(i) summary and analysis of bids received; and
(ii) recommendation for award (including consult-
ant architects' recommendation), including jus-
tification of any award recommended to be
made to other than lowest bidder.
3. Prior approval by the Association of an award shall be
required only if :
(a) it involves an amount of $100,000 equivalent or more;
(b) it is for an amount above the lowest bid received; or
(c) it is for an amount exceeding by 10o or more the
estimated costs approved pursuant to paragraph
2(a) (i) above.
4. Promptly after execution of any contract and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application


﻿16
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, a copy of such contract shall
be sent to the Association.
5. Without the Association's prior approval no change
shall be made in any signed contract, if such change in-
volves a price increase of 10% or more, or of at least
$25,000 equivalent, whichever is less.
B. Contracts for Equipment and Books
1. Identical or similar items shall be grouped together so
as to permit bulk procurement wherever possible.
2. The following documents shall be submitted to the Asso-
ciation:
(a) for approval, prior to invitation of bids:
(i) lists of all items showing specifications and
estimated unit and total price thereof, each
item to be coded and numbered for purposes
of identification;
(ii) draft bidding and contracting documents; and
(iii) proposed advertising coverage.
(b) for information, prior to contract award:
(i) summary and analysis of bids received;
(ii) recommendation for award including justifica-
tion of any award recommended to be made to
other than lowest bidder; and
(iii) certificate signed by Project Director confirm-
ing that items covered by contract are of such
quantities and specifications as are shown in
the lists to be approved pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph 2(a) (i) above.
3. Contracts shall contain only such items as are shown in
the lists to be approved pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph 2(a) (i) above, and such items shall be iden-


﻿17
tified in the contract documents by the same codes and
numbers as in such lists.
4. Prior approval by the Association of an award shall be
required only if:
(a) it involves an amount of $25,000 equivalent or more;
(b) it is for an amount above the lowest bid received; or
(c) it is for an amount exceeding by 10%  or more the
estimated price approved pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 2(a) (i) above.
5. With respect to all contracts for equipment, for the pur-
pose of evaluating bids, bid prices shall be determined
in accordance with the following rules:
(a) The term Local Bid means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer, established in the territories of the
Borrower, for equipment manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by
the Association) in the territories of the Borrower;
any other bid shall be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(b) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the ex-
factory price of the equipment plus inland freight
to the construction site.
(c) The bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum
of:
(i) an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price
of the equipment (net of any taxes on its im-
portation) ; plus
(ii) inland freight to the construction site; plus
(iii) any such taxes as generally apply to equipment
if imported into the territories of the Bor-
rower by non-exempt importers, or 15o of the
amount specified in (i) above, whichever is less.
6. Promptly after execution of any contract and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application


﻿18
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, a copy of such contract shall
be sent to the Association.
7. Contracts for the procurement of specialized equipment
for particular teaching or research needs involving an
aggregate amount of no more than $10,000 equivalent
per calendar year may be placed directly with suppliers
without competitive bidding where necessary to prevent
delays in specific teaching or research programs, or
where equipment with particular characteristics is re-
quired. The aggregate total of such yearly procurements
shall not exceed the amount of $40,000 equivalent. In
case of such procurements, a semi-annual report shall be
submitted to the Association summarizing the amounts
expended for, and the reasons for, such procurement.


