Report No. PID8084
Project Name                     Panama-Basic Education II (@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Education;  Basic Education
Project ID                       PAPE52021
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education (ME)
Date of Initial PID              June 1998
Date this PID prepared           August 1998
Tentative Appraisal Date         September 1999
Tentative Board Date             January 2000
1. Background. Panama has a relatively stable economy and one of the
highest levels of GDP per capita in the region. Most of the GDP, however, is
generated by a dynamic, internationally-oriented service sector, and there are
severe inequalities in the distribution of income. Close to one-third of the
population falls below the poverty line, according to a recent LSMS study, and
one-fifth of the population lives in extreme poverty.    Over 80t of the poor,
and 90t of the extreme poor, live in rural areas. Indigenous groups comprise
approximately 8t of the total population in Panama and are among the poorest
in the country, with the least access to quality educational services. The
Bank approved a loan in 1996 (Loan 3994-PN) for a basic education project
targeted to the poorest 185 townships (corregimientos) in the country (out of
a total of 510 townships). The project was designed to improve the quality of
basic education, improve equity of access to preschool and basic education for
children in rural and poor urban areas, and expand the coverage of preschool
education through community operated non-formal educational models.
2. Selected Education Sector Issues.   While 90t of primary school age and
56t of secondary school age children are enrolled in schools, there are
inequities in access to school for certain segments of the population.
Particularly indigenous children and those in the poorer rural and marginal
urban communities lack opportunities to attend school or to complete the
primary cycle. Rural children who are able to complete the primary grades in
multigrade schools cannot continue with the remaining basic grades (7-9)
because there are no lower secondary schools in their communities.
3. Enrollment rates of indigenous children in primary schools are 14t
lower, and in secondary schools 60t   lower, than other non-poor rural
population groups. Indigenous people in the 20-29 age bracket have an average
of 3.9 years of schooling, compared with 10.8 for the non-poor population of
the same age bracket.    No program of bilingual education has yet been
put in place by the government, though the new education law of 1995
introduced a provision for bilingual education for indigenous communities.
Bilingual intercultural education is among the 25 priority projects proposed
for implementation of the 10-year educational strategy.
4. A substantial number of primary and lower secondary schools in all
regions of the country are in need of replacement or major rehabilitation due
to significant structural damage from old age, or decayed plumbing and
electrical wiring. Many school buildings in rural and marginal urban areas



are shanty schools or escuelas-ranchos, precarious shacks in dilapidated
condition that are inadequate for any educational function and pose health and
safety risks to students and teachers.
5. The Government's ten-year strategy for the education sector, 1997-2006,
recognizes four critical issues that need to be addressed: (i) inequity in
access to school, permanence and continuity for the less privileged groups in
rural, indigenous and marginal urban populations; (ii) poor quality of
education reflected in memoristic learning, irrelevance of the school, poorly
trained teachers, lack of textbooks and dilapidated infrastructure; (iii)
obsolescence of the administrative model, characterized by centralized,
hierarchical and bureaucratic administration; and (iv) poor distribution of
financial resources, even though educational spending has increased from 5.6w
to 6.1- of GDP in the last ten years .
6. Consistent with this assessment of critical issues, the Government
Strategy outlines four major policy objectives and specifies that actions will
be targeted to the poorest population groups and those with the greatest
educational needs.
- Democratization of Education. Ensure equality of access to basic education
for all children, especially the poorest, with quality and excellence
comparable to the rest of the country. Provide regular or non-regular
preschool education services for all children, giving highest priority to
indigenous, rural and marginal urban areas.
- Quality Improvement. Disseminate values of a culture of peace and national
identity. Stress learning of science, technology and innovation. Provide
staff development. Promote educational research, evaluation and innovation.
Introduce educational technology and a new concept of educational
supervision.
- Educational Planning and Modern, Decentralized, Efficient Management.
Foster educational activity focused on schools, with autonomy and
flexibility for creative participation by educators, students, families and
the community in educational and administrative decisions. Provide
professional incentives to teachers, more time for learning, rehabilitation
and maintenance of school infrastructure.
- Expanded participation by the family and community in education. Integrate
the educational community through associations, collaboration centers,
councils, boards, committees and other participation mechanisms. Provide
orientation and training to parents in all local communities.
7. Project Rationale. The project would expand the actions undertaken under
the ongoing first Basic Education project in targeted poor areas and
communities not covered by that project. The proposed project would support
the CAS objectives of (i) poverty alleviation and (ii) enhancement of human
resource development. The project would target investments to provide
improved basic education services to the most destitute groups of Panamanian
society living in indigenous communities, poor rural and marginal urban areas.
The proposed project will focus primarily on alleviating poverty through
providing equity of access to quality basic education, including preschool and
initial education, for children of the most vulnerable population groups not
covered by the first Basic Education Project. It would support expansion of
initial and preschool education services to children of poor families who have
not had access to early educational experiences and who tend to have the
greatest difficulties in adjusting to primary school, remaining in school and
completing basic education. By supporting models of non-formal early
- 2-



childhood interventions and preschool education which involve the family and
the community, the project would contribute to increase awareness of child
development needs and foster the creation of a better community and home
environment for child growth and development.
8. Project Objectives. The objectives of the project are to: a) improve the
quality and efficiency of basic education in the country; b) improve equity
of access to preschool and basic education for children in rural and poor
urban areas; c) expand the coverage of preschool and initial education
through community-based non-formal education models; and d) strengthen the
planning, supervision, and policy-making capacity of the ME.
9. Project Description. The project consists of three components: (1)
Quality improvement of basic education, with three subcomponents: (a)
Rehabilitation of educational infrastructure to restore the physical plant and
replace the furnishing and equipment of approximately 625 public basic
education schools located in areas not covered by the first Basic Education
project (326 remaining corregimientos); (b) Educational materials to make
available textbooks and supplementary reading materials to all students
attending public primary and lower secondary schools in corregimientos not
covered by the ongoing Basic Education project; (c) Scholarship program to
finance 926 additional, poverty-based scholarships in the 185 poorest
corregimientos; and 3,647 additional scholarships per year (2,467 in primary
schools and 1,180 in secondary schools) to students selected on the basis of
poverty criteria in the 326 corregimientos not covered by the Basic Education
project; and (d) Pilot project of distance basic education to test the
effectiveness of a distance education model using television to provide lower
secondary education services to children in sparsely populated rural areas
with extreme poverty conditions, who cannot afford to attend secondary schools
in the cities where they exist; (2) Expansion of the non-formal preschool
education program to provide access to the CEFACEI community based preschool
centers to 20,000 additional children, and to provide home-based initial
education program for another 30,000 children; and (3) Institutional
strengthening of the education system to support the government's policy of
educational decentralization through community based regional and local
education boards.
10. Project Cost and Financing. The total project cost has been estimated
at US$78.9 million, to be financed with an IBRD loan of US$50.0 million. The
balance will be covered by counterpart funds from the Government of Panama.
11. Expected benefits. Results of the economic analysis indicate that
overall, the project is economically viable. If the project's full costs are
considered (including capacity building, institutional strengthening, and the
opportunity cost to households of children attending school), the return for
the project as a whole is estimated at 27%. In broad terms, the measurable
benefits from the project are: (i) the improvement in repetition and dropout
rates; (ii) increased coverage of basic education (primary and lower
secondary); (iii) gains from maintaining and expanding the school
infrastructure; (iv) gains from improving equity of government expenditures in
education; and (v) the increase in expected wages of better-educated
individuals. The IRR estimates do not include monetary estimates of non-
pecuniary benefits, such as that basic education helps reduce poverty by
increasing the productivity of the poor, by reducing fertility rates and
improving health. This analysis also excludes the positive externalities that
-3 -



arise from a better educated population and the spillover effects of a project
that by targeting children from low-income families, will positively impact
the population income distribution; or that basic education is critical for
economic growth and poverty reduction.
12. Project Implementation.    The project would be implemented by the
Ministry of Education (ME) under the same institutional and operational
arrangements that have been put in place for implementation of the first basic
education project. Primary administrative responsibility rests with the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) operating under the office of the Minister of
Education. The PCU, which is now in charge of coordinating implementation of
the first basic education project, will also be responsible for follow-up,
monitoring and evaluation of project implementation, and will work in close
coordination with the ME line units responsible for implementation of the
components and with the ME regional offices, to ensure that actions are taken
in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and that project targets of
physical progress are accomplished. Overall responsibility for oversight of
the project will be vested in the Ministry of Education through the Office of
the Director General of Finance and Institutional Development (DGFDI).
13. Sustainability. Sustainability of project investments is primarily
dependent on government ability to finance incremental recurrent costs of new
and expanded educational programs, such as non-formal preschool education and
innovative TV delivery of secondary education in rural areas. Careful
assessment of financial impact of the project on sector budgets has been made
during appraisal, and specific government commitments have been negotiated to
ensure continued financing of incremental recurrent costs. Based on the
percentage impact of the project on the budget of ME, the project will not put
an unfeasible burden on the budget; it should be fairly easy for ME to absorb
the additional expenditure. Sustainability is also dependent on community
ownership of the educational enterprise and willingness to participate in
preventive maintenance of the school buildings and in overall management of
the school operations through the Juntas Regionales and Juntas Escolares. The
social assessment study has helped in identifying relevant stakeholder groups
and modes of their involvement in project preparation and implementation. The
project will help implement the regional and local Juntas with adequate
representation of key elements of the community, and will provide technical
assistance and training to ensure that they gradually and competently assume
responsibility for school governance and the quality of education.
14. Lessons Learned.   [Note:   Lessons learned from completed and ongoing
projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies.][Note:     Lessons
learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and other
development agencies.][Note:    Lessons learned from completed and ongoing
projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies.]Preschool
Education. Research has shown that early educational interventions improve
children's readiness for reading and writing, and reduce repetition and
dropout rates in primary schools. Non-formal approaches make it possible to
provide early educational services to children of rural and poor urban
families and encourage parental involvement in and understanding of better
child rearing practices. A social assessment was completed in early 1998 as
part of project preparation, including an evaluation of the CEFACEI and the
mother-to-mother programs financed by the Bank's first Basic Education project
in Panama. The study showed that parents value their children's achievements
in terms of social behavior, acquisition of learning skills, and the
- 4 -



nutritional cream provided by the center. They also value their own learning
from the parent workshops, which enables them to teach their children.
15. Targeting. Quality inputs such as textbooks and other classroom
educational materials, a stimulating home environment and preschool
educational experiences, have a powerful influence in improving school
performance. However, students in lower income families usually have no
access to quality initial and preschool education programs or to necessary
school materials and texts, and their performance suffers in consequence.
Project interventions to restore equity in access to quality education must be
carefully targeted to effectively provide equal educational opportunities to
those students most in need of assistance.
16. Distance Education for Rural Secondary. In most developing countries,
students completing primary school in rural multigrade classes are often
deprived of the opportunity to attend school for the remaining three grades of
basic education (7-9). Experience has shown that distance education methods
via educational television can effectively provide valid educational
experience to secondary students in remote, isolated rural communities. The
project will pilot adaptation of "telesecundaria" methods and materials
successfully used in Mexico to the realities and conditions of the rural
communities of Panama.
17. Community Participation. Experience has shown that community
involvement in the operation of schools adds an important dimension to the
effectiveness of publicly provided education by mobilizing local support for
the schools and increasing pride in achievement on the part of students and
teachers. In Panama, the Bank has already encouraged parent and community
participation in physical maintenance of schools and in provision of non-
formal preschool education services in rural and marginal urban areas. The
proposed project will go one step further by supporting the establishment of
local and regional Education Boards, which will give legal status to community
participation in the management of schools.
18. Environmental Aspects. The project is rated "C" because it is
expected to have a positive impact on the environment as a result of enhanced
environmental knowledge and practices of students in primary and secondary
schools. Environmental concerns are stressed in the curriculum, and
conservation topics are included in the textbooks to be distributed by the
project.
19. Poverty Category. The project would target investments to provide
improved basic education services to the most destitute groups of Panamanian
society living in indigenous communities, poor rural and marginal urban areas.
It would contribute to correct some of the inequities in social spending,
particularly in educational spending, by focusing investments to benefit the
poor and those groups of the population living in relative isolation and
neglect.
20. Program Objective Category. The proposed project will focus primarily
on alleviating poverty through providing equity of access to quality basic
education, including preschool and initial education, for children of the most
vulnerable population groups not covered by the first Basic Education Project.
It will make textbooks available to all basid education students in public
schools, and will support decentralization with parent and community
- 5 -



participation. It is therefore classified under the Poverty Reduction and
Human Resource Development category.
Contact Points:
Carlos Rojas
Task Manager
(202) 473-6452
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454;
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 17, 1999.
Data are from the LSMS Education Table (Con la lUnea de pobreza general baja).
As mentioned in "Estrategia Decenal..", page 8.
- 6 -



