Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20334-PAN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TN THE AMOUNT OF US$35.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
August 10, 2000
Human and Social Development Group
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 14, 2000)
Currency Unit = Balboa
B/1.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1 = B/1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CEFACEI            Community and Family Center for Initial Education (Centro Familiar y
Comunitario de Educaci6n Inicial)
COPAMACE           Parents Committee to administer the CEFACEI (Comite de Padres y
Madres de Familia Administradores de los CEFACEIs)
DC                 Directorate of Curriculum, MIEDUC (Direcci6n de Curriculum)
DGE                Directorate of General Education, MIEDUC (Direcci6n General de
DGFDI              Educaci6n
Directorate of General Finance and Institutional Development, MIEDUC
DIE                (Direcci6n General de Finanzas y Desarrollo Institucional)
FIS                Direcci6n de Educaci6n Inicial (Initial Education Directorate of MIEDUC)
IED                Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversi6n Social)
GOP                Initial Education Directorate (Direcci6n de Educaci6n Inicial)
IFARHIU            Government of Panama
Institute for Human Resource Development (Instituto Para la Formacion y
LSMS               Aprovechamiento de Recursos Humanos)
MEF                Living Standards Measurement Survey
MIEDUC             Ministry of Economy and Finance
NGO                Ministry of Education
PCU                Non-governmental organization
PRODEI             Project Coordination Unit
TELEBAiSICA        The Mexican non-formal initial education project
UNDP               Distance secondary education by television
United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Carlos Rojas



PANAMA
PA/BASIC EDU II
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1 Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           I1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          16
4. Institutional                                                                      16
5. Environmental                                                                      17
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     20
2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         23
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           62
MAP(S)



PANAMA
PA/BASIC EDU II
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHE
Date: August 10, 2000                            Team Leader: Carlos A. Rojas
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo     Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coll
Project ID: P052021                               Sector(s): EP - Primary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
Z Loan         C Credit        O3 Grant        El Guarantee    13 Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 35.0
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% /0.75%                           %
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign        Total
GOVERNME,NT                                                   24.00           0.00         24.00
IBRD                                                          17.00          18.00         35.00
Total:                                                        41.00          18.00         59.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MIEDUC)
Address: Ave. Justo Arosemena, Calle 27, Edificio Poli, Panama
Contact Person: Lic. Alberto A. Tile P.
Tel: (507) 227-1462               Fax: (507) 227-1473               Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Institute for 1-luman Resource Development (IFARHU)
Estimated disbur ements .Bak FYIUS$M.:
FY          2001        2002         2003       2004        2005
Annual     3.5           7.0        10.5        10.5        3.5
Cumulative     3.5         10.5        21.0        31.5        35.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
CDC PAD on,- R.o M.r-, 20D



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the project are to: a) improve the quality and efficiency of basic education in the country;
b) improve equity of access to preschool, primary and lower secondary education for children in rural and
poor urban areas; c) expand the coverage of preschool and initial education through community-based
non-formal education models; and d) strengthen the planning, supervision, and policy-making capacity of
the Ministry of Education (MIEDUC), by expanding the actions undertaken under the ongoing first Basic
Education Project.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
The key performance indicators will be lower levels of extreme poverty and greater efficiency and higher
completion rates in primary and lower secondary schools. All shanty schools (escuelas ranchos) will be
replaced, 1,515 classrooms will be rehabilitated and 30 Telebasica pilot schools will be operating.
Approximately 240,000 multi-grade students and 40,000 lower secondary students will receive textbooks
and other educational materials. Students in indigenous communities (37,000) will receive bilingual
materials. Community and Family Centers for Initial Education (CEFACEIs will enroll 12,000 new
children, and 6,000 rural parents will be trained by 400 new mother leaders in home-based initial
education.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18421            Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/19/98
The proposed project will support the CAS objectives of (i) poverty reduction and (ii) enhancement of
human resource development. The project aims to correct inequities in social spending by targeting
investrnents in early and basic education and ensuring that educational programs reach the most destitute
groups of Panamanian society many of whom live in conditions of relative isolation and neglect in
indigenous, rural and marginal urban communities. The project will support expansion of initial and
preschool education services to children of poor families who do not have access to early educational
experiences and who often have the greatest difficulties in adjusting, remaining and completing basic
education. By supporting models of non-fornal early childhood interventions and preschool education
which involve the family and the community, the project would increase awareness of child development
needs and foster the creation of an enriched community and home environment for child growth and
development. By supporting institutional development, the project would assist the government to
strengthen its capacity to replicate project activities in other areas and implement its decentralization
strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Equity in access to basic education. While 90 percent of primary school age and 56 percent of secondary
school age children are enrolled in schools, access to school is inequitable across the school-age population.
Inequities in access and completion of primary and basic school are most acute for children living in
indigenous, rural and marginal urban communities. The non-indigenous population completes an average of
four more years of schooling compared to the indigenous population. Among indigenous groups,
Ngobe-Bugle, the largest indigenous community in the country, averages less than three years of schooling.
About 17 percent of indigenous children aged 6-11 are not enrolled in school. In rural areas, children who
- 2 -



complete the first grades of basic education in multigrade schools (1-6) are unable to continue with the
remaining basic grades (7-9) because there are no lower secondary schools in their communities. The
government has requested the Bank's support for a pilot Telebasica project to deliver lower secondary
education through distance education methods to rural communities.
Indigenous population and bilingual education. Indigenous groups comprise approximately 8 percent of
the total population in Panama or about 200,000 people, and are distributed through four of the nine
provinces in about eight different ethnic groups, with relatively heavier concentrations in the regions of Bocas
del Toro and San Blas.
Indigenous groups are among the poorest in the country and have the least access to quality educational
services. A majority of them live in the Western provinces of Bocas del Toro, Chiriqui, Cocle and Veraguas;
about one-third are in the Eastern region of San Blas and the jungles of Darien province, near the Colombian
border; and about 10,000 are reported to live in the cities of Panama and Colon. According to recent data
from the Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS) study (Panama Poverty Assessment. Priorities and
Strategies for Poverty Reduction. The World Bank, April 2000, 1999), 95 percent of the residents of
indigenous areas of the country fall below the poverty line, and 86 percent live in conditions of extreme
poverty, with levels of consumption below the minimum needed to meet the recommended daily caloric
requirements. Poverty in Panama is deepest and most severe in indigenous areas. About 50 percent of
indigenous children under the age of five suffer from malnutrition compared to 16 percent for all Panamanian
children. Although small in absolute numbers, indigenous communities comprise nearly one-fourth of
Panama's poor and one-third of the extreme poor.
Findings from the Poverty Assessment point to the importance of investing in bilingual education and
educational materials for indigenous populations. The study found that language ability, namely Spanish,
appears to be an important determinant of educational attainment. Monolingual indigenous speakers are
among the poorest and average less than one year of schooling. This compares with an. average of 7-9 years
for the bilingual and Spanish speaking ethnic indigenous counterparts. Only half of the monolingual
indigenous speaking children aged 6-11 are currently enrolled in primary schools, thus suggesting an absence
of bilingual services at the primary level. Access to educational materials and textbooks is limited in
indigenous communities. Only 52 percent of indigenous children in primary schools reported having books
compared to 91 percent for the non-indigenous population.
Although the new Education Law of 1995 introduced a provision for bilingual education for indigenous
communities, the Government has not introduced bilingual education programs yet. The Government's
ten-year educational strategy outlines bilingual and inter-cultural education as one of the 25 priority projects
proposed for implementation. As with the first Basic Education project, the second Basic Education project
will assign high priority to investments in localities with a high percentage of indigenous populations.
Moreover, the project will be guided by findings from social assessments that examine the social and cultural
needs of indigenous populations. The social assessment that was conducted as part of the preparation of the
project has already provided the grounds for a more comprehensive discussion of an educational development
plan for that segment of the population and contributed to the design of the project cornponents.
Government Strategy. The Government's ten-year strategy for the education sector, 1997-2006
(Estrategia Decenal de Modernizaci6n de la Educaci6n Panamena 1997-2006, Ministerio de Educaci6n,
Octubre 1996.) recognizes four critical issues that need to be addressed: (i) inequity in access to school,
permanence and continuity for the less privileged groups in rural, indigenous and marginal urban
populations; (ii) poor quality of education reflected in rote learning, irrelevance of the school, poorly
trained teachers, lack of textbooks and dilapidated infrastructure; (iii) obsolescence of the administrative
model characterized by centralized, hierarchical and bureaucratic administration; and (iv) poor distribution
of financial resources, even though educational spending has increased from 5.6 percent to 6.1 percent of
- 3 -



GDP in the last ten years.
Consistent with this assessment of critical issues, the Government's Strategy outlines four major policy
objectives and specifies that actions will be targeted to the poorest population groups and those with the
greatest educational needs.
* Democratization of Education. Ensure equality of access to basic education for all children,
especially the poorest, with quality and excellence comparable to the rest of the country. Provide
regular or non-regular preschool education services for all children, giving highest priority to
indigenous, rural and marginal urban areas.
* Quality Improvement. Disseminate values of a culture of peace and national identity; stress .learning
of science, technology and innovation; provide staff development; promote educational research,
evaluation and innovation; and introduce educational technology and new concepts of educational
supervision.
*   Educational Planning and Modern, Decentralized, Efficient Management. Foster educational
activities at the school level, with autonomy and flexibility for creative participation by educators,
students, families and the community in educational and administrative decisions. Provide professional
incentives to teachers, more time for learning, and rehabilitation and maintenance of school
infrastructure. Currently, the MIEDUC is in the process of analyzing legislation aimed at
strengthening the management of educational services at the provincial and local levels.
*   Expanded participation by the family and community in education. Integrate the educational
community through associations, collaboration centers, councils, boards, committees and other
participation mechanisms. Provide orientation and training to parents in all local communities.
The First Basic Education Project. Through the Basic Education Project approved in 1996, the Bank is
supporting the following activities which address key aspects of the government strategy for the sector:
* Government initiatives to expand coverage of preschool education to rural and marginal urban areas
through the Community and Family Centers for Initial Education (CEFACEI), a community-based
non-formal education model using local promoters and especially designed educational materials in
community-provided facilities;
*   Home-based initial education (Mother-to-Mother) programs, targeted to rural and indigenous
communities, to provide training and educational materials to parents of children under 6 years of age
to improve their child rearing practices and help them guide their children's early mental, physical and
social development;
*   Teacher training activities designed to reach all multigrade teachers in the country;
*   Educational materials support to provide classroom libraries for all multigrade classrooms in the
country, and textbooks for all primary and lower secondary (grades 7-9) students in targeted townships
(corregimientos);
*   Student assessment and an institutional strengthening program aimed at improving the educational
system as a whole;
*   Infrastructure investment to build and rehabilitate primary schools; and
- 4 -



*   Scholarship programs to facilitate access of children from the poorest families to primary and lower
secondary schools. The program is administered by the Institute for Human Resource Development
(IFARHU).
The Government of Panama (GOP), with Bank support through this project, has focused educational
investments in communities with the worst indicators of socioeconomic and educational conditions in an
effort to alleviate poverty by improving the quality and efficiency of basic education. The first project
targeted the 185 poorest corregimientos (out of 510), which included the poorest rural and indigenous
communities. The project is providing institutional strengthening to develop the planning and policy-making
capacity of the MIEDUC, with special emphasis on optimization of intra-sector budget resource allocation.
The preschool and initial education components were designed as pilots to test the functionality and
effectiveness of the models.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The three main sector issues to be addressed by the proposed project include expanding access to
education, improving educational quality; and strengthening organizational and management capacity. The
project will strategically address these issues in the following ways:
Access to Education
*   Focus primarily on reducing poverty by providing equitable access to quality basic education, which
includes pre-school, primary and lower secondary education, for children of the most vulnerable
population groups not fully covered by the first Basic Education Project.
*   Strengthen and expand programs of initial and preschool education to reach children of indigenous
communities and poor rural and marginal urban areas to improve their chances of entering and
completing basic education successfully.
*   Support the introduction of distance education methods (Telebasica) to provide access to lower
secondary education for students in remote rural areas.
Educational Quality
*   Contribute towards the elimination of dilapidated shanty schools (escuelas-ranchos) in poor
communities by providing adequate school buildings with appropriate learning and sanitary conditions.
*  Address the problem of poor educational quality by reinforcing the policy of providing bilingual
materials, school libraries, and other educational materials, to all students in public primary and lower
secondary schools.
Organization and Management
*   Continue supporting MIEDUC in its efforts to: (i) implement a management information system,
including the design and implementation of a financial and administrative information system; and (ii)
establish and implement a National Assessment System aimed at monitoring the quality of student
learning in mathematics and language for third and sixth grade students.
-5 -



* Support Government policies aimed at strengthening the decentralization of administrative and
education activities by providing training and technical assistance to managerial and technical staff at
the central and local levels.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Aniex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicdative           Bank.      % Of
Component                  S,ctor        Costs      % of   financigr  EBank-
_____= =_______  (US$M)l1   iTotal     (US$M)   financing
Component 1: Quality improvement of  Primary                      0.0                  0.0
Basic Education. To enhance the    Education
quality of the teaching/learning
environment in primary and lower
secondary schools of rural and
marginal urban communities.
Subcomponents:
a. Educational Materials. Student  Primary             8.40       14.2      7.80      22.3
textbooks and school libraries, charts,   Education
maps, bilingual textbooks and other
instructional classroom materials and
teacher training for primary and lower
secondary schools in targeted areas.
b. Scholarship Program. About 6,000  Secondary         9.40       15.9      0.00       0.0
poverty-based scholarships per year for  Education
primary and secondary students in
public schools (60 percent for rural and
indigenous students).
c. Pilot Project of Distance Basic  Secondary          4.95        8.4      1.00       2.9
Education (Telebasica). Delivery of    Education
lower secondary education (grades 7-9)
to students in rural areas where no
secondary schools exist.
d. Rehabilitation of educational  Primary             22.20      37.6      19.50      55.7
infrastructure. To replace existing  Education
shanty school buildings (escuelas
ranchos) and accommodate growing
enrollments in primary and lower
secondary schools.
-6 -



Component 2. Expansion of the     Other Education      6.20      10.5      3.10        8.9
Non-Formal Preschool Education
Program. About 600 new community
initial education centers (CEFACEIs)
and 400 home-based initial education
program groups and training of
promoters in rural and marginal urban
areas.
Component 3. Institutional        Other Education      5.20       8.8       1.80       5.1
Strengthening of the Education System.
Support the decentralization process at
the regional and school levels through
training and technical assistance to
decentralized offices of MIEDUC and
for expansion of management
information system and national
assessment system.
Component 4. Project Administration.   Other Education  2.30      3.9       1.80       5.1
Total Pro ect Costs                   58.65      99.4      35.00     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.35       0.6       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   59.00      100.0     35.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Three key education policies will be supported by the project: (a) reallocation of educational investments
to benefit the poor; (b) decentralization; and (c) strengthening the MIEDUC capacity for sector
management. Within this framework, the project will help implement the following education policy
reforms:
i Community-based preschool education. Expansion of preschool education coverage to reach
children in poor rural and marginal urban communities through tested non-formal educational delivery
models with community participation.
* Bilingual intercultural education. Introduction of bilingual teaching methods and educational
materials and appropriate curricula to facilitate literacy and the acquisition of basic educational skills
for children of indigenous communities while preserving their cultural values and identities.
* Distance methods for rural secondary education. Introduction and testing of distance education
methods via television to reach students in remote rural communities who want to enroll in lower
secondary education classes but have no access to secondary schools.
* Decentralization of school and regional education management. Implementation of the new
educational decentralization policy by strengthening the regional education offices of the MIEDUC and
encouraging broader parent and community participation in school decisions.
* Quality improvement of basic education. Provision of quality inputs to enhance educational
effectiveness and student achievement in the poorest communities through school libraries, textbooks
and educational materials, provision of scholarships to promote school attendance and retention, and
-7 -



rehabilitation of physical infrastructure. Establishment and implementation of a National Assessment
System to monitor student learning.
3. Benefits and target population:
*   The project will benefit approximately 280,000 children enrolled in primary and lower secondary
schools. This represents about 60 percent of total enrollment in basic education The target population
for the infrastructure, educational materials and institutional strengthening components will be all the
students in public primary and lower secondary schools in the poorest areas of the country as defined
by the new poverty map developed by Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) with data from the
1998 LSMS study, combined with data on educational deficiencies. Similarly, the target population
for the scholarships and the preschool and initial education component would be selected according to
the same map.
*  Replacement and rehabilitation of physical infrastructure will target priority areas in all districts of the
country, as determined by the school map and inventory of physical infrastructure conditions now
being assembled under the first project. Approximately 1,515 classrooms will be rehabilitated along
with about 318 existing sanitary modules. This will be added to approximately 1,500 classrooms in
the process of rehabilitation under the first project. Additionally, a preventive maintenance system will
be established, with community participation, to cover the approximately 2,592 project classrooms and
special modules.
-   Approximately 12,000 additional preschool-age children in disadvantaged rural communities will
benefit from the expansion of the CEFACEI program which will reach about 600 new community and
family centers. This will raise preschool coverage from 31 percent to 45 percent of the age group 4-5.
A social assessment of the CEFACEI and the initial education programs in the first project has shown
a high degree of participation and acceptance in the rural and marginal urban communities.
*  Another 12,000 children, or 3.8 percent of the population under six years of age, will benefit indirectly
from the targeted expansion of the home-based initial education program to 400 new groups including
400 mothers in small, hard-to-reach rural communities. While the social assessment showed that an
average of 17.4 mothers had enrolled in each group, about 23 percent dropped out before completing
the program due to pressing domestic responsibilities. Participating mothers and mother leaders
acknowledge the value of the program and the benefits obtained from learning new ways of improving
child-rearing, housekeeping, nutritional habits and overall self-esteem. The program will be fine-tuned
based on the lessons learned in the first project. Among the key areas that have been highlighted for
improvements include: fostering active involvement by fathers and other family members; and
strengthening operational coordination with community organizations and programs working on child
health, culture and income generation.
*  Approximately 2,200 children in rural communities, who currently finish primary education in
multigrade schools but do not have access to lower secondary education to complete the basic cycle,
will benefit from the pilot project of Telebdsica. Successful implementation of the pilot could allow
later expansion to increase the coverage of first-cycle secondary education, which now stands at 64
percent.
*  Approximately 280,000 children of lower income families in the poorest districts, including about
37,000 indigenous children, or 60 percent of the student population enrolled in existing public primary
and lower secondary schools, will benefit from access to educational and bilingual materials.
- 8 -



*  The GOP has adopted the targeting methodology successfully applied in the first Basic Education
project, which focuses project investments on the poorest communities and those with significant
indigenous populations. The methodology, which was developed jointly by the GOP and the Bank, is
described in Annex 2.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four years (2001-2005)
Executing agency: Ministry of Education (MIEDUC)
Project Coordination. The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Education (MIEDUC) under
the same institutional and operational arrangements that have been established for implementation of the
first basic education project. Financial and administrative responsibility rests primarily with the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) operating under the office of the Minister of Education. IFAR1[U will be
responsible for implementation of the scholarship component.
The PCU, which is now in charge of coordinating implementation of the First Basic Education project, will
also be responsible for follow-up, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation, and will work in
close coordination with the MIEDUC line units responsible for implementation of the components and with
the MIEDUC regional offices, to ensure that actions are taken in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and project targets of physical progress are accomplished.
Project Implementation Arrangements. Implementation of the infrastructure component, including
identification of school buildings to be replaced and rehabilitated, will be the responsibility of the office of
the Regional Directors of Education of MIEDUC, in coordination with the National Infrastructure
Directorate and the General Directorate of Finance and Institutional Development (DGFDI). It has been
agreed that either an extension of the current agreement between the Ministry of Education and FIS, or a
signed construction implementation agreement between the MIEDUC and another entity acceptable to the
Bank, is required as a condition for effectiveness.
The Initial Education Directorate (IED), under the General Directorate of Education (GDE), will be
responsible for the implementation of the preschool and initial education component, with the support of the
regional offices of the MIEDUC and local community organizations (COPAMACE). Targeted
communities will be selected by the MIEDUC's Initial Education Directorate in accordance with the
national strategy to focus on the most disadvantaged areas which are outlined in the national poverty map.
Cuirriculum design and development of educational materials and promoter manuals will also be the
responsibility of the central IED. The MIEDUC regional offices will be responsible for program
promotion, organization of COPAMACEs and parent groups for initial education, selection and training of
promoters and parent leaders, and day-to-day supervision of educational activities. More specifically,
day-to-day activities will include: administration of program operations, payment of stipends to promoters,
organization of training events and collection of local operational and financial data.
The MIEDUC's Curriculum Directorate (DC), in coordination with the General Directorate of Education
(DGE) will be responsible for the implementation of the educational materials component, including
selection of materials to be distributed to the schools. Implementation and evaluation of the pilot project
for TV secondary education will be conducted by the DGE with the support of the DGFDI and the
MIEDUC regional offices in the selected locations.
The institutional strengthening component will be implemented by DGFDI in collaboration with the
MIEDUC regional offices. The regional office Director will be responsible for the organization and
-9-



logistics of the training program to be conducted under the project. Hiring of international and local
consultants to provide technical assistance and training to the Boards, including preparation of terms of
reference and supervision of the consultants' work, will be done by the office of the DGFDI with assistance
from the PCU.
Project Oversight. A Project Management Committee will perform project oversight functions. The
committee will include the Vice-Minister of Education, the Project Coordinator, the General Director of
Education, and heads of each project implementation unit (initial education, bilingual education, primary
education, Telebasica, evaluation, infrastructure, information systems and Regional Directors).
Counterpart Financing. Project counterpart resources will be required primarily to finance the targeted
IFARHIU scholarships and the incremental recurrent costs associated with hiring additional supervisory
staff, incentives to promoters and local coordinators in the non-formal preschool and initial education
program, additional teachers for the distance education pilot program, maintenance of school infrastructure,
and a portion of school construction costs. It is estimated that annual budget requirements for counterpart
funding will be in the order of US$2.4 million, US$4.8 million, US$7.2 million, US$7.2 million and
US$2.4 million for the years 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.
Procurement Works costing under US$100,000 will be contracted either by the MIEDUC or by an
outside entity selected by the MIEDUC and acceptable to the Bank. For works costing over US$100,000,
contracting will be handled either by the MIEDUC or through an implementation agreement with an outside
agency selected in accordance with Bank approved competitive procedures.
Rehabilitation and replacement of infrastructure costing less than US$50,000 may be carried out under
lump-sum contracts awarded on the basis of not less than three quotations from qualified local contractors,
providing adequate documentation, clear specifications and evaluation procedures, and ensuring
confidentiality of bids. National competitive bidding will be used for contracts for goods up to
US$250,000 and for works up to US$500,000. National shopping procedures will be used for goods
costing less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1,430,000 equivalent. Direct contracting
for textbooks selected by MIEDUC in consultation with the Bank, under contracts estimated to cost
US$4,440,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and for works costing less then US$30,000 in isolated
rural areas where a sufficient number of qualified contractors are not available, may be allowed with the
Bank's prior agreement.
Other procurement of goods and services will be handled by the MIEDUC with assistance from the PCU.
Direct purchase of books on the basis of contracts awarded following competitive procedures under the
ongoing project may be acceptable, provided that it would be the same titles which are not available from
others and that the prices remain competitive. Prices should be the same as those agreed on the original
contract with reasonable adjustments for inflation.
Project Financial Management and Auditing. A project financial management (FM) assessment was
carried out by the Bank's Regional Financial Management Unit (LCOAA). The FM system - which is
currently in place for the First Basic Education Project - meets minimum Bank requirements. However,
some recommendations were made so as to: update the operational and accounting manuals, upgrade the
accounting software, streamline the flow of funds, and enhance the sharing of financial information among
the participating entities. As part of this exercise, an action plan was agreed upon to improve the system,
including capability to produce quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs). Evidence that the financial
management system is in place and operational before the effectiveness date was established as an
effectiveness condition.
Once fully operational, and assuming that other key elements remain in place, the project will be able to
receive loan funds under PMR-based disbursements. This is expected to take place no later than June 30,
- 10-



2001.
Not later than sixty days after effectiveness, an independent audit firm will be contracted to carry out the
Project's yearly audit, in accordance with terms of reference approved by the Bank. As under current
arrangements, the external auditors will perform interim visits on a quarterly basis.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Project implementation will be closely monitored by the
PCU in collaboration with the pertinent line units of the MIEDUC and the Regional Directorates of
Education. In addition, monitoring will be performed through: (a) Bank supervision missions with
intensive implementation support, particularly in year one; (b) annual progress reviews of the annual
project implementation plan to be conducted by the PCU in coordination with the Bank; (c) a
comprehensive mid-term review to be carried out no later than March 31, 2003; (d) beneficiary surveys
and other assessment instruments; (e) an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be prepared jointly
by the GOP and the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the project. A set of monitoring
indicators agreed with the GOP is reflected in the annex of the Implementation Letter.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Non-formal preschool vs. regular Kindergarten. The alternative of extending coverage of traditional
kindergarten education to all 5-year-old children in Panama was considered, and rejected because of the
high unit cost involved in building additional classrooms, hiring and training professional teachers, and
other operational expenses. Also, research findings and recent international experience show that Early
Childhood programs that are non-formal in nature and involve the family have a significant impact on the
children's later achievement and permanence in school.
Massive vs. gradual expansion of non-formal preschool. Massive expansion of the less expensive
non-formnal model with community participation was rejected because of the need to consolidate
institutionalization of the program at the central and regional levels, while building institutional capacity in
the MIEDUC to follow up and promote the program among dispersed rural populations that are difficult to
reach. For this reason, a course of gradual expansion has been chosen, aiming to reach the children in
remote rural localities and marginal urban communities first.
Distance education (Telebasica) vs. traditional secondary schools. An alternative to extend coverage of
secondary education to the rural areas through conventional secondary schools was considered impractical
because dispersed populations make it impossible to assemble enough students and teachers to operate a
school in small localities. Experience in other countries, notably Mexico, has shown that rural secondary
students can be effectively reached with distance education methods via television. Lower secondary
subjects are being taught by one teacher to groups of rural children using content materials transmitted by
TV or recorded on video-cassettes. Students can work at their own pace, and the teacher is available to
provide guidance and monitor progress through quizzes and reviewing exercises. Telebaisica would be
introduced as a pilot project in about 30 rural communities, with technical assistance provided by the
Mexican government to test adaptation of the method to Panamanian conditions. This pilot phase is
considered essential to build institutional capacity and develop appropriate educational materials before the
program can be expanded on a nationwide scale.
Total rehabilitation of school infrastructure vs. gradual approach. Although the need for school
infrastructure rehabilitation is greater than the project will cover, an alternative to undertake all the present
needs of school rehabilitation and repair was rejected because of budget constraints and limited institutional
capacity at the MIEDUC to manage and supervise larger investments in infrastructure. The country's
- 1 1 -



school infrastructure has suffered from lack of adequate resources for maintenance since the early 1980's
and many buildings show structural damage and decayed plumbing and electrical systems which make
school buildings hazardous to students. A conservative approach was selected where rehabilitation and/or
replacement is focused on high priority cases of dilapidated or inadequate school buildings, especially the
shanty schools or escuelas-ranchos, while strengthening overall local community organizations to assume a
more active role in preventive and routine maintenance of the schools.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector issue      VProe                            X(PSR) Ratings
__L_::_____________________________                             j :: j;:0  (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
- Low quality and efficiency of basic   - Basic Education Project       S              S
education, and limited access to
schooling and preschool services for
children of rural and poor urban areas.
- Extensive damage to infrastructure of - Social Investment Fund        S              S
social services due to lack of adequate  Project
maintenance, and need to alleviate
impact of economic adjustment
measures on low income populations.
- Low accessibility of the rural    - Rural Health Project              U              U
population to basic health services and
to preventive health interventions.
- Lack of sustainable productive    - Rural Poverty and Natural         S              S
systems and concentration of poverty in Resources Project
rural areas causing degradation of
natural resources and migration.
Other development agencies
- Low efficiency of school          - IDB Education project
management, inadequate curriculum,
and lack of evaluation of student
achievement.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Preschool Education. Research has shown that early educational interventions improve children's
readiness for reading and writing, and they reduce repetition and dropout rates in primary schools.
Non-formal approaches make it possible to provide early educational services to children of rural and poor
urban families and encourage parental involvement in and understanding of better child rearing practices.
A social assessment was completed in early 1998 as part of project preparation, including an evaluation of
the CEFACEI and the mother-to-mother programs financed by the Bank's first Basic Education project in
Panama. The study showed that the CEFACEIs enroll an average of 17 children per center, of whom about
- 12 -



56 percent are 5-year-old and 44 percent are 4-year-old. Average dropout in 1997 was only 1.8 percent
mainly due to illness or excessive distance from home to center. Parents value their children's achievements
in terms of social behavior, acquisition of learning skills, and the nutritional meal provided by the center.
They also value their own learning from the parent workshops, which enables them to teach their children.
Nearly 50 percent of the centers have active support from local authorities, 67 percent from various
community organizations, 60 percent from the church, and 40 percent from NGOs. There is good parent
participation in the activities of the centers, mainly by mothers, but in about 40 percent of the cases
studied, both parents participate equally.
Targeting. Quality inputs such as textbooks and other classroom educational materials, a stimulating
home environment and preschool educational experiences, have a powerful influence in improving school
performance. However, students in lower income families usually have no access to quality initial- and
preschool education programs or to necessary school materials and texts, and as a consequence their
performance in school is compromised. Project interventions to restore equity in access to quality
education must be carefully targeted to effectively provide equal educational opportunities to those students
most in need of assistance.
Distance Education for Rural Secondary. In most developing countries, students completing primary
school in rural multigrade classes are often deprived of the opportunity to attend school for the remaining
three grades of basic education (7-9). Experience has shown that distance education methods via
educational television can effectively provide valid educational experience to secondary students in remote,
isolated rural communities. The project will pilot adaptation of telesecundaria methods and materials
successfully used in Mexico to the realities and conditions of the rural communities of Panama.
Community Participation. Experience has shown that community involvement in the operation of schools
adds an important dimension to the effectiveness of publicly provided education by mobilizing local support
for the schools and increasing pride in achievement on the part of students and teachers. In Panama, the
Bank has already encouraged parent and community participation in physical maintenance of schools and
in provision of non-formal preschool education services in rural and marginal urban areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government has shown its commitment to the project objectives and components through a number of
specific actions, including the following:
*   Top Ministry officials participated in policy decisions to facilitate implementation of the First Basic
Education Project, as well as in the shaping of strategies for conceptualization and preparation of the
new project proposal. The First Basic Education Project currently under implementation will be
completed ahead of schedule in a highly satisfactory manner.
* The Government issued a 1 0-year Strategy in late 1996 for the Modernization of Education in
Panama, 1997-2006, which emphasizes equity, decentralization, quality improvement and community
participation. It also outlines development goals consistent with project objectives and methods.
*   Both the Ministers of Education and Finance have made formal requests to the Bank stressing the
urgency of the proposed project, and a high ranking officer of the MIEDUC has been designated to lead
the technical group in charge of designing the new project.
*   Local ownership of the project is assured by the fact that Ministry staff responsible for implementation
are also in charge of design and preparation of project components.
*   Stakeholders, including teachers unions, universities, family associations and other community groups,
have been widely consulted in the process of developing major policy proposals for the Education Law
- 13 -



of 1995, and the 10-year Strategy for 1997-2006. Likewise, teachers from all regions have
participated in the selection of textbooks to be purchased by the First Basic Education project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
*   While the identification of the country's educational development needs and subsequent determnination
of project content and project strategies is the result of national analyses and initiatives, the Bank has
brought into the planning dialogue substantial experience on developing education projects with similar
objectives in other Latin American countries and outside the region.
*   The Bank's contribution has been significant in focusing project interventions towards the reduction of
poverty by targeting the most disadvantaged population groups while ensuring maximum efficiency of
educational investrnents. Preparation of the new project builds on the lessons learned during
irnplementation of the previous project, and will contribute to enhancement of the managerial and
planning capabilities of the MIEDUC staff.
*   Design of a non-formal preschool education strategy to provide early educational stimulation to
children in rural and marginal urban areas has drawn on the Bank's extensive experience with early
child development projects in many countries, especially with the highly successful Initial Education
project (PRODEI) in Mexico.
*   Likewise, design and implementation of a distance education model for delivery of secondary education
to children in rural areas will benefit from the Bank's experience with innovative technology solutions
to educational access problems in other countries, notably the Telesecundaria and Teleprimaria
programs in Mexico.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
a Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = 22 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Results indicate that overall, the project is economically viable. The project is viable even when we
consider the full costs of the project (including capacity building, institutional strengthening, and the
opportunity cost to households of children attending school). The estimated rate of return for the project as
a whole is 22 percent.
Component-specific analyses indicate that the Rehabilitation of Infrastructure has the highest economic
return, and that the CEFACEI and Initial Education component have the lowest economic returns. The
internal rate of return (IRR) for the TELEBASICA component, as a whole, is conservatively estimated at
15 percent; for the CEFACEI and Initial Education component, 14 percent; for the educational materials
component, 23 percent; and for the rehabilitation of educational infrastructure, 24 percent.
If one excludes the opportunity costs from this analysis, then the IRR can be estimated at 17 percent for
Telebasica, 15 percent for CEFACEI and Initial Education, 28 percent for the Educational Materials
component, and 30 percent for the rehabilitation of educational infrastructure. The overall IRR in this case
- 14 -



is 26 percent.
If one assumes different case scenarios, namely that GDP would grow at only 1 percent per year in nominal
terms and everything else remains constant, the IRR for the Telebasica component would still be 10
percent, for the CEFACEI and Initial Education component it would be 9 percent, for the Educational
Materials component it would be 16 percent, and for the Rehabilitation of Infrastructure component it
would be 17 percent. With this lower GDP growth rate, the return for the project as a whole is estimated at
15 percent (see Table 4).
It must be noted that the IRR as calculated, should be thought of as lower-bound estimates, as they exclude
many benefits that are difficult or impossible to measure in monetary terms. In particular this benefit-cost
analysis assigns no independent benefits to the Institutional Strengthening component, treating it only as
costs or supporting activities of the other four components.
In broad terms, the measurable benefits from the project are: (i) the improvement in repetition and dropout
rates; (ii) increased coverage of basic education (primary and lower secondary); (iii) gains from
maintaining and expanding the school infrastructure; and (iv) the increase in expected wages of
better-educated individuals. The IRR estimates do not include monetary estimates of non-monetary
benefits, such as, by increasing the productivity of the poor, by reducing fertility rates and improving
health, basic education helps reduce poverty. This analysis also excludes the positive externalities that
arise from a better educated population and the spillover effects of a project that by targeting children from
low-income families, will positively impact the population income distribution; or that basic education is
critical for economic growth and poverty reduction.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
In 1997 the Government budgeted US$512 million, or 10.8 percent of its total budget, for the education
sector. This compares unfavorably with 1990 where 16.3 percent of the total government budget was spent
on education. This corresponds to approximately US$374 per pre-primary and primary student, US$872
per secondary student and US$2,142 per university student.
The tentative project financing plan includes US$23.6 million in Government financing. We applied the
same benchmark hypotheses as in the economic evaluation to estimate the impact of the project on
MIEDUC' s budget. In addition we assumed that the share of the education budget in GDP remains the
same over the years (at roughly 6 percent), implying that the budget also grows at five percent year.
Based on the percentage impact of the project on the budget of MIEDUC, we conclude that the project will
not put an unfeasible burden on the budget and that it should be fairly easy for MIEDUJC to absorb the
additional expenditure. If we look at the impact of the project on the budget of the central government, in
addition to the costs and benefits previously discussed, the central government has an additional gain with
an expected increase in tax receipts. The impact of the project on the budget of the central government is
minimal, reaching a maximum of 0.22 percent.
Fiscal Impact:
The project's incremental recurrent costs correspond to the following: (i) payments to promoters and local
coordinators of the non-formal preschool education program, as well as to supervisory and central level
incremental staff; (ii) scholarships for needy students; (iii) non durable educational materials for the
preschool program; (iv) hiring of teachers for the distance education pilot program; and (v) costs related
- 15 -



to the coordination of project activities and maintenance of office equipment purchased with loan funds.
These will be fully financed by the Government from the beginning of the project. They represent less than
two percent of the Ministry of Education budget and are considered negligible and easily absorbed by the
Government through savings by promoting system efficiency.
3. Technical:
No special technical problems are anticipated in the implementation of this project. Satisfactory technical
capacity already exists in the various operational units of the MIEDUC, and has been reinforced through
implementation of investments under the First Basic Education project. Experience gained in implementing
the quality improvement components and the non-formal preschool education program will be valuable for
the expansion of the same components to other areas and communities.
Lessons learned in the operation of the CEFACEI and the mother-to-mother programs in the field have
been used to introduce adjustments in the design of both models in order to make them more effective and
more relevant to the needs of the communities. The requirement that only mothers participate in the
mother-to-mother program has been dropped, and the name has been changed to Initial Education in the
Home in order to encourage participation by fathers and other members of the family. Likewise, the
conditions for membership in the COPAMACE are currently being reconsidered with a view to allow
broader representation of the community.
The pilot project of distance basic education via television is the one element of the project for which there
is limited previous experience in the MIEDUC. However, technical assistance has been arranged from the
Mexican government, where considerable experience with a similar program has been developed over many
years, and Mexican experts are already working with the MIEDUC in designing the pilot for Panama.
International technical assistance will also be made available by the project for evaluation of the pilot and
for adaptation and development of appropriate educational materials.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MIEDUC, as the agency responsible for project execution, has demonstrated significant institutional
and administrative capacity in implementing the First Basic Education project, and in mobilizing the
technical resources available in all departments of the Ministry, at the central and provincial levels, to
support the educational changes called for by the project. IFARHU, an autonomous government agency
with long experience in human resource development programs, would be responsible for implementing the
Scholarships subcomponent. The MIEDUC has also been successful in motivating the parents and other
community members to participate in the CEFACEI and home based initial education (Mother-to-Mother)
programs. As a consequence, the MILEDUC has formed a strongly committed technical team, and provided
it with competent leadership at the highest administrative level.
4.2 Project management:
A Project Coordination Unit is responsible for all financial, administrative and procurement matters, while
all technical aspects of the project are executed by the corresponding technical units, under the coordination
of the PCU. The project allows for implementation agreements to be entered with other outside agencies
selected in accordance with Bank approved competitive procedures, as necessary to facilitate project
irnplementation. These institutional arrangements will be maintained through the implementation of the
second project.
- 16 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
No special procurement problems are anticipated while implementing the project. Satisfactory technical
capacity already exists in the Project Implementation Unit.
4.4 F inancial management issues:
The project financial management (FM) assessment concluded that the system which is currently in place
for the First Basic Education Project meets minimum Bank requirements. Even so, an action plan was
agreed upon to strengthen and enhance some areas, including capability to produce quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs). The Bank's Regional Financial Management Unit (LCOAA) will follow up
on the implementation of the plan.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is rated C because it is expected to have a positive impact on the environment as a result of
enhanced envirormental knowledge and practices of students in primary and secondary schools.
Environmental concerns are stressed in the curriculum, and environmental conservation topics are included
in the textbooks to be distributed by the project. No resettlement will be involved in school construction,
which will be primarily rehabilitation or replacement of existing classrooms on land owned by the
government and not occupied by population.
5.2 WIhat are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
env ironment? D)o the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The objectives of the social assessment carried out in 1998 were to: (a) evaluate the different activities
related to the First Basic Education Project, in each component and by different social groups and
institutions in the project area; (b) identify the project stakeholders as well as the direct beneficiaries
participating during project preparation and implementation, and obtain their major recommendations
during the design phase; (c) identify the potential negative/positive impact of the proposed activities based
on an evaluation of the CEFACEIs through the analysis of each of their constituent elements, promoters,
parents and COPAMACEs, and of the Mother-to-Mother pilot for the more vulnerable groups, and to
design activities which might help mitigate and overcome such impact; and (d) identify the needs for
increasing the capacity of organized local groups (CEFACEls and Mother to Mother) to plan and execute
- 17 -



activities during project implementation.
The social assessment process included several specific actions aimed at understanding the project activities
and their consequences within the human context. Prominent among these are the evaluations of the
CEFACEI and the Mother to Mother pilot, including: (a) analysis of the major stakeholders and direct
beneficiaries of the project in its area of influence; (b) the consultation-evaluation workshops in the project
area, conducted by the consulting team; (c) participatory diagnostics in communities of the provinces of
Bocas del Toro, Darien and San Bias; (d) an indigenous profile designed within the project area, to prepare
the indigenous development plan in the context of the project; and (e) design of a social communication
program, culturally adapted for the indigenous and non-indigenous population, for the preparation and
implementation phases of the project.
Specific recommendations resulting from the social assessment have been incorporated in the design of
each of the project components, and are included in the full report, in the project files.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participatory Approach    Preparation       Implementation            Operation
Beneficiaries/Community COPAMACES,        COPAMACES,         COPAMACES CEFACEIs,
groups                CEFACEIs. CON,   CEFACEls. CON,   CON, COL
COL                COL
National Government    MIEDUC, MEF,    MEF, COL;             MIEDUC, regions and
FIS, Regions and    MIEDUC, FIS,      Provinces COL, CON
Provinces COL,     Regions and
CON                Provinces CON and
COL
Intermediary NGOs     IS, CON             CON, COL           CON, COL
Academic Institutions    Universidad de   Universidad de     Universidad de Panama, COL
Panama, IS, CON    Panama, COL
Local Government      Municipalities CON  Municipalities CON, Municipalities CON, COL
COL
Other Donors          IDB, IS, CON        IDB, IS            IDB, IS
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or col]aboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Teacher unions, NGOs, universities, parents associations, the church, political parties and other community
organizations have participated in the building of national consensus on general education policy and in
shaping the new General Education Law and the Ten-year Strategy to Modernize Education in Panama.
The project will support key aspects of those education policies. Parents and social promoters
participating in the CEFACEI program have been interviewed by researchers in order to assess their main
- 18-



concerns and needs. The project has been defined by the MIEDUC keeping in mind the activities already
being financed by the Bank and the IDB, in order to avoid duplication of efforts.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The MIEDUC, through its regional offices, will promote community involvement in all project activities
and in the operation and maintenance of schools. Direct participation by parents through management
committees (COPAMACEs) is already key to the operation of the CEFACEIs. Specific modes of
involvement by parents and other community groups include participation in non-formal preschool centers
and home-based initial education groups, as well as in school operation through parent associations, and
responsibility for maintenance of school buildings and grounds.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Primary beneficiaries of the project will be school-age children in low income indigenous, rural and
marginal urban communities who attend primary and secondary schools, as well as those who will
participate in the non-formal preschool and initial education programs, and secondary TV program.
Further direct consultation with groups that would benefit from the project has provided new insights into
community participation potential that has been incorporated in the project design.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicabilt
Z Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01. GP 4.01)           Q Yes Z No
| Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04 GP 4.04)                    Li Yes Z No
Z Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                    LI Yes Z No
N Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          Yes NK No
1 Cultural Property (orN 11.03)                                  a Yes Z_ 1 No
Z Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              _      _     _ Yes n No
Z Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             O Yes Z No
N Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              El Yes __ No
 Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50 CP 7.50)   EL Yes Z No
Z Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            Yes E No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Project investments are targeted primarily to the poor indigenous, rural and urban communities which have
limited access to basic education or have inadequate school facilities and lack qualified teachers and
effective educational materials. Specific project actions to benefit indigenous communities are the
provision of bilingual textbooks, supplementary reading and other educational materials for primary and
preschool students and for adult indigenous parents participating in the home-based initial education
program. Native language speaking indigenous teachers will be trained in the proper use of bilingual
materials and in the techniques of multigrade teaching, which is the most typical characteristic of primary
schools in small, isolated, rural indigenous communities. Dilapidated shanty classrooms (escuelas ranchos
), most of them located in indigenous communities, will be replaced with adequate, pedagogically designed
and equipped educational facilities. A social communication program, culturally adapted for the
indigenous population, has been designed for the preparation and implementation phases of the project.
- 19 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of project investments is primarily dependent on government ability to finance incremental
recurrent costs of new and expanded educational programs, such as non-formnal preschool education and
innovative TV delivery of secondary education in rural areas. Careful assessment of financial impact of
the project on sector budgets has been made during appraisal, and specific governnent commitments have
been negotiated to ensure continued financing of incremental recurrent costs, especially those associated
with the expansion of the CEFACEI and initial education programs, and the Telebasica program.
Sustainability is also dependent on community ownership of the educational enterprise and willingness to
participate in preventive maintenance of the school buildings and in overall management of the school
operations. The social assessment study has helped in identifying relevant stakeholder groups and modes of
their involvement in project preparation and implementation. The project will help strengthen the newly
created regional offices of the MIEDUC, and will provide technical assistance and training to ensure that
they gradually and competently assume responsibility for school governance and the quality of education.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Unavailability of adequate and timely       S        - Financial impact assessment and clear
budget resources to finance project                  commitment from government
counterpart investments and incremental              Loan Agreement includes provisions with regard
recurrent costs                                      to the obligation of the Borrower to provide
sufficient counterpart funds in a timely manner
as well as the obligation to operate a revolving
fund with at least $250,000 in counterpart
funds.
- Lack of support and commitment from      N         - Participatory nature of project design and
MIEDUC to carry out the program                      preparation ensures MIEDUC ownership and
commitment.
- Lack of interest and motivation on the   N         - Promotion and information campaigns will be
part of parents and community for active,            directed at parents and community. Maintenance
meaningful participation in school                   training will be provided to groups of parents of
activities and maintenance of school                 schools rehabilitated.
buildings
- Lack of local technical expertise to     M         - Technical assistance has been arranged with
follow up and evaluate Telebasica pilot              experienced Mexican govermnent experts.
From Components to Outputs
- Lack of objective criteria to identify and  M      - Training in the use of poverty map for
select targeted communities                          targeting.
- Lack of highly qualified human            S        - Permanent on-the-job training.
resources to execute project components
- 20 -



- Weak technical capacity of MIEDUC        M         - Technical consultants will be hired to
to define and cost infrastructure                    reinforce MIEDUC staff.
rehabilitation needs
- Lack of interest and motivation in local  M        - Social assessment and project preparation
groups for participation in training                 activities have emphasized involvement by
workshops                                            community groups in project design.
- Lack of technical expertise in MIEDUC    M         - Technical assistance will be provided to
to organize training for regional                    design training program.
decentralized offices
- Lack of appropriate training materials   M         - Technical assistance will be provided to
for education board members workshops                develop materials.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Borrower has issued a Project Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank.
*   The Borrower has provided evidence that continued operation of the PCU has been authorized by the
MIEDUC for the period of project implementation.
*   The Borrower has provided evidence that operation of the revolving fund has been extended, to be
administered by the MIEDUC, with not less than the equivalent of US$250,000 to finance the
counterpart portion of the costs of project implementation.
*   The IFARHU Agreement has been signed with IFARHU, and a Construction Implementation
Agreement has been signed with either the Social Investment Fund (FIS) or another entity acceptable to
the Bank.
* The Borrower has provided evidence that the financial management system is in place and is
operational
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Monitoring, Review and Reporting:
*   The Borrower has agreed with the Bank on a procurement plan for the four-year life of the project,
satisfactory to the Bank.
*   The MIEDUC will prepare and present to the Bank, no later than 30 days after the conclusion of each
calendar year, annual reports of implementation progress.
- 21 -



*   The MIEDUC, jointly with the Bank, will conduct annual reviews not later than March 31 of each
year, starting in the year 2002.
Financial:
*   The MIEDUC will provide evidence by January 31 of every year, beginning in 2001 until project
completion, that enough resources have been allocated in the annual budget to cover all requirements of
Project counterpart funding for the year in question, including the IFARHU scholarships.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready fof the start
of project implementation.
LX 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
l 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Carlos A. Rojas                   Xa ier E. Coll                    D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 22 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PANAMA: PA/BASIC EDU II
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction          Lower levels of extreme   Analysis of national economic Project reaches targeted
poverty                    statistics                 areas successfully.
Enhancement of human       Greater efficiency of      Analysis of education      Project is implemented
resource development.      primary and secondary      statistics.                successfully.
schools.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. To improve quality and  1.1 Greater efficiency and  - Education statistics.   - Adequate utilization of new
efficiency of basic education.  higher completion rates in _Project monitoring reports. educational materials in
primary and lower                              .  schools.
secondary schools.
1.2 Thirty Telebasica pilots
are operational.
1.3 Approximately, 240,000
multigrade students and
40,000 lower secondary
students receive textbooks
and other educational
materials.
1.4 Some 37,000 students in
indigenous communities
receive bilingual
materials.
1.5 School infrastructure
improved and learning
environment enhanced in
targeted schools in
disadvantaged areas.
2. To improve equity of    2.1 CEFACEIs and home-   Project monitoring reports.   - Good response and
access to preschool and basic    based initial education                         participation by parents and
education.                   expanded in rural and                               community.
marginal urban areas to
12,000 children and 6,000
parents.
3. To expand coverage of    3.1 Fify-four percent of age   Education statistics.  - Continued commitment from
preschool and initial      cohort 4 - 5 years enrolled in                        MIEDUC to support program.
education.                 preschool.
4. To strengthen the       4.1 Regional offices operating Project monitoring reports.   - Support from MIEDUC to
planning, supervision and  and trained in all regions.                           advance administrative
policy-making capacity of the                                                    decentralization.
MIEDUC.
- 23 -



2     ~Key 'Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives                t&'E'i                     Evaluation    CriticalAssumptis
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
I. Quality improvement
1. Educational materials  1.1 Guides for math, science, Project reports.        Support from MIEDUC to
provided to schools.       language and social studies                             carry on program.
provided to 240,000
multigrade students and
teachers.
1.2 Library packages
(non-printed materials and
library books) acquired and
distributed to approximately
4,200 multigrade classrooms.
1.3 Didactic materials
distributed to 40,000 lower
secondary students and
teachers in poor districts.
1.4 Teachers training
completed for 4,130 teachers
in the use of didactic
materials.
1.5 Bilingual materials
distributed to 37,000 students.
2. Scholarship program is    2.1 Poverty-based scholarships Project reports.    Support from MIEDUC to
established and reaches   are provided to 6,000 primary                         carry on program.
students in need.         and secondary students in
public schools with 60%
allocated to rural and
indigenous students.
3. Equity of Access. Telebdsica 3.1 Thirty pilot rural schools  Project reports.  Availability of technical
established and evaluated.    implementing Telebdsica by                        expertise to follow-up and
the year 2001.                                        evaluate pilot.
3.2 Evaluation report for
pilots produced.
4. Better school infrastructure 4.1 All shanty schools  MIEDUC, Division of     Adequate and timely resources
and a more adequate teaching/ (escuelas ranchos) replaced.  Infrastructure Statistics.  available.
learning environment      4.2 Approximately 336
available in schools of   schools identified and     Project reports.
disadvantaged areas.      contracts for construction/
rehabilitation awarded. New
classrooms built and equipped.
4.3 Rehabilitaiton completed
for 1,515 classrooms.
- 24 -



II. Expansion of Non-formal
Preschool Education.      1.1 Thirteen training
1. CEFACEls and           workshops for central staff    MIEDUC Division of     Support and commitment
home-based initial education  and for provincial staff  Infrastructure Statistics.  from MIEDUC to implement
programs are expanded in    provided.                                          the program.
targeted areas.            1.2 Workshops (240) for    Project reports.
promoters and local
coordinators provided.
1.3 Workshops (1,240) for
COPAMACE provided.
1.4 Six hundred new
CEFACEIs established by the
end of the project.
1.5 Four hundred home-based
initial education programs
established by the end of the
project.
1.6 Approximately 12,000
new children enrolled in
CEFACEIs by the end of the
project.
1.7 Four hundred new
"mothers" training
approximately 6,000 rural
parents. 12,000 additional
children benefited by the
project.
2. Educational materials for   2.1 CEFACEIs (600) receive  Project reports.
new CEFACEIs are provided  updated version of education
and home-based initial    materials.
education programs are    2.2 Home-based initial
operating.                education groups (400) receive
updated version of education
.... materials by EOP. _ . __...._2_
- 25 -



III. Institutional
Strengthening
1. Regional offices of the  1. I By the end of the project, Project monitoring reports.   Key stakeholders interested
MIEDUC are established and  all regional education staff                          and motivated.
trained, and relevant central
operating.                 level staff trained.
1.2 Workshops for teachers
provided.
1.3 Workshops for school
principals and supervisors
provided.
1.4 Human resources MIS
subsystem implemented
1.5 Financial MIS subsystem
implemented
1.6 Administration MIS
subsystem implemented
1.7 Statistics MIS subsystem
implemented.
IV. Project Administration   All PCU staff trained     Project monitoring reports.    MIEDUC management
support
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
I. Quality improvement     US$44.95 million            Project reports.           Timely selection of experts to
1. Selection of titles,                                                           assess and cost rehabilitation
purchase and distribution of                                                      needs.
school library packages.
2. Scholarship program                                                            Ministry provides funding for
selection criteria established.                                                   scholarships.
3. Equity of Access, selection
of targeted schools to
implement Telebdsica pilot
project.
4. Identification of schools in
need of reconstruction or
rehabilitation.
5. Construction/rehabilitation
of selected schools.
II. Expansion of Non-formal US$6.20 million            Project monitoring reports.    Staff fully qualified to conduct
Preschool Education                                                               provincial and local training.
1. Education training                                  Statistics from MIEDUC.
workshops for central,
provincial and local staff on
CEFACEI and home-based
initial education programs.
- 26 -



2. Technical assistance to                                                          Availability of qualified
revise and/or develop                                                               expertise to cany out the
educational materials for                                                           component.
preschool education.
3. Identification of                                                                Communities interested and
communities targeted for                                                            motivated and staff at the
CEFACEI and home-based                                                              central and provincial level
initial education programs.                                                         well trained to select targeted
communities.
III. Institutional
Strengthening               US$5.20 million             Project monitoring reports.    Regional staff interested and
1. Technical assistance for                                                         motivated.
designing the training                                                              Appropriate materials
program to strengthen the                                                            developed to meet participant
Regional offices of the                                                             needs.
MIEDUC.
2. Training workshops for
Regional offices of the
MIEDUC and for local staff
(supervisors, teachers, school
principals).
IV. Project Administration   US$2.30 million
Front-End Fee               US$0.35 million
TOTAL                       US$59.00 million
- 27 -



Annex 2: Project Description
PANAMA: PAIBASIC EDU 11
The project will expand the actions undertaken by the ongoing First Basic Education Project in targeted
poor areas and communities, which were not covered by the first project. The objectives of the project are
to: a) improve the quality and efficiency of basic education in the country; b) improve equity of access to
basic education, including preschool, primary and lower secondary education for children in rural and poor
urban areas; c) expand the coverage of preschool and initial education through community-based
non-formal education models; and d) strengthen the planning, supervision, and policy-making capacity of
the MIEDUC. By supporting models of non-formal early childhood interventions and preschool education
which involve the family and the community, the project would contribute to increased awareness of child
development needs and foster the creation of a better community and home environment for child growth
and development.
The project consists of three components: (1) Quality improvement of basic education, with three
sub-components: (a) Educational materials, (b) Pilot project of distance basic education, and (c)
Rehabilitation of educational infrastructure; (2) Expansion of the non-formal preschool education program;
and (3) Institutional strengthening of the education system.
Project Targeting:
The project aims to correct inequities in social spending by targeting investments in early and basic
education and ensuring educational programs reach the most destitute groups of Panamanian society many
of whom live in conditions of relative isolation and neglect in indigenous, rural and marginal urban
communities. The project will support expansion of initial and preschool education services to children of
poor families who do not have access to early educational experiences and who often have the greatest
difficulties in adjusting, remaining and completing primary and basic education.
In 1998, GOP carried out a Poverty Assessment study using the Living Standards and Measurement
Survey (LSMS) and its results have been presented and widely discussed especially within the social
sectors. (Panama. Poverty Assessment. Priorities and Strategies for Poverty Reduction. The World Bank,
April 2000, 1999.) Results from the study were also used to develop a poverty map of Panama, which will
guide the targeting of project investments.
The First Basic Education Project was targeted using a poverty index which was a composite of indicators
of educational, housing and nutrition indicators, weighted by indigenous population and number of school
age children, resulting in the ranking of all the corregimientos in the country from the poorest to the least
poor. The project focused on infrastructure and scholarship investments in the 185 poorest corregimientos,
covering poor, rural and indigenous communities, as well as many of the low-income subdivisions of the
major cities.
The proposed Second Basic Education Project will use the recently-developed poverty map to target
interventions. The project will gradually extend the preschool and initial education programs to additional
communities. The second project will also support school rehabilitation efforts in all of the classrooms that
show severe conditions of physical decay.
Expansion of the CEFACEI and home-based initial education programs will target primarily the poorest
- 28 -



areas of indigenous and rural populations as identified by the new poverty map.
The pilot centers for distance basic education (Telebasica) will be targeted to rural districts where there are
no secondary education facilities for students finishing primary school.
Poverty-based scholarships will individually support children of poor families, selected on the basis of the
poverty map and socioeconomic criteria defined by IFARHU, as well as graduating primary school
children in the poorest townships in the country. Approximately 6,000 scholarships will be given
annually.
The educational materials component will complement the actions initiated by the First Basic Education
Project by making didactic materials and classroom libraries available to all primary multigrade and
bilingual school students.
Targeting of the infrastructure component will focus on rehabilitation of badly deteriorated existing
classrooms and sanitary facilities, especially in rural and marginal urban areas, and replacing improvised,
inadequate primary school facilities in remote rural locations (shanty schools or escuelas-ranchos) with
more educationally appropriate and safer school buildings. Selection criteria would be based primarily on
the dilapidated condition of school buildings and the assessed risk to the safety and health of students.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$44.95 million
(total cost of component, including contingencies)
Sub-component (a). Educational Materials. The purpose of this sub-component is to make available
didactic materials and supplementary reading materials to all students attending public primary multigrade,
bilingual and lower secondary schools. The Ministry of Education has determined that children in these
communities do not have access to textbooks or other reading materials because their families usually
cannot purchase them. On the other hand, studies in various countries have shown that availability of
reading materials have significant effects on students' motivation and on the efficiency and organization of
class work, and that their use produces important gains in academic performance.
The First Basic Education project currently under implementation provided textbooks in the core subjects
of Mathematics, Spanish, Natural Sciences and Social Studies to 250,000 students, including all
multigrade classes in the country and all students in primary and lower secondary schools of the poorest
185 corregimientos, representing 58.2 percent of the total student population. Additionally, the project
provided those schools with 4,841 classroom and school libraries.
The sub-component will complement actions taken by the First Basic Education Project. It will target
public primary (multigrade and bilingual) and lower secondary (grades 7-9) schools, a total of about
280,000 students. The project will distribute student guides in the areas of Mathematics, Language,
Sciences and Social studies to all 240,000 multigrade students. It will also distribute other didactic
materials (non-printed materials and library books) to primary and lower secondary students in targeted
regions/schools. The project will also support development, printing and distribution of bilingual
education materials for approximately 37,000 primary education students. About 5,200 primary and lower
secondary teachers will be trained in the proper use of the student guides, teacher guides and in techniques
for promoting voluntary reading among students.
- 29 -



Books in the school libraries will belong to the school; however, students will be allowed to borrow them
during class and for home use to support homework or recreational and reinforcement reading. This is
expected to foster reading habits and help develop permanent reading capacities in basic education
students.
Sub-component (b). Scholarship Program. The Government of Panama maintains a system of
scholarships to encourage attendance in primary and secondary schools for children of low income families
in indigenous, rural and marginal urban communities. The scholarships are administered by IFARITU, a
semi-autonomous government agency. As part of the First Basic Education Project, IFARHU agreed to
target 800 scholarships per year to graduating primary students in the 185 poorest corregimientos in the
country, to make it possible for them to enroll in secondary schools, and to grant 2,700 new scholarships to
primary school students in the same areas. The scholarships included in the first project represent 48
percent of all scholarships granted by IFARHU in the country.
This sub-component will finance about 6,000 additional scholarships per year to students selected on the
basis of poverty criteria and to graduating primary school students in the poorest districts including
students living in areas of extreme poverty, in indigenous communities, and other students needing
economic assistance to enable them to continue studies in lower secondary schools. The cost of the
scholarships is US$350 per year for secondary education and US$300 per year for primary education, and
each scholarship lasts for three school years. The scholarships included in the project will be financed
entirely with project counterpart funds.
Sub-component (c). Pilot Project of Distance Basic Education (Telebasica). The purpose of this
sub-component is to test the effectiveness of a distance education model using television to provide lower
secondary education services to children in sparsely populated rural areas with extreme poverty conditions,
who cannot afford to attend secondary schools in other cities or towns. About 1,819 primary schools, or
65 percent of all primary schools in the country, are in locations considered remote and with dispersed
populations, where traditional secondary schools cannot be established because of the small number of
potential students. It is estimated that about 13,000 students complete the primary grades in these remote
schools, and few of them enroll in the lower secondary grades.
In 1996, the Governments of Panama and all Central American countries signed an agreement with the
Government of Mexico to cooperate in adapting to each national situation the Mexican distance education
model known as "Telesecundaria". The resulting model, Telebasica de Panama, was introduced officially
as part of the Panamanian formal education system by Presidential Decree on March 5, 1997. The model
is to operate as an experimental project under the General Directorate of Education, to be later transferred
to the National Directorate of General Basic Education. The school year and the curriculum are the same
as for all public schools in Panama, and students receive a Completion Certificate upon termination of the
program.
The project will install 30 Telebdsica Centers, with a maximum of 3 classrooms each, attached to selected
primary schools in rural communities of the 13 school regions. Classrooms will be especially designed for
the educational model using television and independent study, and will be equipped with TV viewing and
recording equipment, in addition to conventional classroom furniture, a school library and video collection
of all the educational programs used for the lower secondary school curriculum.
Each classroom will enroll from 10 to 30 students and there will be one teacher per classroom, plus one per
center for social area subjects. Teachers will be required to live in the community and engage the
community in school activities. Textbooks and learning guides will be distributed to all students. Initially
- 30 -



textbooks will be provided by the Mexican government as part of their technical cooperation. These
textbooks will be revised by teams of Panamanian specialists, who will also prepare television scripts to be
produced by Channel 11, the educational TV channel.
Training for Telebasica teachers will be provided by the Ministry of Education using training manuals
produced according to models supplied by the Mexican technical cooperation. Supervision will be the
responsibility of Regional Education Supervisors, who will also participate in training courses to become
familiar with the operation of the distance education model. Evaluation of the experimental project will be
conducted annually with participation by students, parents, teachers, supervisors, and regional and national
coordinators. Two evaluation meetings will be held in each region, and one summary meeting at the end of
the year will determine any changes or adjustments necessary to better adapt the model to local conditions.
Sub-component (d). Rehabilitation of Educational Infrastructure. The objective of this sub-component
is to restore the physical plant and replace the furnishing and equipment of approximately 267 public basic
education schools, which have been assigned high priority because of significant structural damage, or
decayed plumbing and electrical wiring. Many school buildings in rural and marginal urban areas are
shanty schools or escuelas-ranchos, precarious shacks in dilapidated condition that are inadequate for any
educational function and pose health and safety risks to students and teachers. The project will address a
priority of the present government policy for the education sector, which is the elimination of the
escuelas-ranchos and their replacement with appropriate, sanitary school facilities. Rehabilitation involves
either major repairs of schools that are structurally sound or total replacement of dilapidated, unsafe
classrooms with newly built, appropriately designed schools including sanitary services.
The project will finance replacement and furnishing of about 336 existing decrepit classrooms (including all
the escuelas ranchos) or to accommodate growing enrollments in the targeted areas. It will also include
rehabilitation or physical improvement of 1,515 structurally sound classrooms in need of some type of
repair or adaptation to prevailing weather conditions. Additionally, the project will finance construction of
approximately 165 new "special modules", mainly sanitary services, and the rehabilitation of some 318
existing sanitary modules. In addition, the project will finance classroom furniture for about 4,000
multigrade classrooms.
The 267 schools included in the project will be added to the preventive maintenance program already
established under the First Basic Education Project. The maintenance program is implemented through
parent associations using resources transferred by the MIEDUC. Local groups will be provided with
illustrated manuals and given training and encouragement to perform their preventive maintenance
responsibilities. A pilot maintenance plan went into effect in May, 1998 under the first project in 15
selected schools distributed throughout the country. Evaluation of the pilot will be conducted at the end of
2001. The program will then be gradually expanded to cover all public schools in the country. Funds will
be provided by the MIEDUC, using national counterpart resources, at an annual rate of $154 per
classroom for civil works and furniture, and it is expected that the allocation will reach approximately
US$400,000 per year at the end of the project, and an aggregate amount of US$1.1 million in the four
years of the project.
Implementation of the infrastructure component, including identification of school buildings to be
rehabilitated, will be the responsibility of the office of the Director of the Infrastructure Division of
MIEDUC. Contracting for civil works will be done by either the MIEDUC or an outside entity selected by
the MIEDUC and acceptable to the Bank, depending primarily upon the size of each individual school
project. For this purpose the MIEDUC may enter into an administration agreement with an outside agency
selected in accordance with Bank approved competitive procedures to manage the bidding processes and
- 31 -



payments to contractors.
Works costing under US$100,000 will be contracted either directly by the MNIEDUC or through a
construction implementation entity contracted by the MIEDUC and acceptable to the Bank. For works
costing over US$ 100,000, contracting will be handled either directly by the MIEDUC or through
implementation agreement with an outside agency selected in accordance with Bank approved competitive
procedures.
Rehabilitation and construction of infrastructure costing up to US$250,000 may be carried under
lump-sum contracts awarded on the basis of not less than three quotations from qualified local contractors,
providing adequate documentation, clear specifications and evaluation procedures, and ensuring
confidentiality of bids. Public bidding will be used for contracts over US$250,000, and price comparison
for contracts between US$50,000 and US$250,000. Direct contracting for works costing less then
US$50,000 may be allowed only in exceptional circumstances when a sufficient number of qualified
contractors are not available in the region where the works are implemented.
Project Component 2 - US$6.20 million
(total cost of component, including contingencies).
Expansion of the Non-formal Preschool Education Program
Objective. The purpose of the project is to provide access to preschool and initial educational services for
children of lower income families in rural and marginal urban areas. The project will build upon the
experience of the First Basic Education Project where a small scale program was included and tested on a
pilot basis. Preschool education gives children under six years of age the opportunity to participate in
activities that foster the development of their psychological, motor, social and intellectual abilities and of
the basic skills that will be required for success in school.
Research and recent international experience has shown that early stimulation and properly guided
educational experiences have a positive effect on a child's performance in primary school, on his or her
readiness to learn to read and write, and on the child's probabilities of successfully completing primary
school. Children who have not had the benefit of initial or preschool education are more likely to fail in
school, enroll late, repeat grades and eventually drop out before completing the basic cycle. High rates of
school repetition and dropout are therefore more frequent in areas of extreme poverty where no access to
preschool services is available. The project targets children of poor, indigenous communities, and those
living in remote areas that are difficult to access.
Background. Preschool education is offered to Panamanian children four and five years old in
pre-Kindergarten and Kindergarten classrooms, generally attached to primary schools. About 30,700
children, or 47.3 percent of the five-year-old population, are enrolled in Kindergarten classes. An
additional 9,000 children are enrolled in pre-Kindergarten classes, representing 15 percent of the
four-year-old population. Together, all preschool classes enroll 31 percent of the age group 4-5.
The CEFACEI program. The Family and Community Centers for Initial Education (CEFACEI) are
designed to provide pre-primary education to groups of 15 to 25 children in indigenous, rural and marginal
urban communities. A community educator (promotora) who may or may not be trained as a teacher is
responsible for teaching the children with assistance of educational materials provided by the Ministry of
Education. The Ministry also provides special training to the promoters and educational supervision of
- 32 -



their work. The centers operate in facilities made available by the community.
Initia]lly, about 35 CEFACEIs were established during the late 1980s and early 1990s in communities
where the parents could pay a small stipend to compensate the promotora. Through the First Basic
Education Project, the Bank financed an expansion of the program to 400 new CEFACEIs as a pilot
program. The project tested acceptance of the CEFACEI model by parents in poor rural and marginal
urban communities, and its operational feasibility on a larger scale with volunteer community educators
who are not paid a salary but receive a modest financial incentive from the MIEDUC. Quality
improvements were also introduced through newly designed educational materials, manuals for educators
and parents, more intensive educational supervision, and a training program involving community
educators and supervisors at the national, provincial and local levels. By December 1999, 250 preschool
centers were already in operation.
The program operates in a classroom provided by either the local government, a community organization or
a school. The comnmunity is actively involved through the Parents' Association (COPAMACE, Comite de
Padres y Madres Administradores del CEFACEI), which is responsible for finding a place for the
CEFACEI to operate, selecting the promotora and handling the quarterly payments of incentives with
funds transferred from the MIEDUC, in addition to supporting the promotora and collaborating in her
work. Promoters are paid at the rate of US$40 per child per year. Parents of participating children meet
with the promoter regularly every other week to discuss topics related to the child's development and the
role of parents in stimulating their educational readiness through home activities and appropriate parenting
practices. Special promoter manuals and parent-oriented educational materials are provided by the
MIEDUC for these parent meetings. The project includes radio programs to reinforce the training given to
parents and promoters and to encourage healthy child rearing practices.
Though project implementation is not complete, the program has been well received in the communities
where it is operating, and has stirred interest and expectation in other communities. The social assessment
completed in early 1998 evaluated the CEFACEI and the mother-to-mother programs. The assessment
showed that CEFACEIs enroll an average of 17 children per center, about 56 percent of the children
enrolled are 5-years-old, 44 percent are 4-years-old, and only about 1.8 percent dropped out in the last year
due to illness or excessive distance from home to center. The study also found that parents value their
children's achievements in social behavior, acquisition of learning skills, as well as the nutritional meal
provided by the center. They also value their own learning from the parent workshops, which enables them
to teach their children. Nearly 50 percent of the centers have active support from local authorities, 67
percent from various community organizations, 60 percent from the church, and 40 percent from NGOs.
There is good parent participation in the activities of the centers, mainly by mothers, but in about 40
percent of the cases studied both parents participate equally. The MIEDUC is confident that gradual
expansion is justified at this time to strengthen the institutional arrangements which have been developed
for the program at the central and regional levels, and to take advantage of the momentum that has been
generated. The project will finance the establishment and operation of about 600 additional community
preschool education centers in the targeted areas and provide in service training and technical assistance to
the promoters and to members of the COPAMACEs..
The [ome-Based Initial Education (Mother-to-Mother) Program. Another way of providing
educational stimulation to children under six years of age is to train their parents in better methods of child
rearing and enhance their skills to guid their children through appropriate educational and developmental
activities as they grow up. This indirect approach to early childhood education has been found very
effective in other Bank financed projects, such as the Mexico Initial Education Program (PRODEI).
- 33 -



Parents are the first educators and their behavior toward their children has a powerful influence in helping
their children's mental and social development in the crucial early years.
The initial education program has been designed in Panama to reach the children in remote localities with
scattered populations, not easily accessible to regular preschool education programs or CEFACEI. The
program consists of a group of about fifteen parents or other family members working under the guidance
of a parent leader (most frequently a mother, like the majority of program participants) selected by the
community and trained by the MIEDUC project staff. The group meets about once every two weeks for
two periods of ten months each to receive instruction in a series of thematic units covering different aspects
of child development and child rearing practices. Participants are provided with a set of manuals
summarizing the contents of the units, which they can take home and use as references and guidebooks.
They discuss their own experiences, compare them with the recommendations of the manuals, and talk
about how their habits and practices have changed as they get to understand their children better.
Parent leaders are trained through a five-day initial workshop and four follow-up three-day workshops over
the period of two years that their work with the group lasts. Their training includes skills in group
dynamics, recognizing the characteristics of childhood in the rural communities where they reside, and the
contents and mode of operation of the program, as well as the materials they will be working with. It also
includes strategies for working with the families and communities in the Family Orientation Program. A
program supervisor is assigned by the MIEDUC to each group of about twenty parent leaders, and is
responsible for the training of the parent leaders for periodic monitoring of the progress of each group of
parents and for mobilizing the community to support the program. Supervisors are salaried staff of the
MIEDUC, and they in turn are trained in two ten-day courses at the start of the first and second years of
the program.
Parent leaders are paid a stipend of US$50 per year for each participating parent in their group. The first
Bank-financed Basic Education project started the Mother-to-Mother program with a total of about 120
groups, as a pilot program focused on the predominantly indigenous populations in the provinces of
Chiriqui and Veraguas. Educational materials have been developed and distributed to participating parents
and parent leaders and are being evaluated during implementation. Early experiences suggest that it will be
necessary to introduce some materials in indigenous languages for use by participants who do not speak
Spanish.
The proposed project will study the possibility of producing and testing indigenous language materials. It
will also introduce adjustments in operational procedures in order to ensure that fathers and other family
members, as well as other members of the community, become involved in the program. The project will
finance gradual expansion of the program to about 400 additional groups in rural and marginal urban
areas, including indigenous areas and provide in-service training and technical support and educational
materials to the parent leaders and supervisors. It will also include revision of the printed educational
materials and training of central and provincial technical teams. Currently, financial management is
centralized and payments are made to educators by the central level. As the project develops, and the
system becomes too cumbersome to be managed centrally, operational responsibility will be gradually
transferred to regional offices of the M:IEDUC with the support of local community groups such as
COPAMACEs and only coordination and policy functions will be retained at the central level.
Implementation. The Directorate for Initial Education (DIE), under the General Directorate of Education,
is responsible for implementation of the Preschool and Initial Education component, including the training
of parent leaders and supervisors, with the support of the regional offices of the MIEDUC and local
community organizations (COPAMACE). Targeted communities will be selected by the MIEDUC initial
- 34 -



education directorate based on the poverty map. Curriculum design and development of educational
materials and promoter manuals will also be the responsibility of the DIE. Promotion of the program,
organization of the COPAMACE and the parent groups for initial education, selection and training of the
promoters and parent leaders, and day-to-day supervision of the educational activities will be the
responsibility of the MIEDUC regional offices, as well as administration of program operations, payment
of stipends to promoters, organization of training events and collection of local operational and financial
data.
To refine the design of the preschool and initial education component and to ensure successful
implementation, training visits were made during the second half of 1998 by a group of about 25
Panamanian educators to the CINDE program in Colombia, and another group of 7 to the PRODEI
program in Mexico, to study the structure and operation of those programs. An intensive four-week
program will take place to revise the materials according to the criteria already developed and to define the
monitoring and supervision system, to have them in place when the implementation of the project begins.
The MIEDUC will revise the educational materials currently being used for the CEFACEI and the Home
Based Initial Education programs, and will seek to establish coordination mechanisms and clarify the
respective roles of the MIEDUC and the Ministry of the Family, Childhood and Youth in early childhood
education.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.20 million
(total cost of component, including contingencies).
Institutional Strengthening of the Education System
The main objective of this component is to support the government policy to decentralize educational
planning and decision making to the regional and local levels and to expand community participation in the
management of schools. The philosophy and mechanisms to implement this policy are spelled out in the
Ten-year Strategy for Modernization of Education in Panama 1997-2006, published by the MIEDUC in
October, 1996.
Educational regions were created by Presidential decree on September 4, 1997 for the purpose of
decentralizing educational administration and promoting greater efficiency in educational decision-making.
Each region corresponds to a province, which is the major political division of the country, except that the
province of Panama is divided into four regions because of its size. An additional region covers the area of
San Blas, a predominantly indigenous area on the Northern coast or Panama which is not a province,
making a total of thirteen regions. Each regional office is headed by a regional director representing the
MIEDUC.
The regional education offices have responsibility for planning, supervision, and general administration of
the education system in their respective jurisdictions. They also are responsible for planning and
implementing teacher training activities in coordination with national MIEDUC offices. In addition, the
regional education offices promote change and innovation in the school system, including strengthening
participation by parents, educators and other community organizations in educational projects. School
supervision operates at the Zone level under the authority of the MIEDUC Regional Director, with about
20 schools assigned to each Zone supervisor. The MIEDUC plans to establish approximately 150-155
school zones in the country. An intermediate level of decentralized administration is planned to be
established between the regional board and the school zone, but its functions and geographic jurisdiction
- 35 -



have yet to be defined.
The government has requested the Bank to support implementation of the decentralization process and
encouraging more dynamic community participation in the governance of schools through training and
strengthening of the regional offices of the MIEDUC.
The project will provide technical assistance and training to strengthen the capacity for administrative and
fmancial management at the central, regional and local levels. For this purpose it will support
implementation of a series of workshops with regional, provincial and central education officials to define
the operational structure and the functions to be performed at each level.
The Bank-financed First Basic Education Project is supporting the development of a Management
Information System to improve sector planning and personnel management, including human resources
administration, budgeting, accounting, purchasing, warehouse inventories, educational statistics and school
map. The proposed project will continue this support to ensure adequate implementation. The system will
establish linkages between the central and regional levels. Other institutional development activities are
being financed by the on-going, InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB) financed educational development
project, including educational planning, school management, community participation, curriculum change,
and teacher training.
The project will continue to support the implementation of a national assessment system to establish
student achievement levels in mathematics and language at the third and sixth grade levels.
Project Component 4 - US$2.30 million
(total cost of component, including contingencies).
Project Administration
This is not an additional investment component of the project, but represents the estimated cost of
management and coordination of project implementation as described in Section C.4 of the PAD, including
primarily staff and operation expenses of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), project reporting and
auditing.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PANAMA: PAIBASIC EDU 11
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million   US $million
1. Quality Improvement of Basic Education                28.00        13.15         41.15
2. Expansion of the non-fonnal Preschool Education Program  3.60        2.10         5.70
3. Institutional Strengthening of the Education System    4.20          0.60         4.80
4. Project Management                                     2.10          0.00         2.10
Total Baseline Cost                                      37.90         15.85        53.75
Physical Contingencies                                   1.30          1.00         2.30
Price Contingencies                                      1.80          0.80         2.60
Total Project Costs             41.00         17.65        58.65
Front-end fee                    0.35         0.35
Total Financing Required             41.00         18.00        59.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       9.83         10.51        20.34
Works                                                       8.28          5.50         13.78
Services                                                    2.11          0.82         2.93
Training                                                    0.86          0.37          1.23
Scholarships                                                9.40          0.00         9.40
Transfers to COPAMACEs                                      0.80          0.00         0.80
Teachers and promoters salaries                             6.02          0.00         6.02
Project administration costs                                0.57          0.36         0.93
Other operating costs                                       3.13          0.09         3.22
Total Project Costs    41.00          17.65        58.65
Front-end fee                    0.35         0.35
Total Financing Required     41.00         18.00        59.00
- 37 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PANAMA: PA/BASIC EDU 11
The proposed project has three components: (i) quality improvement of basic education (rehabilitation of
educational infrastructure, provision of educational materials, and a pilot project for distance education
"Telebasica"); (ii) expansion of non-formal preschool education (CEFACEI and Home-Based Initial
Education programs); and (iii) institutional strengthening. Separate internal rates of return were calculated
for each sub-component. The financial impact of the institutional strengthening component was included
only in the calculation of the overall internal rate of return of the project; no attempt was made to find a
separate internal rate of return for this component, since its benefits are difficult to measure.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Benefit-Cost Analysis: Internal Rates of Return (IRR)
Results indicate that overall, the project is economically viable. If the project's full costs are considered
(including capacity building, institutional strengthening, and the opportunity cost to households of children
attending school) the return for the project as a whole is estimated at 22 percent. Component specific
analysis indicates that Rehabilitation of Infrastructure has the highest economic return, and that the
CEFACEI and Initial Education component has the lowest economic returns. The internal rate of return
(IRR) for the TELEBASICA component, as a whole, is conservatively estimated at 15 percent; for the
CEFACEI and Initial Education component 14 percent; for the educational materials component 23
percent; and for the rehabilitation of educational infrastructure 24 percent. If one excludes the opportunity
costs from this analysis, then the IRR are 17 percent for Telebasica, 15 percent for CEFACEI and Initial
Education, 28 percent for the Educational Materials component, and 30 percent for the rehabilitation of
educational infrastructure. The overall IRR in this case is 26 percent. If on the other hand one assumes
different case scenarios, namely that GDP would grow at only 1 percent, per year in nominal terms,
everything else constant, the IRR for the Telebasica component would still be 10 percent, for the CEFACEI
and Initial Education component would be 9 percent, for the Educational Materials component would be 16
percent, and for the Rehabilitation of Infrastructure component would be 17 percent. With this lower GDP
growth rate the return for the project as a whole is estimated at 15 percent (see Table 1).
Table 1: Estimated Internal Rates of Return (%)
Program        Baseline  Worst-Case         Assumptions of Worst-Case Scenario
Case     Seenario
Telebasica             15         10      GDP grows 1% a year
CEFACEI and Initial    14          7      GDP grows 1% a year, improvement in repetition rates
Education                                is 25%; dropout rates do not change
Educational            23         13      GDP grows 1% a year; improvement in repetition rates
Materials                                 is 5%; dropout rates do not change
Rehabilitation of      24         12      GDP grows 1% a year; improvement in repetition rates
Infrastructure                            is 5%; dropout rates do not change
Total Program          22         12      GDP grows 1% a year; improvement in repetition rates
is 5%; dropout rates do not change
a/ Includes Institutional Strengthening and Administration costs.
- 38 -



It must be noted that the IRR as calculated should be thought of as lower-bound estimates, as they exclude
many benefits that are hard or impossible to measure in monetary terms. In particular, the benefit-cost
analysis assigns no independent benefits to the Institutional Strengthening component, treating it only as
costs or supporting activities of the other four components. Furthermore, it does not take into account such
effects of an overall better educated labor force on productivity and on life-time earnings profiles.
Benefits.
In broad terms, the measurable benefits from the project are: (i) the improvement in repetition and dropout
rates; (ii) increased coverage of basic education (primary and lower secondary); (iii) gains from
maintaining and expanding the school infrastructure; and (i) the increase in expected wages of
better-educated individuals. The IRR estimates do not include monetary estimates of non-pecuniary
benefits, such as that basic education helps reduce poverty by increasing the productivity of the poor,
by reducing fertility rates and improving health. This analysis also excludes the positive externalities
that arise from a better educated population and the spillover effects of a project that by targeting
children from low-income families, will positively impact the population income distribution; or that
basic education is criticalfor economic growth and poverty reduction.
Telebaisica. This pilot component would benefit a total of 2,200 students, about 600 students per year. It
is assumed that the project reaches students who would otherwise not have had the opportunity to enroll in
secondary school. The benefits from the project are the expected gains in lifetime income.
CEFACEI and Initial Education. A total of 600 new CEFACEIs centers (150 centers per year-and
400 Initial Education Groups-100 groups per year, will be opened. With an estimated 20 children per
CEFACEI and 30 children per Initial Education center, this means that 12,000 children will benefit from
the program. Without the project, only about 20 percent of those children would otherwise have had access
to pre-school education. It is well documented in the literature that children who attended pre-school
education perform substantially better in primary school. For this cohort of children who will attend
pre-school, we would observe a decrease in the repetition and dropout rates. The IRR for the CEFACEI
and initial education component assumes that children who attend pre-school will perform 50 percent better
than non-preschooled children in terms of repetition rates, and 20 percent better in terms of dropout rates.
The increased internal efficiency of the school system is reflected in the fact that typical student will finish
primary school in 0.6 years less (6.4 years versus 7 years). In addition to the increased efficiency of the
school system, there are the benefits from increased expected earnings as more children will finish primary
education. As more children finish primary school at an earlier age, it can furtherrnore be assumed that a
higher proportion of the affected children will continue their education and enroll in lower secondary
schools as well.
Educational Materials. The project targets 280,000 students in primary and lower secondary education.
We divided this number into 40,000 students per grade in primary school and 13,000 per grade in lower
secondary school. This breakdown is a first approximation; an equal spread over the various grades was
assumed to avoid bottlenecks in the second and following years. The benefits come from an increased
efficiency of the school system, reflected once again in lower dropout and repetition rates. The IRR for this
component assumes a relative decline in dropout rates of 20 percent, and a 15 percent improvement in
repetition rates (for both primary and lower secondary school). Additional benefits come from the
increased number of students who graduate, thereby increasing their expected lifetime income. This is true
both for students who are able to finish primary education and for those who finish lower secondary
education.
- 39 -



Rehabilitation of Educational Infrastructure. On one side, neglecting school repair or expansion will
lead to a decline in the efficiency of the education system. On the other side, repairing schools that are
currently in bad shape will contribute to an increase in efficiency. This component is meant to benefit 60
percent of total children enrolled in primary and lower secondary children. (see Table 2). Again, the
baseline IRR estimates for this component assume that primary school dropout rates would be 20 percent
better if the project is undertaken versus when the rehabilitation is not undertaken. The relative gains in
repetition rates were assumed to be 15 percent. As before, additional benefits come from the increased
number of students who graduate, thereby increasing their expected lifetime income.
Table 2: Distribution per Grade of Students Benefiting from Rehabilitated Classrooms
Grade       I      II    III    IV    V         VI   VII   VIIl   IX
Students  41,526 37,205 33,207 30,797 27,703 26,075 28,340 22,397 18,131
Costs
The full project costs are estimated at US$278 million (see Table 3). This cost estimate includes US$59.6
million in costs directly associated with the project, US$128.8 million for all other expenses (including the
extra public and private spending on education), and US$89.9 million in expected foregone income while
the students are in school (opportunity costs).
Telebasica. Total costs of this component are estimated at US$18.5 million. The costs to build the 30
centers (three classrooms each) are budgeted at 12,000 Balboas per classroom, assumed to depreciate at a
rate of 5 percent a year. Another 375,000 Balboas will be spent on equipment (televisions etc.), with an
assumed depreciation rate of 33 percent a year. In addition to these project costs, there is the yearly cost
per student of 1,401 Balboas and the expected foregone income while the students are in school.
CEFACEI and Initial Education. The total cost of this component is calculated at US$31 million. This
amount covers all expenses, both public and private. As there will still be children in the program in the
fifth year, we budgeted an additional 354.9 Balboas per child (adjusted for inflation).
Educational Materials. For this component, a total of US$5.9 million is budgeted. We spread this over
four years to reflect a 25 percent yearly depreciation rate for the materials. Assuming that the government
will replace the books to make the gains permanent, we included a renewal rate of 20 percent per additional
year.
Rehabilitation of Educational Infrastructure. At US$24.2 million, this component is the largest of the
project. This investment is spread over 20 years. In addition it was assumed that the project will generate
an annual maintenance cost of 3 percent.
Table 3: Estimated Total Costs for Panama: Second Education Project
Program                    Time Unit
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____(M illions_US$)
CEFACEI, Initial Education             31.0                       Annual
Telebasica                             18.5                       Annual
Educational Materials                  77.3                       Annual
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure       57.2                       Annual
Institutional Strengthening             4.7                       Annual
- 40 -



Efficiency Gains
Table 4 depicts the efficiency gains from two project components -- the educational materials and the
rehabilitation of educational infrastructure. The project aims to improve the in-school learning
environment, which should improve repeater and drop-out rates. The regular computation of these rates
during project implementation would help monitor improvement in the internal efficiency of the system.
Decreasing the wastage ratio means students stay less time in the education system to graduate. The cost
and time implications of such an improvement are discussed in Table 4.
Table 4: Efficiency Gains from the Project
Without the project    With the project
Primary Education      Time average                    7.63                 7.44
Cost average                    6.98                 6.69
Time efficiency                 0.79                 0.81
Cost efficiency                 0.86                 0.90
Lower Secondary        Time average                    4.30                 4.22
Education
Cost average                    3.89                 3.60
Time efficiency                 0.70                 0.71
Cost efficiency                 0.77                 0.83
Main Assumptions:
Methodology and Assumptions
Table 5: Yearly Wages by Education Levels
Educational Attainment                          Yearly Wages (Balboas)
Incomplete Primary Education                            1,212
Completed Primary Education                             2,076
Completed Secondary Education                           4,464
Throughout the calculations, the maintained hypothesis was a working life of 45 years. Yearly wages for
different education levels were estimated from the 1997 Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS)
(see Table 5). These yearly earnings are assumed to grow at an annual rate equal to the GDP growth rate
of 5 percent.
To estimate the expected yearly income, the unemployment rates for the category "All Poor" (bottom 40
percent of the population) were estimated from the 1997 LSMS data (see Table 6). The unemployment
-41 -



rate for people who finished lower secondary education is substantially higher than for people with a less
educated background (up to more than twice as much), probably due to higher reservation wages and
imperfections in the labor market. However, over the lifetime of a worker this difference in employment
opportunity may grow smaller, and as the economy grows, it is likely that this discrepancy will become less
pronounced. To incorporate these in the calculations, the unemployment rate for someone with a lower
secondary education was taken to be 2.5 times that of an primary school educated person, but to decline
linearly by 0.1 percent point per year of working life until both unemployment rates reach the same level.
Table 6: Unemployment Rates by Age group for the Poor
Age group            I1519 120-24 12529 j30-39 14049 150-59
Unemployment rate(%)     16.5   13.6  8.9    4.3    3.2   1.3
Source: 1997 LSMS.
The yearly public unit cost of providing education was estimated from Ministry of Education (MIEDUC)
data and taken to be 354.9 Balboas for pre-school education, 453 Balboas for primary school, and 1,401
Balboas for lower secondary school. The cost per child is assumed to increase at the general inflation rate
of the economy (2 percent by assumption). The assumed per-grade repetition rates are displayed in Table
7. For dropout rates, we take an average dropout rate of 1.2 percent for primary school (source: 1997
LSMS) and 6 percent for secondary school (based on MIEDUC data used in the First Basic Education
Project). For the private yearly unit cost to studying, the following amounts were used: 50 Balboas for
pre-school, 106 Balboas for primary school, and 253 Balboas for lower secondary school. Finally, the
opportunity cost to studying was assumed to be 404 Balboas for primary school and 1,038 Balboas for
lower secondary school (respectively one-third and one-half of the average yearly eamings).
Table 7: Repetition Rates by Grades
Grade            II   II    I    IV  v        VI        III IlX
Repetition Rate 17.7 13.5 10.1 7.2 5.6 2.0 10.9 10.7 8.0
Source: Estadistica Educativa, MIEDUC.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PANAMA: PAJBASIC EDU 11
Years Ending
June 30
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year I    Year2      Year3           4     Year 5  |Year6        Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            4.5       10.3       15.2       14.5        4.0      . 0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs              1.1        1.5       2.5         3.2        1.9       0.0
Total Project Costs           5.6       11.8       17.7       17.7        5.9        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.3        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               5.9       11.8       17.7       17.7        5.9        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   3.5        7.0        10.5       10.5        3.5       0.0        0.0
Government                 2.4        4.8         7.2        7.2        2.4       0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        (.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      5.9       11.8       17.7       17.7        5.9       0.0        0.0
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3     Year 4     Year 5    Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        (.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            2.0        3.9        3.9        3.9        3.9       3.9        3.9
Total Project Costs          2.0        3.9        3.9        3.9         3.9       3.9        3.9
Front-end fee    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              2.0        3.9        3.9        3.9         3.9       3.9        3.9
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                 2.0        3.9        3.9        3.9       :3.9       3.9         3.9
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     2.0        3.9        3.9        3.9         3.9       3.9        3.9
Main assumptions:
The project's incremental recurrent costs correspond to the following: (i) payments to promoters of the
non-formal preschool education program, as well as to supervisory and central level incremental staff; (ii)
-43 -



non durable educational materials for the preschool program; (iii) hiring of teachers for the distance
education pilot program; (iv) scholarships for needy students, and (v) costs related to the coordination of
project activities, infrastructure maintenance and maintenance of office equipment purchased with loan
funds. These will be fully financed by the Government from the beginning of the project. They represent
less than two percent of the Ministry of Education budget and are considered negligible and easily absorbed
by the Government through savings by promoting system efficiency.
Because of Panama's high level of expenditures compared to other countries in the region, one of the main
objectives of the project's institutional strengthening component is to increase the efficiency of education
expenditures through decision making based on an improved management information system.
Affordability of the Project
The tentative project financing plan includes US$24.0 million in Government financing. US$27.3 million if
one also considers the various other effects, such as replacing textbooks after the project is over, the costs
to the school system of having less dropouts in lower secondary school, etc. We applied the same
benchmark hypotheses as in the economic evaluation to estimate the impact of the project on MIEDUC's
budget. In addition we assumed that the share of the education budget in GDP remains the same over the
years (at roughly 6 percent), implying that the budget also grows at 5 percent per year.
The projected impact of the Project on the budget of MIEDUC is shown in Table 10. The table includes
the impact both when all costs are considered (including extra per unit cost of increased enrollments) and
when only the direct project costs are taken into account. Under the baseline scenario assumptions and
including all the costs (including the per unit spending due to higher enrollment), the Project would imply
an increase in the Education Budget between 5.3 percent and 13.2 percent annually. If only the direct costs
from the Project are considered, then the impact on the Budget would be in the order of 1.2 percent to 1.5
percent annually.
Table 8: Impact of Project on MIEDUC Bud et
Year    MIEDUC        MIEDUC Budget,   MIEDUC Budget,    Project    Project Impact,
Budget before         All         Direct Project Costs  Impact, All  Direct Project
Project       Project Costs       (USS million)      Costs (%)     Costs (%)
(US$ million)    (USS million) .._.._._           ..._
1       369.9             417.8               402.0             5.3           1.28
2        416.7            454.6               423.1             9.1            1.51
3        437.6            491.6               444.0             12.3           1.46
4        459.5             520.3              465.3             13.2           1.27
5        482.4            532.8               488.5             10.4           1.27
6        506.6            556.2               513.0             9.8            1.27
7        531.9            580.1               538.6             9.1            1.27
8        558.5            607.8               565.6             8.8            1.27
9        586.4            640.5               593.8             9.2            1.27
10       615.7             673.6               623.5            9.4            1.27
The respective increases in spending, including either all the costs versus the direct costs from the Project,
should be thought of upper and lower bounds to increased spending respectively. Based on the percentage
impact of the project on the budget of MIEDUC, we conclude that the project will not put an unfeasible
burden on the Education Budget; and it should be fairly easy for MILEDUC to absorb the additional
expenditure.
- 44 -



Table 9 shows the impact on the budget of the Central Govemment. Including the total Project costs into
the analysis would increase the overall Budget of the Central Govemment by 0.8 percent to 2 percent
annually. If only the direct costs of the Project are included in the calculation, then the impact on the
Budget would only be about 0.2 percent annually. Again, we conclude that the Project will not put an
unfeasible burden on the Budget.
Table 9: Impact of Project on Central Government Budget
Year  Budget before    Budget, All    Budget, Direct      Project     Project Impact,
Project     Projeet Costs    Project Costs    Impact, All    Direct Project
(US$ million)   (USS miDlion)    (US$ million)   Costs (%)       Costs (%)
1        2,614          2,635            2,619            0.8             0.19
2        2,745          2,783            2,751            1.4             0.23
3        2,882          2,936            2,888            1.9             0.22
4        3,026          3,087            3,032            2.0             0.19
5        3,177          3,228           3,183.8           1.6             0.19
6        3,336          3,386           3343.0            1.5             0.19
7        3,503          3,552           3510.2            1.4             0.19
8        3,678          3,728           3685.7            1.3             0.19
9        3,862          3,917           3870.0            1.4             0.19
10       4,055           4,114           4063.5            1.4            0.19
- 45 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PANAMA: PA/BASIC EDU 11
Procurement
Procedures. Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines on procurement of works, goods and services Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and
IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in September 1997 and in January 1999), and Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table A.
The project would include procurement of civil works for rehabilitation of school infrastructure, the
procurement of textbooks, teacher guides, educational materials, training, school furniture, and office and
computer equipment. In addition, the project would finance studies and technical assistance services.
Procurement of civil works will be carried out by the MIEDUC or by an outside entity selected by the
MIEDUC and acceptable to the Bank, and the PCU will be responsible for controlling and monitoring their
execution. Procurement for the other components of the project mentioned above will be carried out by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), a unit within the Ministry of Education (MIEDUC). This unit will have
overall responsibility for procurement of goods and services under the project, starting with the preparation
of bidding documents (with the exception of technical specifications and others inputs to be provided by
each implementing unit), invitation to bid and up to the selection of the supplier and/or contractor. The
PCU shall include a qualified Procurement Officer who will be responsible for the preparation of standard
bidding documents and the irnplementation of procurement according to the Bank's guidelines and the
Operational Manual (OM).
The MIEDUC is revising the OM, which would be used by both procurement units (FIS and PCU) and, it
will include procurement procedures, standard bidding documents, financial and disbursement procedures,
and procurement legal covenants. The issuance of the OM is a Condition of Loan Effectiveness. The OM
would also make provisions for supervision, reporting and auditing requirements.
Procurement of Civil Works. Civil works contracts would consist mainly of repairs and rehabilitation of
classrooms, and rehabilitation of schools amounting to approximately US$13.4 million equivalent. The
types of civil works included in the Project may be procured as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) shall be used for contracts which cost US$500,000 or over;
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) may be used for contracts less than US$500,000 per contract up
to an aggregate amount of US$9.8 million;
(c) Price Comparison for contracts costing less than US$250,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$1.6
million may be awarded on the basis of not less than three quotations from qualified local contractors
in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to
the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest evaluated price for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. The Standard Regionalized Unit Prices System currently used by
the FIS will not be acceptable as a price reference during the comparison of quotations.
-46 -



(d) Direct Contracting (DC) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines may be
used only with the Bank's prior agreement and on an exceptional basis in schools located in distant
rural areas where competition is not possible, for contracts costing less than US$30,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million.
Procurement of Goods and Equipment. The project would finance contracts for goods to a total value of
US$18.4 million equivalent. The types of goods to be procured under the project consist of: (i) computers;
(ii) school furniture; (iii) educational materials, and (iv) office equipment and furniture.
The MIEDUC may procure goods as follows:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) shall be used for goods estimated to cost UJS$250,000
equivalent or more. In the evaluation of bids, a margin of preference may be granted to domestic
manufacturers in accordance with Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines. Textbooks (other than those
covered by paragraph (d) below), teachers and students guides and library books, shall be awarded
under ICB two-stage bidding procedures in accordance with paragraph 2.6 of the Bank's Guidelines,
using bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. Awards will be made by individual packages or by
groups of packages, depending on the combination that produces the lowest evaluated total bid cost;
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) may be used for school furniture, educational materials, printing
services, office equipment and furniture estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of US$9.76 million. As a general rule, procurement of school furniture shall be
packaged in contracts by geographical areas;
(c) Shopping for smaller purchases, school furniture, and educational materials, costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be awarded on the basis of three quotations up to an estimated
aggregate amount of US$1.43 million. The contracts would be awarded on the basis of not less than
three quotations from qualified local suppliers in response to a written invitation. T he invitation shall
include a detailed description of the goods, including basic technical specifications, the required
delivery date, and a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank. The award shall be made to the
supplier who offers the lowest evaluated price quotation for the required goods, and who has the
experience and resources to deliver the goods. School furniture. The project would finance about
US$0.7 million of school furniture to be distributed to new classrooms and to replace existing old
furniture (including all the escuelas rancho) located in isolated rural areas, or marginal urban areas,
with mostly indigenous populations. On an exceptional basis, furniture for schools in isolated areas
may be procured locally for individual contracts costing up to US$30,000 each, with to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $0.1 million.
(d) Direct Contracting would apply to the direct purchasing of books, up to US$4.44 million. Contracts
will be awarded to suppliers who were selected under competitive procedures under the on-going
project, provided that they would involve the same titles, not available from other providers, and that
the prices remain competitive. Prices should not be higher than those agreed in the original contract,
with reasonable adjustments for inflation
Procurement of Technical Assistance, Training and Audits. MIEDUC would procure all the consulting
services: these include Technical Assistance (TA) and/or training for capacity building activities, technical
assistance for the preparation of manuals and guidelines, supervision, ex-post evaluation of completed
projects, audits, management services, and contracts of short and long-term consultants in the PCU. The
project would finance the transportation and per diem costs of participants in training and monitoring
- 47 -



workshops. Before negotiations broad terms of reference for training programs, technical assistance and
studies to be financed under the project will have been reviewed and agreed upon with MIEDUC. In the
contracting of small consultant services, MIEDUC will use standard invitation packages and contract
models as agreed with the Bank (par. 3.10).
Consulting services shall be procured following the Bank's Consultant Guidelines and using the Bank
standard request for proposals. The methods of selection to be followed would be: (i) Selection-Based-on
Quality-and-Cost for TA capacity building activities; (ii) Quality Based Selection for specialized technical
assistance, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million; (iii) Least Cost (LCS) or Fixed Budget (FBS)
Selection, up to an aggregate amount of US$4.0 million for supervision of works, financial and
procurement audits, and training; and (iv) consultant services including long-term consultants in the PCU
equal to or more than US$40,000 per contract will be awarded using short lists; and for amounts less than
US$50,000, Individual Consultants' Qualifications, as described in Chapter V of the Guidelines, up to a
total aggregate limit of US$1.0 million.
Expenditures not Subject to Competitive Procedures. Approximately US$1.7 million of Bank financing
expenditures would not be subject to competitive procedures. Those activities are training-related
expenditures, such as transportation and per diem. Scholarships for students and fees for promotoras, and
mother-leaders (community educators) will be financed by MIEDUC. The cost of these items are based on
the MIEDUC's standard for these type of expenditure, which were reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory.
Bank Prior and Post Review. For Works and Goods, (i) all ICB and two-stage ICB procurement; (ii)
the first two NCB contracts each year, regardless of value; (iii) the bi-annual program of FIS works
subprojects procured under price comparison each year (iv) the first two Shopping procedures for school
furniture, computers and training materials, printing, and distribution services, each year, regardless of
value; (v) all direct contracts of works below US$30,000 (including technical specifications and the draft
contract); (vi) all direct purchasing of textbooks; and (vii) procurement arrangements in accordance with
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. The rest of the procurement of works and goods will be subject to ex-post
review by the Bank.
Regarding the review of consultant services, the following will be subjected to prior review: (i) all Terms of
Reference and requests for proposals for contracts to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more for services
provided by firms, as well as financial and procurement audits, (ii) TORs and terms of employment for
individual consultant contracts valued less than US$50,000 equivalent, selected from the program, which is
to be updated twice a year; (iii) all terms of reference and CVs for key personnel of the PCU, irrespective
of value; and (iv) procurement arrangements in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Consultants Guidelines.
Prior review is expected of approximately 35 percent of all contracts under the loan. Although the level of
prior review would be relatively low, this would be compensated for in several ways: (i) as part of the
annual ex-post review of subprojects, external procurement auditors, contracted by MIEDUC under the
loan, will conduct performance audits covering technical, environmental, managerial and procurement
aspects on a sample of subprojects satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) this audit of procurement aspects will
include both physical audits and procurement procedures; and (iii) the Bank's supervision missions, two
per year, will conduct random reviews (at least one for each five contracts), and include field visits and
review of procurement documentation. A procurement specialist/analyst will be part of the supervision
teams.
Procurement Plan A Procurement Plan for the Project satisfactory to the Bank for the four-year life of
- 48 -



the project was agreed during negotiations, and shall be updated every January on an annual basis during
the entire life of the project, and whenever the Bank considers it necessary. The plan shall specify the
aggregate amounts for each type of expenditure (civil works, goods and consultants), procurement
methodology (international and national competitive bidding, price comparison, local shopping, etc.), time
frames and other relevant details. Standard Documents for national procurement and request for proposals
for contracting of consultants will be updated by the PCU before the very first request for proposals.
MIEDUC and the construction implementation contractor will follow procurement procedures detailed in
an Operational Manual (OM), satisfactory to the Bank. A project launch workshop to update and
familiarize new staff in the PCU and FIS with procurement, disbursement, reporting and auditing
requirements would be organized at an early stage in project implementation., before loan effectiveness.
Advertising. A General Procurement Notice is scheduled to be published in the United Nations
Development Business, before Negotiations. Specific Procurement Notices will be published, either in
Development Business, or regionally or locally according to the procurement method used for that
particular acquisition.
Procurement Records. Detailed Procurement records, reflecting the project's supply of works, goods and
consultant services including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and procurement
activities related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by the PCU. These records will be
maintained for at least two years after project closing date. The records for works and goods will include
public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening information, bid evaluation reports, formal
appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related addenda and amendments, records on claim
and dispute resolution, and any other useful information. The records for consultants services will include
public notices for expression of interest, requests for proposals and addenda, technical and financial
reports, formal appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records
on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information.
MIEDUC's Procurement Capacity. A capacity assessment of the two procurement implementing
agencies; namely the PCU and the procurement implementation contractor with an analysis of legal
aspects, project management, organization and functions, support and control systems, record keeping,
staffing, general procurement environment, private sector assessment, and overall risk assessment, was
approved by the RPA on September 28, 1998. The preparation of the assessment included meetings with
PCU staff. It was updated May 2000. due to changes in project design and in administrative personnel at
MIEDUC. It is important to indicate, as a risk factor, that the management of MIEDUC (PCU) is new and
in the process of learning about Bank procedures. The procurement officer in the PCU is working in the
ongoing project and will provide continuity, experience and capacity. Since his major experience resides
with goods, it is recommended that he obtain more experience in procurement of works in order to
coordinate and monitor construction implementation contractor subprojects. Detailed recommendations of
the Assessment are included in the Project design and in the Project OM that will be updated. The project
is rated "Average Risk" in terms of procurement aspects.
Civil Works Contracts. The infrastructure team within the PCU has acquired substantial experience in
coordinating and supervising the implementation of FIS civil works subprojects under the Basic Education
I Project. Given that almost all civil works in the proposed project would be implemented by the MIEDUC
and a construction implementation contractor, the infrastructure PCU team and the PCU procurement
officer will need strengthening from technical assistance provided by external consultants in order to: (i)
monitor contracting procedures; and (ii) support Parent Associations, who will be supervising locally
contracted works. The PCU will also be responsible for ensuring the timely provision of qualified technical
assistance to the Parent Associations to conduct feasibility studies under their subprojects, and train them
- 49 -



to administer contracts. The Procurement Officer will be responsible for ensuring compliance to Bank
procedures. An action plan has been agreed with MIEDUC during negotiations to ensure that all
procurement of smaller works will be executed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Goods and Consultants Services Contracts. MIEDUC's procurement capacity in the PCU has grown
substantially under the ongoing project, specially regarding ICB procurement for goods and services. Some
actions regarding planning, file management and improved communication still need to be taken by the
MIEDUC to increase the PCU's efficiency and coordination with both MIEDUC and contractor
implementation units. An action plan will be agreed with MIEDUC during negotiations.
The OM shall be updated by Negotiations and be a condition of Loan Effectiveness to ensure acceptable
procedures for procurement (including standard bidding documents and requests for proposals),
accounting, disbursement and auditing, as agreed for all Bank operations. The OM shall also include: (i)
specific operating and control mechanisms agreed under the financial and physical monitoring system
(FMS); and (ii) procedural guidelines specified for FIS.
Special Provisions in Procurement. A Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) of Panama's
procurement procedures, prepared by the Bank in October, 1994, indicates that they are not fully
compatible with the Bank's procurement guidelines. The Republic of Panama's Law No. 56, December
1995, and Decree No. 18, January 1996, provide the basic rules for procurement of goods and services and
constitute the country's regulatory framework for procurement. At Negotiations, special provisions were
agreed upon so that the principles indicated below will govern all procurement of goods and services:
A.    The following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of goods, works
and printing services for educational and assessment materials under International Competitive Bidding:
I .    Foreign bidders shall not be required to:
(a) Have a local representative for purposes of submitting bids;
(b) Be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; and
(c) Be associated with local contractors or suppliers.
2.    Bids may be:
(a) Submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail, courier or in person; and
(b) Accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding
documents.
3.    No provisional award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
4.    No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
5.    Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the lowest responsive
bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.
6.    After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time period, and in the
form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
B.   The following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of works and goods
under National Competitive Bidding:
- 50 -



1.     Bids may be:
(a) Submitted at any reasonable time before bid opening, either by mail, courier or in person;
(b) Accompanied by a bid security in the form and amount specified in the standard bidding
documents.
2.     No provision award shall be made at the time of bid opening.
3.     No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
4.     Contracts for civil works shall provide for mobilization advances, whenever appropriate.
5.     Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the lowest responsive
bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.
6.     After contract award, performance securities shall be provided within the time period and in the
form and amount specified in the standard bidding documents.
7.     Price adjustment provisions, acceptable to the Bank, may be included in work contracts.
C.   The following principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants'
services:
1.     Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(a) Be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection process;
(b) Give any participation in or share of any consulting contracts to any local firm or person for
the purposes of participating in the selection process or receiving an award, except in
connection with a joint venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient number of capable domestic
firms or individual consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable freedom of
choice; (ii) the contributions of either party to the joint venture arrangement will not be
constrained by any prescribed manner or extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant
is not required to associate itself with any specific named domestic firms or individual
consultants;
(c) Furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for
the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(d) Submit their proposals in person.
2.     Consultants shall be selected from a short list of firms invited to submit proposals on the basis of
terms of reference, employment conditions and evaluation criteria clearly set forth in the respective
letter of invitation.
- 51 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category             ICB        Procu  ment Methed                N.B.F.      Total Cost
.  .S . S S v _ _ s 0 j _C                        Other
1. Works                             0.00           11.17           2.23           0.00          13.40
(0.00)         (7.85)         (2.00)          (0.00)        (9.85)
2. Goods                             3.08            9.16           6.16           0.00          18.40
(3.08)         (9.02)         (5.30)          (0.00)        (17.40)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           7.05           9.40          16.45
(0.00)         (0.00)         (6.05)          (0.00)        (6.05)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00           1.70           8.69          10.39
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.70)          (0.00)        (1.70)
5. Front-end fee                     0.00            0.00           0.00           0.36           0.36
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                             3.08           20.33          17.14           18.45         59.00
(3.08)         (16.87)        (15.05)         (0.00)        (35.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 52 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS      Q8S       SFB      LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category    .__                      ...                    _
A. Firms           2.45     0.00      2.30      1.30     0.00      0.00     0.00      6.05
(2.00)    (0.00)    (2.00)    (1.05)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (5.05)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      1.00     9.40     10.40
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.00)    (0.00)    (1.00)
Total  2.45      0.00      2.30     1.30      0.00      1.00     9.40     16.45
_  (2.00)    (0.00)    (2.00)    (1.05)    (0.00)    (1.00) _  (0.00)    (6.05)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 53 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
f   0 |  0 0 0 0 $ l4Threshold    Procurement    Prior Review
Expenditure Category       (Li 1thoodusands)           Meth                   (US$i millionS) X
1. Works                        >500.0                    ICB                  - All contracts
Repairs and substitution        <500.0                    NCB             - First two contracts every
of classrooms and                                                                   year
rehabilitation of schools       <250.0          Local shopping at least three - Review of the bi-annual
quotations                program
2. Goods                        >250.0                    ICB                  - All contracts
School furniture                <250.0                    NCB             - First two contracts every
year
<50.0                  Shopping          - First two contracts every
Computers                                                                           year
>50.0                    ICB                  - All contracts
<50.0                  Shopping          - First two contracts every
year
Educational materials            <4.0                Direct contracting    - All contracts, including
copies of specifications and
Training materials,                                                             draft contracts
printing and distribution       >250.0                    ICB                  - All contracts
services                        <250.0                    NCB             - First two contracts every
year
<50.0                  Shopping             - First two contracts
regardless of value every
year
3. Services                                                                          All
Consulting firms                >100.0                    QCBS              - Prior review: annual
<100.0                  LCS/FBS            TORs for financial and
procurement audits.
Individuals                                                                 Prior review: professional
(national and                    >50.0                  Short lists        services, bi-annual review
international)                                                              of program contracting.
Program to specify which
TORs will be reviewed.
Post-review: random
sample of contracting
documents.
- Prior review: professional
<50.0             Selection of Individual    services, bi-annual review
Consultants (Chapter V)    of program contracting.
Post-review: random
sample of contracting
documents.
- 54 -



Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    35%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
and one procurement audit every year.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
E)pExenditure Ca0t0e00      A mou it in USMiiion          financitdg      UqPeentag
1. Works - subprojects that include        10.00                         80%
rehabilitation of schools and
substitution of classrooms
2. Goods - equipment and furniture,         8.64              100% foreign and 90% of local
and computers                                                        expenditures
3. Educational materials - textbooks,       7.00              100% foreign and 90% of local
library books, and other didactic                                    expenditures
materials
4. Technical Assistance, Studies, and      4.30                          100%
Training
5. Operating costs, including Project       1.70                         80%
Administration
6. Unallocated                             3.36
Total Project Costs                        35.00
Front-end fee         0.00
Total                                      35.00
Table C above defines the disbursement categories of the project. The proposed Bank loan would be
disbursed over a period of about four years to be completed by April 30, 2005. Disbursements will not be
made for works, goods and services that have been procured from ineligible sources or that have not been
procured according to the Bank's procurement and consultant guidelines.
Financial Management Assessment. The project has in place an adequate organization and staff with
enough experience to carry out the necessary financial management activities. Accounting and internal
control procedures were found to be acceptable, yet the Accounting and Operational Manuals need to be
updated.
The accounting system meets the Bank's respective minimum requirements. Moreover, the software will be
upgraded so as to manage integrated financial information, particularly with regards to the production of
PMRs in the formats suggested by the Bank. Separate project accounts will be maintained in accordance
with accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank. Supporting documentation will be kept
by the executing agencies for at least one year after the final disbursement of funds for the project.
Even when financial management capacity is adequate, some areas can be improved. Specifically, project
staff agreed to perform an analysis of any existing flow-of-funds' problems and the corrective actions to be
taken. In addition, the sharing of financial information among the participating entities needs to be
enhanced. An action plan was agreed upon to improve the system, including capability to produce quarterly
Project Management Reports (PMRs). Substantial completion of activities planned before the effectiveness
date was established as effectiveness condition.
Further details can be found in the Financial Management Assessment Report prepared by the Bank's
- 56 -



Regional Financial Management Unit (LCOAA) and included in project files.
Audit Arrangements. External audit arrangements - which are currently in place under the Basic
Education I Project - are satisfactory. Project accounts will be audited annually by independent chartered
auditors acceptable to the Bank, under terms of reference in accordance with the respective Bank
Guidelines. The external auditors will perform interim visits on a quarterly manner. No later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year, the Project Coordination Unit will submit to the Bank certified
copies of the annual audit reports.
Disbursement Arrangements. Table C above defines the disbursement categories of the project. The
proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about four years to be completed by December
31, 2004. Disbursements will not be made for works, goods and services that have been procured from
ineligible sources or that have not been procured according to the Bank's procurement and consultant
guidelines. The Project Coordination Unit will be responsible for forwarding disbursement requests to the
Bank. These will be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
It is expected that the proposed IBRD loan would be disbursed based on Project Management Reports
(PMRs). However, until the project is considered capable of producing PMRs in a timely and effective
manner, disbursements will be based on "traditional" procedures, including the use of SOEs as follows:
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
-   Contracts for works less than US$500,000 with the exception of the first two contracts for works.
-   Contracts for goods and printing services US$250,000 with the exception of the first two contracts for
goods.
*   Contracts for consultants, less than US$50,000 for individuals and less than US$100,000 for firms
-   Expenditures related to training activities that do not require procurement: travel, per diem and
materials for training events, and study tours
e   Operating costs.
e   Fund transfer to COPAMACES and local school committees.
Special account:
A Special Account in US dollars will be opened in the Banco Nacional de Panama, with
an authorized allocation of US$2.7 million which corresponds to about four months of
expenditures under the project. The Special Account would be replenished monthly at the
borrower's request, but no less frequently than every three months, or whenever one-third
of the authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever comes first - under PMR-based
disbursements, the Special Account would be replenished at least quarterly, based on the
information presented in the PMRs -. Replenishment applications would be accompanied
by reconciled bank statements reflecting transactions made from the account and claimed
in the respective applications. Supporting documentation would be maintained by the
Borrower for at least one fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement from the
loan took place, and would be available for Bank staff and independent auditors' review.
Disbursement applications based on PMRs, once they are allowed by the borrower's FMS,
may not raise the balance remaining in the Special Account to more than $7,200,000.
Counterpart Funding. The Government will provide sufficient counterpart funds to implement
the project through a revolving account "fondo de trabajo" that will be administered by the
- 57 -



MIEDUC in accordance with terms and conditions detailed in the Operations Manual. The GOP,
through the MIEDUC, will extend the life of the existing revolving fund at the Bank of Panarna,
with not less than US$250,000 equivalent, as condition of effectiveness. Counterpart funds for
the scholarship program will be provided through IFARHU.
Retroactive Financing. No retroactive financing will be necessary. Preparatory activities for the
project are being financed under the current Basic Education Project and resources from a JGF.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PANAMA: PA/BASIC EDU 11
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       21                            33
First Bank mission (identification)              10/20/97                      10/20/97
Appraisal mission departure                      09/15/98                      09/15/98
Negotiations                                     07/20/99                      07/12/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/01/2000           =
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance:
Japanese Grant (TF025498) of US$450,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Carlos Rojas                      Sr. Education Specialist, TTL
Maria Elena Anderson              Consultant, Implementation Specialist
Marta Arango                      Consultant, Initial/Preschool Education
Angela Demas                      Operations Analyst
Henry Forero                      Consultant, MIS Specialist
Chris Geiragat                    Consultant, Economist
Maria Lucy Giraldo                Procurement Specialist
Daria Goldstein                   Legal Counsel
Juan Martinez                      Sr. Social Scientist
Natalia Moncada                    Language Program Assistant
Reynaldo Pastor                    Sr. Legal Counsel
Michael Potashnik                 Peer Reviewer, Sr. Advisor
Alexandria Valerio                 Consultant, Economist
Morag Van Praag                    Sr. Disbursement Officer
Manuel Vera                       Consultant, Education Specialist
Manuel Vargas                     Financial Management Officer
Myriarn Waiser                     Sr. Education Specialist
Alberto Zuniga                     Consultant, Architect
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PANAMA: PAIBASIC EDU 11
A. Project Implementation Plan
I. MIEDUC, mayo 1998. Proyecto de Educaci6n Basica II. Componente I. Calidad Educativa.
2. MIEDUC, mayo 1998. Rehabilitaci6n de la infraestructura escolar.
3. MIEDUC, mayo 1998. Dotaci6n de Libros de Textos, guias para el docente y bibliotecas escolares
para escuelas unigrados y de premedia de la Educaci6n Basica General.
4. MIEDUC, mayo 1998. Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n Basica, Educaci6n Premedia-Telebasica.
5. MIEDUC, mayo 1998. Componente "Expansion de la Educaci6n Inicial no Formal".
6. MIEDUC, mayo 1998. Fortalecimiento Administrativo y Administraci6n y Coordinaci6n del
Proyecto.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Country Assistance Strategy. October 1998.
2. Social Assessment. 1998. Panama. Proyecto de Educaci6n BAsica II. Evaluaci6n Social.
3 . Institutional Assessment. 1999.
4. Panama: Basic Education II Project - Financial Management Assessment Report. The World Bank's
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Financial Management Unit. March 23, 2000.
C. Other
1. Rodriguez Santana, Martha. March 30, 1998. Evaluaci6n Social de los Sub-componentes CEFACEI
y Madre a Madre. Informe Final de Consultoria. Panama.
2. Scott, Kinnon. May 1998 (draft). Improving the Impact of Pre-Schools in Panama.
3. Panama: Informe sobre Pobreza. Resultados con la Linea de Pobreza Extrema y con la Linea de
Pobreza General Baja.
4. Ministry of Education. March 1998. Componente de Educacion Inicial. Proyecto de Mejoramiento
de la Educaci6n Basica. Preparado por: El Equipo de Educaci6n Inicial, Ministerio de Educaci6n,
con el Apoyo de la Direcci6n de Programaci6n, Panama y Marta Arango M., Consultora.
5. Poverty, Malnutrition & Inequality in Panama: Preliminary Note. Draft, December 20, 1997.
World Bank.
6. Panama: Poverty Assessment. Priorities and Strategies for Poverty Reduction. The World Bank.
ReportNo. 18801 PAN June 28, 1999.
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PANAMA: PA/BASIC EDU II
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions   disbursements
Project ID    FY  Borrower                Purpose                              IBRD    IDA       Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P007837     1997 Panama               PA-FES                                     28.00     0.00     0.00    2088     14.89     0.00
P007832     1996 Panama               PAvEDUCATION SECTOR                        35.00     0.00     0.00     6.98     1.58     0.00
P040179     1999 Panama               PAvHELATH PILOT                             4.30     0.00     000      3.84     3.84     0.00
P007844     1994 Panama               ROADS REHABILITATION                       60.00     0.00     0.00    11.64    11.64     0.00
P007847     1997 Panama               RURAL POV & NAT RES                        22.50     0.00     0.00    15.03     7 63    -1.79
P051124     1998 Panama               UTILITIES RESTRUC TA                       12.70     0.00     0.00     6.89     4.76     0.00
Total:    162.50     0.00      0.00     65.26    44.34    -1.79
PANAMA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval           Company                            Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic      Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1999/00               BANISTMO                           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1997/00               Banco General S.                  25.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1993                  Continental-PAN                    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998                  ICA Panama                        20.00      0.00    15.00    35.00    20.00       0.00    15.00    35.00
1995/00               Manzanillo                        15.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    15.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1999                  PCRC                              15.00      5.00     0.00    30.00       6.33     5.00      0.00    12.67
1999                  Suintemacional                     0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     2.50      0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:           75.00    10.00    15.00    65.00    41.33        7.50    15.00    47.67
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                                Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
2000                 AES Panama                         45000.00        0.00       0.00 170000.00
1999                 Suintemacional                    20000.00        0.00        0.00  40000.00
Total Pending Commitment:         65000.00        0.00       0.00 210000.00
- 61-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PANAMA: PAIBASIC EDU II
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               America   middlet
Panama   & Carib.   income         Development diamond*
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                            2.8       502        588                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      3,080      3.940      4,860
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                           8.5      1,978     2.862
Averspe annual crowth 1992-98
Pooulalion M%                                              1.7        1.6       1.4
Labor force(%)                                             3.0        2.3       2.0      GNP            7                   Gross
per                               primary
Most recnt estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                     capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of Population below national poverty line)      37
Urban POpulation N% of total population)                   57         75         77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           74         70         70
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                   21         32         27
Child malnutrition (56 of children under 5)                 6          8                            Access to safe water
Access to sale water (% ofoopulation)                      64         75         79
Illiteracy5 of pooulation ape 15+)                          9         13         1 1
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-aqe population)     104        113        108         -Panama
Male                                                                             -    -         Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978      98        1997       1998
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS billions)                               2.5       4.9        8.7       9.1
Gross domestic investmentlGOP                              7.5       31,1      32.8
Exports of coods and services/GDP                        4086        39.5      33.8                       Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GOP                                23 86      27,2      23.5
Gross national savingstGDP                                23.8       24.2      19.2
Current account balance/GOP                                          - 8.     -136       Domestic          ' 
interest oavments/GDP                            5.0      003         3.5       3.7      Savings                        Investment
Total debUGOP                                   93.9    124.4        73.2      73.2      Savings          >             n
Total debt service/exoorts                                           32.6      155
Present value of debt/GDP                                            74.2      73.3
Present value of debt/exports                                ,      131,9     139.1
Indebtedness
19784S   1988.98      1997       1998   1998-02
(average annual prowth)
GDP                                    1.9       5.0       4.5        4.1       4,1                Panama
GNP vercapita                          0,1       3.0       1.8        0.8       2.7                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of toods and services          0.1       1.2       9.6      -108        50
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988       1997       1998      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                              60
Aariculture                                                9.3        7.0       7.1        T
Industrv                                                 16.4        17.0      16.7    40
Manufacturino                                            9.3        8.7        8.2    20 - 
Services                                                  74.3       76.0      76.2 o
Private consumption                                      55.5        58.6      60.0              93   94   95   96   97   99
General aovernment consumption                            20.9       16.2      16.5           -GDI                      GDP
Imports of aoods and services                            24.5       43.4       43.1     1
1978-88  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averaqe annual p7ro wth)
Aariculture                                      3.0       2.1        0.4       3.6    20
Industry                                        -0.3       6.9        5.1       1.6      10
Manufacturina                                  1.1       5.4        7.0        3.1
Services                                         1.2       4.9        4.8       4.8      0
Private consumption                              2.2      4.3        11.0      11.5    .10
General government consumption                   3.6       1.6        7.0       4.5
Gross domestic investmenl                       -9.7      22.7        1.1      11.9    | 20
Imports of qoods and services                   -2.8       7.0       15.9       8.4             -Exports         -     Imports
Gross national Product                           2.0       4.9        3.5        2.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-grouD averaqe. If data are missina, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 62 -



Panama
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1978    1988       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        6
Consumer prices                                ..      0.6       1.2      0.6     4
Implicit GDP deflator                         8.0    -0.2        1.7      1.4
Government finance                                                                2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               0
Current revenue                                ..        .      19.3      19.3           93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                          .                2.2      -0 4            -     GDP deflator    *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         .       ..       0.0      -5.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1978    1988       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                            1,777     1,393    4,000
Bananas                                       .        .       180      139
Sugar                                         .                 96       138    3,000
Manufactures                                  ..      ..    1,276       886
Total imports (cif)                                            2,992    3,320     2,000
Food                                          .        ..      270      300        0       A
Fuel and energy                                                262      185
Capital goods                                 .        .       783      847        0
92  93  94  9s  93  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                   .       .        97        89
Import price index (1995=100j                  ..        .       97        92                 U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..       100       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS.
(USS millions)                              1978    1988       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and servioes                   .       ..    3,421     3,090      5
Imports of goods and services                   .       ..    3,754     3,940
Resource balance                               ..        .      -334     -850                              *
Net income                                     ..       .       -419     -564        -  -              U         U
Net current transfers                          .                160       174      -5
Current account balance                        ..        .      -592    -1,240     10                                 I
Financing items (net)                           .              1,182     1,111
Changes in net reserves                                 ..     -589       129    ._ 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USs millions)                 72      1,148      955
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)              1.0      1.0       1.01      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978    1988       1997     1998
(USS millions)                                                                     Compositon of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,312    6,066     6,338    6,689
IBRD                                       107      478       209       279                        A: 279 c:177
IDA                              ~ ~ ~         ~ ~~~~~0  0  0  0                 G:749       C 7
Total debt service                           576       28      1,590      745                                  D 701
IBRO                                        13        5        44        41
IDA                              ~ ~ ~         ~~~~0  0  0     0                                    E:337
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                               8        6        70        50
Officialcreditors                           91       27       119       131
Private creditors                          458       23       411       253
Foreign direct investment                    -3     -52      1,275    1,186
Portfolio equity                             0        0    -1,036       478                F: 4.440
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                 12        0        51        78      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               12        4        53        91      B - IDA    0- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         4        3        29        26      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    8        1        25        65
Interest payments                            9        2         15       16
Net transfers                               -1       -1        10        50
Development Economics                                                                                                2/8/00
- 63 -






MAP SECTION






83                                      82                                      81'                                      90-                                      79-                                      78-                                       77I
i  \  X  :   \                NCRsibrE de                                    CA .   j! fr;Nombr, d
RICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Do
R9 Iartobelo-i  +Sono.
p  _  _           P A N A M A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An                                       Cio P08    AN V IGVRAIOD 
83  A83880                                                                                                                                                    O                                        7'                                        7
T RA N SP ORTATIO0N  A ND  R E LI EF                                                            19  PROVINCE CAPITALS                    --PAVED ROADS                                                 -           CU;  -~ DOMIIA
*8    NATIONAL CAP TAL                             GRAVEL AND SERT ROADS                    MEXICO  S  ,BLZ           AfAC
0  ~          80 47     80 60          81&88LET888                                   1.    PORTS OR LANDING PLACES                       ELEVATIONS IN PERT:                     -.         ' . . NONJDIRAS    C8 :51888   i.8
_-G     ARPORTS/LANDING STRIPS               o=          S                                    GUA00L ALVAD ".J
occeprsnceofsucbboundo.ew                                                                                                                C C E j {s                            L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~QR SAVADRRNCAIGU
RIVERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI l,S-,S                                                 9E
TL  8  88~8do 8<88p8~r8 inW,t8,.                                                                                                     ,55-  50CST  IC  )' 
8p8,o,,88,J88888888                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLOMBIA        8-'"
UNITEC) STATES OF AMERICA, ~ ~          APRI 199



