Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7483-PAN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for the Second Basic Education Project
)
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT BANK 
 
Dated October 26, 2007
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7483-PAN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated October 26, 2007, (the Agreement) entered into between REPUBLIC 
OF PANAMA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing a 
Loan (the Loan) to assist in financing the continuation of the activities related to the 
Original Project set forth in the Original Loan Agreement (all as defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Appendix to this Agreement or the Original Loan Agreement.
 
ARTICLE II —    LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of five million Dollars ($5,000,000) as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement (
“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
Page  3
2
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted b
y
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as a 
continuation of the Original Project.  To this end, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out Parts A.1, A.3, B and C of the Project through MEDUCA; 
 
(b) 
carry out Part A.4 of the Project through MEDUCA with the assistance 
of the Construction Implementing Entities; and  
 
(c) 
shall cause IFARHU to carry out Part A.2 of the Project, 
Page  4
3
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
agreement satisfactory to the Bank (the IFARHU Agreement), entered into 
between IFARHU and MEDUCA, acting on behalf of the Borrower, shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of IFARHU to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the 
event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs in respect of any 
provision of the IFARHU Agreement and is continuing for a period of 60 days 
after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan Agreement, but in 
 
no case later than the eighteen (18)
 months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
 
which expire on February 4, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. The 
Borrower
’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
 
Facsímile:  
(507) 507-7200 
 
Page  5
4
6.03. The 
Bank
’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
By /s/ Federico Humbert 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Jane Armitage 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The Project consists entirely of the Original Project which maintains as its 
objectives to: (a) improve the quality and efficiency of Basic Education in the territory of 
the Borrower and, in particular, to improve equity of access to Basic Education; (b) 
expand the coverage of Pre-school Education through community-based, non-formal 
education models; and (c) strengthen the planning, supervision and policy-making 
capacity of MEDUCA. 
 
The Project consists of all the parts previously set forth in the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MEDUCA, shall maintain all the institutional 
arrangements set forth in the Original Project, including the operation of a 
Project coordination unit in MEDUCA, under the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Original Loan Agreement.   
 
 
B. Implementation 
Agreements
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, continue to carry out and 
 
maintain, satisfactory to the Bank, all the terms and conditions of the 
 IFARHU 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall continue to exercise its rights under the IFARHU 
 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.  Except as the 
 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not thenceforward assign, 
 amend, 
abrogate,
 
waive or fail to enforce the IFARHU Agreement or any 
 
of its provisions.
 
2.
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain all the arrangements of the Original Project 
 
relating to the obligations of selected Construction Implementing 
 
Entities, acceptable to the Bank and those of MEDUCA, all as set forth 
 
in the relevant Construction Implementation Agreements. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for relevant new activities related to 
 
implementing the continuation of the Project under this Loan, the 
 
Borrower shall ensure that Construction Implementation Agreements  
 
acceptable to the Bank shall be entered into between MEDUCA and 
 
selected Construction Implementing Entities. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall continue to exercise its rights under each 
 
Construction Implementation Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
 
the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
 
not thenceforward assign, amend, abrogate,
 
waive or fail to enforce the 
 
Construction Implementation Agreements or any of their provisions. 
 
Page  8
7
3. 
The Borrower shall maintain, through MEDUCA, all arrangements pertaining to 
the operation of the PCU and the Project Management Committee, as are set 
forth in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
C. Implementation 
Documents 
 
1. 
The Borrower has adopted,
 
and shall comply with, throughout Project 
implementation, an operational manual dated February 16, 2002 and amended as 
of April 30, 2007, satisfactory to the Bank and consisting of different schedules 
setting forth, respectively, rules, methods, guidelines, specific development 
plans, standard documents and procedures to be maintained in use for the further 
carrying out of the Project.  
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the Operational Manual shall conflict with any 
one under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The Operational Manual may only be amended from time to time
 
in
 
consultation 
with, and after approval of, the Bank. 
 
D. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, each year during Project 
implementation, continue to furnish to the Bank under the terms and conditions 
specified for the Original Project, annual procurement audit reports in respect of 
the Loan. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, under the terms and conditions specified 
for the Original Project, continue to provide evidence to the Bank that sufficient 
resources are allocated yearly in its draft budget law to cover the entire 
counterpart funding requirements of the Project for the year in question. 
 
E. Anti-Corruption
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
F. Safeguards
 
The Borrower, through MEDUCA, shall ensure that the provisions addressing 
 
indigenous peoples concerns in the implementation of the Project as set forth in 
 
the Operational Manual continue to be carried out as agreed with the Bank.  
 
Page  9
8
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MEDUCA, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports as set forth in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Original Loan Agreement, for purposes of 
Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, a single combined report on the 
execution of the Project under the Original Loan Agreement and under the Loan 
Agreement and all related plans required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 2009. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 
of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MEDUCA, prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report 
not later than one month after the end of each calendar semester, interim 
unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MEDUCA, have its Financial Statements for the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods, Works and Non-Consultant Services.  
 All goods, works and Non-
Consultant Services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the 
provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
Page  10
9
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods, works and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding and subject 
to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
prior registration, obtaining a license or an authorization shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures; 
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid.  
 
2
.
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-Consultant 
Services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, works and 
Non-Consultant Services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods
(a)  National Competitive Bidding (NCB)  subject to the following  
 provisions: 
 
(i)   standard bidding documents for NCB, acceptable to the Bank, should 
 be 
used; 
 
(ii)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
 
Page  11
10
Procurement Methods
(iii)  
no
bids or proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall 
 
be
made at the time of bid opening; 
 
(iv)  the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
 
(v)  the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-
 
bid meeting as a condition to bid; and 
 
(vi)  potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids 
 
which should not be less than 30 days, except for commodities and 
 
contracts for small goods and Non-Consultant Services. 
 
(b)  Shopping, subject to the following provisions: 
 
(i)   foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local  
 
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
 
(ii)  a minimum of three quotations shall be obtained as a condition to 
 
award the contract. 
 
(c)  Direct Contracting, subject t
o
the Bank’s prior written consent. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f) Single-Source Selection 
Page  12
11
3
.
Special provisions. 
All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
 carried 
out
 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 
 
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 
 
(c) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to submit their proposals in 
person. 
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be 
subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the  Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the additional categories of Eligible Expenditures 
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:  
 
Page  13
12
 
Category
Amount  
of the Loan  
(expressed in Dollars
)
Percentage of 
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) Works, goods, Non-Consultant 
Services, consultant services and 
Training  for Part 1 of the Project 
(Improvement of Quality and 
Efficiency of Basic Education) 
 
1,935,679 
 
100% 
(2)  Works, Goods, Non-Consultant 
Services, Consultant Services and 
Training  for Part 2:  of the Project 
(Expansion of Non-Formal Pre-
School Education Program) 
 
2,317,009 
 
100% 
(3)  (a) Goods, Non-Consultant 
Services, Consultant Services, 
Training  for Part 3  of the Project 
(Institutional Strengthening) 
 
(b) Operating Costs for Part 3.3 of 
the Project (supervision, 
administration and audit of the 
Project) 
 
534,790 
 
212,522 
 
100% 
 
100%
 
TOTAL  
 
5,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
from the  Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of 
the Front-end Fee  referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 30, 2008. 
Page  14
13
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the   
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn   Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2009 
 
through May 15, 2017 
 
6.25% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
Page  15
14
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn   Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  16
15
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
5. “MEDUCA” 
means 
Ministerio de Educación
,
the Ministry of Education of the 
Borrower, formerly referred to as MIEDUC in the Original Loan Agreement. 
6. 
“Non-Consultant Services” means, in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the 
table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement, the services 
contracted in connection with the carrying out of activities related to the printing 
and production of educational and training materials. 
7. 
“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in operational, 
maintenance (including maintenance of vehicles and PCU computer equipment), 
travel and per diem costs for PCU staff, and administrative costs (including 
employment of administrative PCU staff) that would not have been incurred 
absent the Project; 
8. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank
,
for a Second Basic Education Project, dated January 24, 2001, as 
amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 7032-PAN). 
9. 
“Original Project” means the Project first described in the Original Loan 
Agreement and set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
Page  17
16
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
signed and dated July 03, 2007
 
and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs 
12. 
“Training” means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with 
the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including travel costs and 
per diem of trainees, study tours, rental of facilities and equipment, and training 
materials; but excluding consultant fees. 
 
