Page  1
Conformed copy
December 2,1997
Mr. Guillermo Chapman
Ministro de Planificación y Política Económica
Ministerio de Planificación y Política Económica
Vía España y Calle 52 Este
Apartado Postal 2694
Panamá 3, República de Panamá
 Re:  PANAMA- Japanese Grant for Basic Education II  Project 
Grant TF025498
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding US $450,000 (four hundred and fifty thousand United States Dollars) (the Grant) 
to the Republic of Panama (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and 
on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date 
of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Ms. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Mr. Carlos A. Vallarino, Ministro Encargado
Date:  December 31, 1997
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to finance pre-investment studies and related preliminary work 
necessary for the preparation of the project that is intended: (a) to improve access and quality of basic 
education; and (b) to strengthen the administrative capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Education 
(MOE) and the promotion of community participation in the construction and maintenance of local 
schools (the Project).  
2.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) identification of enrollment trends and alternatives for expanding enrollment in rural and 
marginal urban areas;
(b) determination of projections of infrastructure needs for rehabilitation and new classroom 
construction;
(c) definition of implementation procedures for construction and rehabilitation of public schools;
(d) identification of in-service training needs and curriculum improvements;
(e) assessment of the current levels of community and parent participation in the administration, 
construction and maintenance of schools;
(f) establishment of mechanisms and accountability systems to implement transfer of funds to 
local communities; and
(g) improvement of the current information system of the MOE.
3.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
4.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against 
any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
5.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 1998.  After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
6.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
Page  3
6.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to 
the Bank’s applicable procedures.
7.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
Panama on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
8.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the  Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended.
9.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
