.i I  gi"a
U!I  .0             ,23
RU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C  I-4~~~~~     me~



CURRENCY EQUIVALEZTS
July 1990
Currency Unit: Naira (1)
US$1.00 = 17.952
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEC         District Education Com=4ttee
FNE         Federal Ministry of Education
LGA         Local Government Authority
LGEA        Local Government Education Authority
NCE         National Certificate of Education for Teachers
NCE         National Council of Education
NPEC        National Primary Education Commission
NERDC       Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council
NPEF   -    National Primary Education Fund
NETC        National Educational Technology Center
NTI         National Teachers' Institute
PEU         Primary Education Unit, Federal Ministry of Education
PIU         Project Implementation Unit, Federal Ministry of Education
RFTR        Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal
SMOE        State Ministries of Education
SOEs        Statement of Expenses
SPSMB       State Primary School Management Board
TTC         Teachers Training College
UPE         Universal primary education
VEC         Village Education Committee
WAEC        West African Examination Council
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..... ........                      .............. iii
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR.                                                             1
A. Sectoral Context.                                                              1
B. Issues in Primary Education.                                                   2
C. Government Policies and Strategies.                                            9
D. Bank Sectoral Policy and Strategy .12
E.  Past and Ongoing Bank Operations in Nigeria .14
III. THE PROJECT.15
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Strategies    .             .15
B. Project Description                ..17
1.  Upgrading the Quality of Primary Education .17
2. Improving Resource Allocation .21
3. Increasing Enrollments .22
4. Strengthening Institutions .23
5. Facilitating Future Planning.                                            24
C. Project Costs and Financing              ..28
D. Project Implementation               ..30
1. Project Preparation and Execution .30
2. Monitoring and Evaluation .30
3.  Procurement ............................................,.31
4. Disbursements .33
5. Accounts, Auditing and Reporting .35
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .36
A. Expected Benefits .36
B.  Project Risks and Actions to Minimize Them .36
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .38
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in Nigeria ir February and April 1990.
The missions consisted of E.Nkwanga (senior educator, mission leader), J. Socknat** (lead advisor), J.Woo*
(operations analyst), C.Denning* (book consultant), G.Hedd* (teacher education consultant), and S.Bajah* (research,
monitoring and evaltiation consultant). E.Nkwanga and J.Woo prepared the report, assisted in is processing by
R.Kirubaidoss.
* pre-appraisal mission only        **appraisal mission only
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
APPENDIX 1    MID-TERM PROJECT TARGETS .......         .................  40
ANNEXES
1-1 Basic Data Sheet .                                                        41
2-1 Structure of the Nigerian Education System .                              42
2-2  Organizational Structure of The Federal Ministry of Education .          43
2-3   Organization Chart of The National Primary Education Commission  .   44
2-4  The National Primary Education Fund and Its Administration .             45
2-5 Statistical Profile of Primary Education .                                49
Current National Data .                                             49
Historical Comparative Data .                                       50
2-6 Primary Education Improvement Program .                                   53
3-1 Instructional Materials Component .                                       59
3-2   Programme for the Upgrading of Education Personnel .                    73
3-3  Establishment of a Management Information System .                       81
3-4  Research, Development, Monitoring, and Evaluation .                      83
3-5 Institutional Strengthening and Media Campaign .                          91
3-6 Summary of Project Costs and Financing Plan .                             95
3-7 Consolidated Implementation Schedule .0 lO
3-8 Technical Assistance ..111
3-9 Project's Effect on Recurrent Expenditure .                              116
3-10 Disbursement Profile ...........................-.-.-.117
3-11 Supervision Plan .118
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE .121
MAP
IBRD 22387 - National Primary Education Headquarters and Zonal Offices



- iii -
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIG$RIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SIMIARY
Borrowers              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiaries:         Primary Education Participating Agencies (PAs): All
states and LGAs; Federal Ministry of Education (FME);
National Primary Education Commission (NPEC).
Amount:                 SDR 90.6 million (US$120.0 million equivalent)
Term:s                  Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Prolect
Description:           The proposed project is intended to assist the
government's program for: (a) upgrading the quality of
primary education; (b) improving resource allocation;
(c) increasing enrollments; (d) strengthening
institutions; and (e) facilitating future planning. In
implementing the above objectives the project would:
(a) finance the procurement and distribution of books
and supplementary materials to all schools, and staff
training in their care and use; (b) support measures
being taken to ensure that the share of the federation
account budgeted for the National Primary Education
Fund (NPEP) is maintained at 65 percent of staff
salaries, introduce cost sharing and cost recovery and
reallocate budgets in favor of non-salaried items; (c)
finance training of educational practitioners to
improve curriculum delivery and of equipment to
intensify the primary education enlightenment campaign;
(d) finance vehicles and equipment and the training of
administrative, finance and planning personnel, and
reinforce procurement capacity; and (e) finance a
management information system (MIS), training of
statistics and planning staff, research and monitoring
and evaluation.



- iv-
Benefits:               The proposed project woulds  (a) upgrade the quality of
instruction in over 35,000 primary schools;
(b) increase enrollments; (c) improve resource
allocation on non-salaried items; (d) strengthen the
capacity of institutions providing primary education;
and (e) through an upgraded sectoral information base
and augmented planning capacity, result in better
development Dlans.
Risks;                  The two major risks are mismanagement during the
project and lack of sustainability after project
completion. The first risk is being minimized by
actions -- some already initiated by NPEC -- to improve
accountability, competence and funding and by
strengthening institutions to fulfil their functions
more effectively. The second is being addressed by the
creation of the Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal
(RFTR) to receive government's counterpart
contributions for grant-aided paper and parental
contributions for book use. The proposed project would
also support sustained budgetary allocations to
teaching materials that are essential to boosting
student achievement, maintenance of existing buildings,
and personnel training to upgrade skills.
Economic Rate
of Return:              Not applicable.
Map:                    IBRD No. 22387



Estimated Costs:/A
Local     Foreign      Total
…-- (US$ million) ------
1.  Textbooks                                       15.3        53.1        68.4
2.  Library books                                    1.5         8.4         9.9
3.  Distribution costs                               7.8         0.0         7.8
4.  Vehicles and equipment                           1.9        17.2        19.1
5.  Consultancy services and TA                      0.2         1.3         1.5
6.  Training                                        11.2         0.9        12.1
7.  Research and development                         2.9         0.0         2.9
8.  Monitoring and evaluation                        1.1         0.0         1.1
Total Base Costs                           41.9        80.9       122.8
Physical Contingencies                           %.I        4.0         6.1
Price Contingencies                              8.6       16.2        24.8
Duties and taxes                                 4.7         0.0        4.7
Total Project Costs                        57.2       101.1       158.4
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
----- (US$ million) -
IDA                                            22.8        97.2       120.0
Government of Nigeria                           34.4        0.0        34.4
Government of Japan                              0.0        4.0         4.0
Total                                  57.2      101.1       158.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year           1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997
_---__-------  -(US$ millions) ----------------
Annual                      2.0   19.7   21.4   23.6   23.9     20.0     9.4
Cumulative                 2.0   21.7  43.1   66.7   90.6   110.6   120.0
t Totals may not add due to rounding.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.01    Primary education is central to long-term economic development.  It
is generally the most cost effective of the educational subsectors. More
full-time students are enrolled at this level than at any other, and they are
at most impressionable ages. Hence, primary schools present ideal situations
in which to begin addressing problems that hamper development -- illiteracy,
innumeracy, poverty, hunger, malnutrition, disease, lack of initiative and
productivity. In Nigeria primary education is particularly crucial as it may
be the only exposure many children, especially girls, have to formal
education. For those fortunate enough to proceed further, primary education
should provide the necessary basis for more advanced studies. For all
children it should develop the basic cognitive and social skills and knowledge
required for living. A carefully conceived and implemented primary school
system can provide the foundations for national development and sound economic
growth.
1.02    Unfortunately, the observed quantitative and qualitative decline in
Nigeria's primary education system threatens the nation's future. For some
time local and external observers have remarked on declining enrollments,
dilapidated infrastructure, depreciating educational standards, inefficient
data collection, planning, management and supervision, and inadequate
financial, material and human resources. The Government has recognized the
problems and places high priority on improving primary education.
1.03    In 1988 Government established the National Primary Education Fund
(NPEF) to safeguard staff salaries and provide for infrastructural
rehabilitation and expansion. Simultaneously, the National Primary Education
Commission (NPEC) was established to administer the NPEF and, in order to
improve the quality of education, to set, monitor and evaluate minimum
educational standards. The Government is seeking the World Bank's assistance
in financing the first phase of a primary education improvement scheme through
the proposed Primary Education Project. The project would be implemented by
the Federal Ministry of Education (FME), NPEC, the states and local government
authorities, covering the whole primary education system.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Sectoral Context
2.01    Nigeria's formal education system has a 6-3-3-4 structure (Annex 2-1)
introduced in 1982, with six years of primary education, three years of junior
secondary, three years of senior secondary, and four years of tertiary.
Entrance from lower to higher educational levels is determined by competitive
examinations given by federal and state educational agencies. Primary



- 2 -
education is free according to stated government policy, while fees are
charged in almost all post-primary educational institutions (except in some
northern states where female secondary education is free or subsidized).
2.02    Within the system there are about 35,000 primary schoo's, 5,465
secondary schools (45 federal and 5,120 state), and 30 universities (21
federal, one military and eight state). In addition, there are 120 technical
secondary schools (one federal and 119 state), and 27 post-secondary
polytechnics (ten federal and 17 state). Currently about 13 million students
are enrolled in primary schools, three million in secondary schools, 70,000 in
vocational schools and technical colleges, 60,000 in polytechnics, and 130,000
in federal and state universities.
2.03    Educational facilities expanded rapidly in the 1970s under the
impetus of the oil boom. Subsequent economic decline led to overall resource
deficits and inadequate investment in education, while fast population growth
placed increasing demand on existing physical and human resources. At the
same time, available resources within the sector were not appropriately
deployed for lack of a clearly articulated and economically viable plan for
policy implementation, resulting in an imbalance of resource allocation across
the primary, secondary and tertiary subsectors, and wastage in utilization.
2.04    The roles of the federal, state and local governments for each type
and level of formal education are defined in the 1979 Nigerian Constitution.
The Federal Ministry of Education (FME) (Annex 2-2) is responsible for
formulating educational policy and national development plans, coordinating
national educational practices, exercising quality control, and maintaining
standards among the states. The states are responsible for implementing
policies formulated by the federal government, preparing and adapting
procedures, developing rules, guidelines and manuals, training staff, and
implementing most educational programs. The structures for delivering
education vary widely from state to state. In many states autonomous
organizations have been established to share responsibilities with the state
ministries.
2.05    Until recently, the FME had no responsibility for implemeating policy
at the primary level. Local and state governments were expected to implement
all primary education programs and meet related expenditures (including staff
costs). These accounted for about 70 to 80 percent of local government
revenues.
B. Issues in Primary Education
2.06    Primary education in Nigeria expanded rapidly during the oil boom of
the 1970s. The campaign for universal primary education (UPE), initiated in
1976, pushed primary school enrollment from 6 million in that year to 12
million in 1980, peaking at 14.5 million in 1982. However, following the oil
slump in the 1980s, funding for primary education was drastically reduced, and
enrollment became stagnant and eventually declined. In 1989 there were 12.8
million pupils enrolled in 35,413 schools, representing about 62.3 percent of
the estimated primary school age population.



2.07    The FME had over a period of time noted problems in primary
education. A 1987 Bank study (Nigeria: Primary Education Subsector Study,
Report No. 7389-UNI dated June 30, 1989) by both international and local
consultants commented on and redefined these problems, proposing measures for
their solution. It was evident that reduced subsectoral funding coupled with
rapid population growth had resulted in two basic interrelated problems --
quantitative decline and qualitative deterioration. These are discussed in
the following paragraphs; basic data are presented in Annex 2-5.
2.08    Inadequate financing for primary education.  The National Policy on
Education (1981) declared primary education to be free and universal. What
exactly was to be free and to whom remains the subject of debate. The
original concept was that books and other supplies would be provided out of
public funds; tne role of parents and communities in providing additional
resources was not specified but was presumed to be minor or supplementary.
Subsequent government committees largely agreed that "free' meant only freedom
from the obligation to pay fees.  Committees and educators have acknowledged
that while teachers' salaries should be provided out of public funds, parents
and communities have important obligations.  The issue is how to distribute
the burden equitably.  Government policy on this point has varied over time.
2.09    In 1981, the federal government withdrew totally from direct
financing of primary education, apart from small contributions in the form of
special grants. Education as a share of total federal expenditures fell from
21 percent (1781 million) in 1981 to an estimated 13 percent in 1988. Within
the education sector, there was an i.oalance in resource allocation, with
primary education receiving relatively less than other subsectors, especially
tertiary. Per capita public recurrent expenditure at federal universities was
over 50 times that at the primary level in 1985. Only 20 percent of federal
capital expenditures on education in the Fifth National Plan (1988-92) are
destined for primary education.
2.10    In principle, federal withdrawal was to be compensated by the
increased revenues given to state and local governments, which became
responsible for primary education under the new constitution. In practice,
the new financing scheme proved unworkable, and funding for primary education
was often neglected amidst competing claims on limited resources of state and
local governments. The brunt of the financial burden and other
responsibilities fell on local governments which were weak, did not always
receive their statutory 10 percent share of federal and state revenues in
periods of falling oil prices, and in many areas had been under political
pressure to give up traditional sources of revenue such as the cattle and
community taxes. Contribution from state governments was inadequate, with
allocations for education directed largely toward secondary, technical and
higher levels. Many state governments resorted to such ad hoc fund-raising
measures as fees, levies and semi-mandatory "contributions" by parents. By
1984 tuition fees had been introduced in two-thirds of the states. In Bauchi,
Kaduna and Ogun all taxable adults were required to pay a levy of 110 to 125,
a practice which was introduced later in other states. These levies were
either reduced or abolished in 1986 when revenues increased following
depreciation of the naira.



2.11    Inadequate financing of primary education has slowed down the UPE
campaign. School buildings have been inadequately maintained and, in some
areas, are insufficient to accommodate the number of pupils (para. 2.13).
Teacher morale is low owing to poor conditions of service and irregular salary
payments (para. 2.21). There is severe shortage of textbooks, teaching and
learning aids, and other instructional materials (para. 2.17). From 1982,
teachers' salaries began falling into arrears. Parents started to withdraw
their children from school -- sometimes so they could work, sometimes because
of fees the state and local governments were charging to cover their costs,
sometimes because parents perceived the education system as offering less and
less. This manifested itself in falling enrollments (para. 2.14).
2.12    Deteriorating infrastructure and physical resources.  The number of
primary schools in Nigeria increased from 20,924 in 1975/76 to 38,211 in
1983/84 and was reduced to 35,433 in 1985/86 following budget cuts and
declining enrollments. The average school size rose from 295 pupils in
1975/76 to 387 pupils in 1982/83, and fell to about 364 pupils in 1985/86.
Schools range in size from about 240 pupils to 1,440 pupils. Class size
generally averages 40-45 in large urban areas, and 20-30 in less populated
areas.
2.13    The physical environment in a typical Nigerian primary school is not
conducive to learning. School buildings are dilapidated, with inadequate
toilets, roofs, fences, playgrounds, furniture, and storage facilities. There
are too few classrooms, and those that exist usually need repairs and
painting. When there are not enough facilities, up to four "schools" may
share the same urban premises, with classrooms used on a shift basis and some
accommodating as many as 100-250 pupils. It is estimated that there is a
shortage of at least 65,000 classrooms. Moreover, about 70,000 classrooms
need replacing, perhaps 30 percent in the north and 15-20 percent elsewhere.
This means Nigeria needs 135,000 classrooms, which at an estimated unit cost
of N50,000 would involve a capital expenditure of U7.5 billion.
2.14    Falling school enrollments, provisional imbalances and declininR
progression rates. In the mid-1980s, primary school enrollments fell in
absolute terms and as a percentage of the estimated primary school age
population. Enrollment peaked at 14.5 million in 1982, representing an
enrollment ratio of 92 percent. By 1985/86, enrollment had fallen to 12.9
million, while the enrollment ratio dropped to 75 percent. Nominal enrollment
stagnated until 1989. Current enrollments stand at about 13 million,
representing 62 percent of the estimated primary school age population.
2.15    The national average conceals continuing differences in enrollment
ratios by state and between sexes. The enrollment ratios remained lowest in
the northern states, higher in the middle and highest in the southern states,
though the drive for UPE particularly improved enrollment in the north. The
disparity in enrollment ratios between the sexes persists, with enrollment
ratios of 84 percent for males and 67 percent for females in 1985/86.
Government has identified conditions responsible for the low participation of
girls in education and has, through the FME Women Education Unit, made efforts
to provide more educational opportunities for girls, create public and
parental awareness of the need for female education, reorient female attitudes
towards education, encourage positive self-images, and promote the education



of girls in science, mathematics and technology. These efforts, although not
confined to primary education, do appear to have increased female
participation, especially in the northern states where ¶' was lowest.
Recently, a new problem has arisen in some southeastern states with boys being
withdrawn from primary schools to participate in the local economy to
supplement family incomes.
2.16    Of every 100 students entering class 1 in the first UPE intake in
1976/77, 61 reached class 6 in 1981/82. This num er declined to 57 in
1984/85, with progression rates between classes stabilizing around 85-90
percent. The reasons for the low progression rates include abandonment of the
policy of automatic promotion by a few states, thus increasing repetitions and
pushouts; and an increase in the number of dropouts in response to the
imposition of school fees and levies and the overall economic and employment
situation.
2.17    Insufficient primary school textbooks.  There is a serious shortage
of textbooks in schools. Primary school textbooks are selected by state
ministries of education, which list three or four recommended books in each
subject from which schools and local education authorities can make
selections. These books may be prepared by individual Nigerian aut-hors,
groups of local subject specialists, or federal and state educational and
research agencies. Books are purchased either independently by parents from
local bookshops, or in bulk by the state from publishers at a discount and
then resold or distributed free of charge to students. There is sufficient
publishing capacity and expertise in Nigeria to meet all primary school
requirements. However, despite the availability in the primary system of more
than 300 titles, children generally have limited access to textbooks in
schools, and the standards of book conservation, usage, and management are
low. Textbook provision has been affected by: (a) the limited purchasing
power of parents; (b) insufficient funds allocated to state educational
agencies, some of which still owe debts to publishers dating back to 1980/81;
(c) the piracy of school book titles which seriously undermines the structure
of the commercial book trade and pushes up the prices of legitimate books; and
(d) the increasing cost of textbook production, of which imported paper and
printing material and equipment are major components.  A Book Sector Study was
commissioned by the FME, funded and managed by the World Bank with additional
funds from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the UK, and
carried out by the British Council, the Book Developmen. Council and Nigerian
consultants. Findings from this study, which were presented at a conference
in Lagos in February, 1990, provided background information for the textbook
and library book components of the project.
2.18    Deficient primary school library provision.  Supplementary materials
are essential to sustain interest and enhance learning, but these are hardly
available in primary schools in Nigeria. Of eight schools visited by a Bank
mission in 1987, only three made any provision for a school library. Books
were very few, most of the titles were unsuitable, and only in one school was
any attempt made to record the issuing and return of books. While government
education policy requires that class/school library resources be provided,
scant evidence exists of serious planning about how this should be
implemented, what it would cost, or what it would mean in terms of training
and teaching.



- 6 -
2.19    Lack of educational technology and instructional aids.  There was
virtually no evidence of educational technology in any of the primary schools
visited by Bank missions. In one or two public schools there were vestiges of
old wall charts and cardboard clocks. In many schools even the most
rudimentary essential teaching aids like chalk and a smooth surfaced
chalkboard were absent. That learning sids could be developed was supported
by the up-to-date teacher-made charts displayed in private schools. The
National Educational Technology Center (NETC) produces radio and television
programs which it offers to state broadcasting stations, but its facilities
have become run down and grossly underutilized. Some states have resource
centers such as those in Kano and Zaria, which offer in-service courses for
teachers, provide consulting and library services, produce and supply
instructional materials, and maintain a teachers' workroom for producing cheap
teaching aids. Most of these centers, however, are now constrained by
inadequate financing, accommodation problems, shortage of qualified staff, and
constant changes of leadership.
2.20    Primary school teachers and their education.  There have been
increasing problems with the quality, supply, distribution and motivation of
teachers. The number of primary school teachers increased from 177,221 in
1975/76 to 383,989 in 1982/83, and declined to about 303,000 in 1985/86.
Government policy allows for a maximum class size of 40 pupils. The average
pupil-teacher ratio was 38:1 in 1982/83 and ranged from 41:1 to 44:1 in
1985/86, with considerable variation from state to state. There is a shortage
of teachers, with the number of teachers per class declining from 1.24 in
1980/81 to 0.95 in 1983/84. As a result of government initiatives to
guarantee salary payments to teachers over the past year (para. 2.39), the
number of teachers has increased to 368,191 at the end of 1989.
2.21    In the traditional classroom teachers are one of the chief
determinants of educational achievement. They are also the most expensive
educational input in Nigeria, representing at least 90 percent of recu.rent
costs at the primary level. Teachers in the public primary school svstem are
employed and paid under the Unified Civil Service Regulations. Since the
early 1980s financial restrictions have limited promotions and delayed salary
payments, which has lowered teacher morale. The low salaries, uncertainty of
payment, poor working conditions and possibility of retrenchment are major
obstacles to the recruitment of qualified teachers.
2.22    The qualifications of primary school teachers vary widely in Nigeria.
Nationwide about 60 percent of the teachers are officially qualified. Most of
them hold the Grade 11 teachers' certificate awarded to post-junior secondary
students following a course at a teachers training college (TTC). Only about
6 percent of primary school teachers, frequently heads of schools, hold the
Nigerian Certificate in Education (NCE). The NCE program is a three-year
course for senior secondary school graduates, offered at 55 Colleges of
Education and Advanced Teachers' Colleges throughout Nigeria. About 100,000
teachers are officially unqualified or underqualified, especially in the north
and, to a lesser extent, ir. the middle states. Clearly this affects the
quality of education in those states and the standardization of educational
achievement throughout Nigeria. Fragmented evidence reveals that teachers
lack the necessary background and innovative skills for effective teaching.
They are especially ill-equipped to teach science and mathematics. Some of



the more effective teachers transfer to the private schools where conditions
are generally better than in government schools.
2.23    Most teachers are trained in state TTCs where the quality of
instruction is a major problem. The failure rate for the 1987 Grade II
certificate examination was 71 percent, with stuients who studied through
distance education performing marginally better than those in TTCs. I' Data
from 14 states indicate that in 1985186 the qualifications of many of the
5,167 TTC instructors were generally unacceptable. Only 30 percent of 4,500
instructors in 12 states had an undergraduate degree with teaching
qualifications; 12 percent held postgraduate degrees with no professional
qualifications; and about 49 percent had NCE diplomas. In colleges
insufficient attention is given to primary school content, pedagogy, and
teaching practice, and there is a shortage of instructional materials and
textbooks.
2.24    Because of the inadequacy of their initial training, teachers need
constant upgrading. Several in-service programs are already in place to
upgrade the quality of primary school teachers. Nevertheless, there is a need
for more and better in-service training facilities, not only for teachers but
also for school heads and supervisors.
2.25    Overloaded primary school curriculum.  The curriculum, which is based
on the National Policy on Education (1981), includes 13 subjects. About 60
percent of a 38-period school week is devoted to English, mathematics and
science. The medium of instruction in classes one to three is the local
language. In the last few years FME has standardized primary school
curriculum nationally for the English language, science, mathematics, social
studies, home economics and the thr3e major Nigerian languages (Hausa, Igbo or
Yoruba). Curriculum development is excellent, based on modern approaches to
curriculum design and are comprehensively presented. However, there are too
many subjects at the primary level to be covered adequately. Furthermore,
curriculum content is not always relevant, as for instance a discussion of
electricity in class one social studies in remote rural areas. There is need
to define the aims and goals of primary education in practical terms, review
the relevance of the curriculum in the context of Nigeria's rich and diverse
cultures and geographic conditions, and develop materials and methods
appropriate to the current school situation.
2.26    Inadequate inspection and supervision.  The poor quality of Nigerian
primary education and the dearth of human, physical and instructional
resources in the schools are due, in part at least, to the lack of quality
control. The supervision of primary schools has been a problem because of the
cumbersome administrative structure and inadequate financial and physical
resources. Primary school inspectorates are affiliated with the local
government, usually under the control of the local Education Council.
U   This is a good comparative indicator of teacher quality as the level of
this examination is comparable to teacher certificate examinations
elsewhere in Africa, but its content, like the instructional materials
used by Nigerian teachers in training, is more theoretically oriented
than in many other countries.



- 8 -
Generally, one inspector is assigned to 25 to 30 schools, and is expected to
visit a school at least once a term and conduct a full inspection annually.
In reality schools are visited only once a year at most, full inspections are
rare, and inspections that do occur often focus on administrative and
organizational problems rather than address professional concerns such as
advising teachers. The number of inspectors is insufficient for the number of
schools to be visited, and the responsibilities of inspectors are many and
diffuse. Field work has been further limited by inadequate funding, which led
to the discontinuation of allowances for transportation, travel and housing
and motor vehicle loans previously available to inspectors. Working
conditions and career development opportunities for inspectors are worse than
for other employees in the education sector, which has made it difficult to
attract experienced heads and teachers to the job.
2.27    Educational statistics and quality indicators.  Effective sectoral
analysis and efficient planning have been adversely affected by the lack of
reliable current statistics and the absence of all but a few quantitative and
qualitative educational indicators. Since 1983 a UNESCO-sponsored project has
been introducing measures to collect and disseminate reliable school
statistics. A major step forward was the introduction in 1987 of an annual
primary school census. This includes data gathering, scrutiny, verification
and presentation. The exercise is supported by brief familiarization courses
on the need to record and present accurate statistics in an attempt to
depoliticize data gathering in the interests of development. A further
improvement was publication of a primary school teachers' register by the
National Teachers' Institute (NTI). Despite these major advances data
collection, storage, analysis and use for informed planning are constrained at
both federal and state levels by a shortage of appropriately-deployed trained
personnel, a lack of transportation for verification purposes, and a dearth of
computer hardware and nationally standardized software.
2.28    Ineffective research and evaluation.  Research and evaluation are
essential to educational development: research as a basis for planning, and
evaluation to gauge the effectiveness of the programs.
2.29    Educational research covering a broad range of educational levels and
issues proliferates in Nigeria. Chief among those engaged in research on
primary education are the National Educational Research and Development
Council (NERDC) and the institutes of education. Research at NERDC is closely
linked to curriculum development and the production of syllabuses, textbooks
and materials. The institutes of education conduct applied research to
develop teaching methods and curriculum, concentrating recently on science,
mathematics and language education. Some findings are shared through national
professional organizations and research conferences, but much of the topical
research is not coordinated nationally, resulting in substantial gaps in
knowledge and understanding as well as much duplication of effort.
2.30    Three levels of educational evaluation are found in Nigeria:  (a) the
formal, highly organized examination of students at different levels and for
different purposes; (b) various ad hoc commissions, inquiries and panels set
up to investigate specific issues and make recommendations; and (c) several
uncoordinated individual or group research studies conducted in universities
and by groups like NERDC, the West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) and the



- 9 -
Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER). The National
Policy on Education stresses the role of assessment in primary education,
particularly the need to continuously assess student performance in the
classroom rather than judge a child in one competitive examination. Under
current plans, the school leaving examination will eventually be replaced by
continuous assessment, with certification done by the schools, but it is
unclear if teachers will be able to cope with the complexities and volume of
work required, or reach comparable standards between schools.
2.31    Management structure.  There is need for clear delineation of
responsibilities for primary education at the different levels of government.
Over the past decades the distinctions between federal, state and local
responsibilities had become increasingly blurred, leading to duplication of
functions, administrative inefficiency, and diversion of educational funds to
administrative costs. The problems were especially acute at the level of
local governments, which were given the bulk of responsibilities for
implementing primary education programs but did not have control over their
own funds or the institutional capacity to effectively carry out their
functions. In some states primary education was placed under the Ministry of
Local Government instead of the Ministry of Education. In the last two years,
the government has made considerable progress in its attempt to address these
issues (para. 2.40).
C. Government Policies and Strategies
2.32    Various committees of experts in Nigeria have reviewed policies and
strategies for the primary education subsector. They were all interested in
restoring the federal government's direct role in primary education,
especially in paying teachers' salaries, and perceived the FME playing an
active ro'a in supervising all aspects of primary education. The general
concern was that primary education funding should be protected from
fluctuations in general revenues and from the encroachments of other sectors
or subsectors. It was also observed that the state and local governments were
clearly having difficulties in fulfilling their con3titutional
responsibilities, and that they reneged on payment of teachers' salaries when
faced with competing demands on their limited financial resources.
2.33    In 1986, the federal government resumed direct participation in the
subsector and granted 1105 million for primary school rehabilitation
throughout the country. In 1987, the Minister of Education undertook an
extensive tour of the country's educational institutions. Appalled by what he
saw in primary schools, he convinced government of the need for more funding
for primary education. In 1988 130 million was allocated to FME to help
primary schools, and 1300 million was allocated to local governments for
various projects including primary school rehabilitation. A further N70
million was allocated for books in 1989. The federal government has continued
to demonstrate its commitment to education, and in the first ten months of
1990 has made available K1.075 billion in extra-budgetary allocation for the
rehabilitation of 21 federal universities, 450 secondary schools, all federal
and state colleges of education and polytechnics, and the National Library of
Nigeria.



- 10 _
2.34    In March 1988 the government approved a revised strategy for the
development of primary education, with the following key elements:
(a) the government recognized that there was an urgent need to salvage
primary education, that federal participation would be in the highest
national interest and would be consistent with the present
constitutional injunctions and divisions of responsibility;
(b) a National Primary Education Fund would be established, into which
the federal government would contribute annually an amount equivalent
to 65 percent of the calculated cost of primary school salaries, to
be taken directly from the federal government's share of the
federation account;
(c) appropriate provisions would be made to ensure that each level of
government make its own contributions and that funds be passed onto
the local government and at that level be used specifically for the
purpose of primary education;
(d) a National Primary Education Commission would be established as a
parastatal of FME to coordinate and supervise the development of
primary education, and to advise the federal government on funding
required; and
se) specific mechanisms would be set up at the state and local government
levels to ensure funding and efficient management of primary
education.
The Decree incorporating these decisions was promulgated in August 1988. It
authorizes the establishment of the National Primary Education Commission
(NPEC), the National Primary Education Fund (NPEF) and the Primary Education
Interim Fund, and outlines the structure and functions of primary school
management institutions to be established at state, local, district and
village levels. Over the past two years the federal government has allocated
N1.6 billion to the NPEF.
2.35    National Primary Education Commission.  Under the supervision of FME,
NPEC has broad-ranging powers to effect improvements in primary education.
These include: prescribing natioial standards for primary education;
inquiring into and advising the ..:deral government on the funding of primary
education; receiving and allocating the NPEF to the appropriate body
designated by each state and Abuja and to any agency responsible for special
primary school projects sponsored by the federal government; collating, in
consultation with state govet'ments, periodic master plans for balanced and
coordinated development; and collating, analyzing and publishing information
on primary education in Nigeria.
2.36    The NPEC began work in January 1989 and was formally inaugurated in
April 1989. Over the past year it has carried out an impressive work program
to rehabilitate the primary education system and motivate efforts to establish
the new framework at the state and local government levels. Its management
and disbursement of the NPEF was effective and efficient (para. 2.38).
Meetings were held with state and local government agencies to ensure that the



- 11 -
federal Decree was understood and appropriately carried out. Workshops were
conducted for state and local government officials on accounting procedures.
NPEC's monitoring and evaluation officers visited all the states and Abuja to
assess the progress made, including the operation of the state and local
agencies, the construction and rehabilitation of classrooms, procurement and
utilization of instructional materials, recruitment and posting of teaching
and non-teaching staff, and effective accounting and utilization of funds.
Statistics on primary schools were collected and compiled. Teachers were
trained through workshops and seminars on record management, continuous
assessment, and library use. These efforts have already brought visible
improvements in the system: regular payment of primary school salaries was
guaranteed; new classrooms were built and old buildings renovated; and
instructional material, for which allocation was increased from 11.5 to N5.00
per pupil, was being acquired for primary schools.
2.37    The NPEC itself has expanded rapidly to cope with these functions.
Four departments (Administration, Finance, Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Planning, Research and Statistics) were established and have since been
strengthened considerably with appropriate personnel and offices. To help
coordinate and monitor activities in the states, four zonal offices were set
up around the country. Under the current plan, NPEC is expected to operate at
full capacity by 1992/93 (Annex 2-3).
2.38    National Primary Education Fund (NPEF) and the Interim Development
Fund. The NPEF consists of the federal government's contribution equivalent
to 65 percent of the calculated salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff in
primary schools. For the next ten years 80 percent of the federal
contribution is to be shared among the 21 states and Abuja, and the remaining
20 percent to be set aside annually for an Interim Development Fund to be used
for capital development of primary schools in 12 educationally disadvantaged
states. v  Allocation to each state and Abuja is on the basis of equality
and population. The NPEC is required to monitor the use of funds and
empowered to withhold annual appropriations if it is not satisfied that money
disbursed earlier was used in accordance with the provisions of the federal
Decree.
2.39    In 1989 the federal government contributed 1800 million, state
governments N620 million and local governments 1921 million towards the
funding of primary education. The NPEC supervised the administration and use
of these funds. Before it released the quarterly federal contribution to each
state, it required the submission of evidence that (a) state and local
gevernment contributions have been deposited into specified bank accounts at
the state and local levels; (b) the salary bill for teaching and non-teaching
staff has been paid; V and (c) satisfactory accounting and proper
v' The 12 educationally disadvantaged states are: Bauchi, Benue, Borno,
Cross River, Gongola, Kaduna, Katsina, Kano, Niger, Plateau, Rivers and
Sokoto.
S   From 1990 NPEC has also been given responsibility for the teaching and
non-teaching staff pension scheme. Steps are being taken to ensure that
staff receive pensions due them from the existing Local Gevernment
Pension Fund.



- 12 -
reconciliation of previous allocations have been made. States eligible for
the Interim Development Fund were required to submit master plans of the
capital projects for approval. In 1989 some states were able to meet these
conditions promptly, but others took more time. By the end of the year,
states had been familiarized with the procedures, and most were able to
receive their fourth quarterly subventions on time (Annex 2-4). In 1990 the
federal government agair. budgeted N800 million for the NPEF.
2.40    State and local institutions.  The federal decree mandated the
following institutions to be set up: (a) Primary School Management Boards
(SPSMBs) in each state; (b) Local Government Education Authorities (LGEAs) in
each local government area; (c) District Education Committees (DECs) in each
district of the local government area; and (d) Village Education Committees
(VECs) in each village in the district.   The SPSMBs are in charge of
disbursement of funds from both federal and state sources, personnel
management, approval of annual budgetary estimates and proposals from the
LGEAs, training of teaching and non-teaching staff, etc. The LGEAs carry out
the day-to-day administration of primary schools in its area of jvtrisdiction.
The DECs and VECs advise the LGEAs on personnel matters, necessary repairs and
renovation to school buildings and provision of teaching equipment and
materials. They also have responsibility for promoting and encouraging
communal interest and participation in the running of primary schools.
2.41    Most states had established SPSMBs and LGEAs by the end of the second
quarter in 1989. The NPEC held regular meetings with the officials of the
SPSMBs and LGEAs to discuss the implementation of the federal Decree, the
disbursement of funds, the procedures for budget preparations and financial
reports, and the areas of improvement in primary education. DECs and VECs are
in the process of being constituted in many areas, but some of them have begun
to hold meetings to deliberate on ways to improve parents' attitude towards
education and are credited with improvements in enrollment, especially of
female pupils in the northern states.
D. Bank Sectoral Policy and Strategy
2.42    A Bank policy study, Education in Sub-Saharan Africa:  Policies for
Adjustment, Revitalization and Expansion (1988), embraces a policy framework
that incorporates the following strategies: (a) adjustment to current
demographic and fiscal realities through diversification of sources of
financing and containment of unit costs; (b) revitalization of existing
educational infrastructure to restore and improve quality, with a renewed
commitment to academic standards, an efficient mix of educational inputs, and
greater investment in the operation and maintenance of physical plant and
equipment to increase their utilization; and (c) selective expansion to follow
after measures of adjustment and revitalization have begun to take hold,
concentrating on renewed progress toward the long-term goal of universal
primary education, distance education programs, job-related in-service
training, and research and postgraduate education.
2.43    In primary education, the policy study recognizes that there is only
limited scope for adjustment in the form of either lowered unit costs or
increased cost sharing. It points out, however, that there is good potential



- 13 -
for improving the quality of primary education by changing the input mix to
include more textbooks and learning materials. A prerequisite for both
quality improvement and system expansion in African education is the assured
availability of non-salary recurrent inputs. This is especially critical in
countries where recent fiscal constraints and persistent pressures to expand
enrollments have combined to distort the balance between salary and non-saJary
expenditure. The study recommends that a minimum package of textbooks and
instructional materials be provided to schools, if productive use is to be
made of the other much more costly recurrent inputs into education (i.e.,
teachers' and students' time). Other possibilities for improving quality are
school feeding and health programs, intensive use of radio, in-service
education of teachers in subject matter, and strong systcams of inspection and
supervision. A Bank policy paper specifically for primary education in
developing countries has been approved by the Board of Executive Directors.
2.44    The Bank also recognizes that improvement in education management is
a necessary concomitant to policy reform and must be given immediate and
continuing attention. This should be done not only in central ministries but
also at the level of individual sC±ools and districts. Greater authority
should be given to headteachers and local communities in the acquisition and
use of the resources essential to effective classroom teaching and learning.
Central ministries should focus on management development needs, especially in
the areas of performance monitoring and policy planning and analysis.
Necessary measures include improvements in examination systems, in the nature
and timely availability of statistical and financial accounting information,
and in the numbers and qualifications of staff engaged in full-time analytical
work. The need to strengthen information systems and basic statistics,
including social and demographic data, is also emphasized in another Bank
study, Sub-Saharan Africa: From Crisis to Sustainable Growth (1989).
2.45    While the Bank's education sector strategy in Nigeria emphasizes
primary education as the foundation for all human resource development, it
stresses the need to upgrade personnel skills and improve the quality of
provision at all educational levels, increase access and equity at primary
level, increase overall sectoral funding, raise internal and external
effectiveness and efficiency, develop middle level manpower, provide a sound
university education, and improve planning, management and quality control
throughout the sector. Because of its importance to development and the
overall decline in its provision, primary education improvement must be
considered a priority. In both conceptualization and design the proposed
project fits well with Bank strategies since it has been influential in
capacity building by challenging and training local personnel and involving
them in the identification and solution of sectoral problems. Also, it aims
at (a) improving the quality of education by raising the level, caliber and
use of human and material inputs; (b) increasing participation; (c) improving
sustainable funding and raising the proportion contributed to non-salaried
items, coupled with more equitable distribution and efficient utilization; (d)
strengthening planning and implementation through the development of more
valid and reliable data bases, action-oriented research and staff training;
(e) raising motivation, commitment and accountability by improving working
conditions and assuring timely remuneration; and (f) enhancing quality control



- 14 -
based on the introduction and facilitation of regular monitoring and
evaluation.
E.  Past and Ongoing Bank Operations in Nigeria
2.46    Prior to 1987 the Bank had a limited role in Nigeria's educational
development. The Bank Group financed three projects in education, all of
which are now completed, for a total of US$91.3 million. The First Education
Project (Cr. 72-UNI for US$20.0 million equivalent, signed on March 1, 1965
and closed on December 31, 1977; PPAR No. 2498 dated May 7 1979) assisted in
increasing secondary school enrollments particularly in northern Nigeria,
diversifying the secondary school curriculum, and increasing the number of
secondary and technical teachers and trained craftsmen and technicians. The
Second Education Project (Loan 814-UNI for US$17.3 million equivalent, signed
on April 18, 1972 and closed on December 31, 1979; PPAR No. 3681 dated
November 16, 1981) assisted in the rehabilitation of war-damaged comprehensive
secondary schools in eastern Nigeria, as well as the training of technical
subject teachers and secondary school curriculum development. The Third
Education Project (Loan 929-UNI for US$54.0 million equivalent, signed on
August 16, 1973 and closed December 31, 1982; PPAR No. 5178 dated June 29,
1984) assisted the northern states to expand primary teacher training
facilities and increase secondary school enrollments. The performance of
these three projects, of which US$16.8 equivalent of Loan 929-UNI was
cancelled, suffered from: (a) weak management and implementation capabilities
of state governments; (b) low quality and over-burdened construction industry;
(c) poor communications; (d) uncertainties in the supply of materials,
equipment and furniture; (e) complex and inefficient federal-state financial
arrangements; and (f) poor project design involving too many project
institutions scattered over a vast area.
2.47    After a decade of virtually no involvement in education in Nigeria, a
meaningful policy dialogue was resumed in the late 1980s through sector work
on all levels of the formal system, highlighting issues of educational quality
and financing. A Technical Education Project (Loan 2926-UNI for US$23.3
million equivalent, signed on July 1, 1988) was devised to assist government's
program for improving the quality and efficiency of middle-level technical
institutions and strengthening planning, management and coordination of
technical and vocational education. Project design was deliberately simple
and iimited in scope to avoid the implementation problems encountered in the
projects of the previous decades. Implementation is progressing well and
disbursements are on schedule. A Federal Universities Development Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2139 for SDR 93.5 million, signed on July 18, 1990)
supports a major ongoing reform and rationalization of the federal university
system by improving the effectiveness of teaching and research, increasing
non-governmental income to universities, and making the institutions more cost
effective and efficient. The Credit became effective on October 12, 1990, and
implementation is largely on schedule.
2.48    The importance of primary education is reinforced by the findings of
a Bank-managed study, conducted in Ibadan in 1989, on education and training
for skills and income in the urban informal sector. The study found that the
acquisition of at least primary education seemed to be important as a means of



- 15 -
acquiring essential lifetime skills in the informal sector. It noted that
declines in primary education enrollment will have high social costs and
advises that the issue requires urgent attention to determine more precisely
why enrollments have collapsed and provide justification for project support.
2.49    During preparation of the proposed Primary Education Project, to
minimize problems experienced in previous projects, considerable attention was
given to building commitment and to monitoring development of implementational
capacity of NPEM and its cooperating institutions. National consensus and
commitment to primary education exist; capacity is judged to be adequate for
project implementation.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01    The proposed Primary Education Project is based upon sector work
carried out in 1987 and discussed with goverrment in 1988. The grey cover
report, Nigeria: Primary Education Subsector Studv (Report No. 7389-UNI,
dated June 30, 1989), identified the following as major problems in Nigeria's
primary education system: (a) quantitative and qualitative decline; (b)
underfinancing; (c) inefficient control and management; (d) non-availability
of human and material resources; and (e) imbalances in access and equity. A
key ingredient of the proposed project would be the provision of textbooks,
supplementary materials and instructional aids.   These would be supported by
training programs for educational practitioners, supervisors and managers to
effect short-term improvements, and by research and a manageaient information
system to provide the basis for long-term development.
A. Project Rationale. Obiectives and StrateRies
3.02    Rationale for undertaking a primary education proiect.  For some
years primary education has suffered from inadequate financial, human and
material resource allocations and increasing population pressures. As a
result primary school children have been deprived of the good quality
education which would develop sufficiently sustainable skills and knowledge to
enable them to contribute to society and improve the quality of their own
lives. Many pupils are learning under intolerable conditions in overcrowded,
dilapidated or unsafe buildings, with little or no furniture, few textbooks,
and limited teaching/learning aids while being taught by teachers with minimal
skills and low motivation. Government's response to this situation was to
increase funding to the subsector through the National Primary Education Fund
and to create the National Primary Education Commission to administer the Fund
and ensure that major sectoral problems were addressed through a primary
education improvement program. There is every indication that these
strategies will succeed in improving the quality and coverage of the
subsector.   They have begun to take effect in that teachers are receiving
their salaries when due, infrastructure is being expanded and renovated,
increased allocations for instructional materials have resulted in improved
classroom supplies of chalk, exercise books and attendance registers, and some
staff training has been introduced.



- 16 -
3.03    NPEC's commitment, institutional capacity and ability to work
effectively under pressure are evident in the efficient, rigorous and
innovative manner in which the organization has administered the NPEF,
enlightened and mobilized the states and local governments, planned and
developed its own structure and functions, and responded to numerous demands
upon its resources. Its forward-looking strategy includes a costed five-year
Dlan of action to improve primary education. In addition to safeguarding
staff salaries, improving infrastructure, and sustaining a reasonable level of
essential school supplies, the plan emphasizes the provision of quality
educational inputs such as books and supplementary materials; personnel skills
upgrading; subsectoral data base improvement; minimum standards for the
subsector; institutional strengthening; and regular monitoring and evaluation
with incentives for outstanding performance. There is a shortfall in the
resources available for plan implementation. Government has requested an IDA
credit to cover this resource gap in the short term in anticipation that
improvements in primary education can be decentralized and self-perpetuating
beyond the six-year life span of the proposed project.
3.04    Proiect obiectives.  The overall objective of the proposed credit is
to assist the Government's program for: (a) upgrading the quality of primary
education; (b) improving resource allocation; (c) increas'ag enrollments; (d)
strengthening institutions; and (e) facilitating future planning.
3.05    Proiect strategies.  The following strategies would be used in
pursuance of the above objectives:
(a) to upgrade the quality of primary education, the project would (i)
provide books and supplementary materials; (ii) improve curriculum
delivery; and (iii) improve the care and use of books and
supplementary materials;
(b) to improve resource allocation, the project would (i) ensure that the
share of the federation account budgeted for NPEP is maintained at a
satisfactory level, (ii) reinforce cost sharing and community
participation, and (iii) reallocate budgets in favor of non-salaried
items;
(c) to help increase enrollments, the project would support the NPEC's
media campaign;
(d) to strengthen the NPEC, SPSMBs, LGEAs, PIU, PEU, and higher level
educational institutions, the project would (i) train educational
practitioners and administrative, finance and planning personnel,
using higher level institutions; (ii) supply equipment and vehicles;
and (iii) strengthen PIU's procurement capacity; and
(e) to facilitate future planning, the project would (i) install
management information systems, (ii) train statistics and planning
staff, (iii) support phased action-type research, and (iv) apply a
scheme to monitor and evaluate progress toward quantitative and
qualitative objectives.



- 17 -
3.06    Participating agencies.  This project will benefit all public primary
schools in Nigeria.  It will be implemented by the National Primary Education
Commission (NPEC) on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Education (FME). The
NPEC, however, will delegate responsibility for some component3 to the State
Primary School h4anagement Boards (SPSMBs) and to the Local Government
Education Authorities (LGEAs). These may, at their discretion and as required
by Decree 31 of 1988, enlist the assistance of the District Education
Committees (DECs) and of the Village Educacion Committees (VECs) especially in
areas such as cost sharing and community participation. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of FME, which has been gaining experience of
procurement during implementation of the Technical Education Project, will be
responsible for procurement of goods and services.
B. Proiect Description
1. UDpradiny the Quality of Primary Education
(a) Provision of Books and Supplementary M(aterials
3.07    In response to the extremely low level of instructional materials in
the schools and because of the important role these materials play in
learning, the project's major focus is the provision of textbooks, library
books and other instructional aids. In particular, the low level of textbook
provision -- estimated at less than one book of any kind between 50 pupils --
constitutes an emergency requiring immediate attention. A detailed agreed
scheme for the selection, production, distribution and monitoring of this
component is presented in Annex 3-1.
3.08    Provision of textbooks.  The provision of textbooks will be phased in
with the progression of Primary One pupils in 1992, that is, books will be
provided for Primary One in year one of the project; for Primary Two in year
two; for Primary Three in year three; for Primary Four in year four; for
Primary Five in year five; and for Primary Six in year six. Each child will
be provided a book in mathematics and in one other subject, and will share a
book with another child in each of two other subjects. Teachers will be
supplied with one book each in the four subjects. These books will remain the
property of the school. Production standards have been defined which minimize
pirating and will ensure a book life of at least three years under normal
conditions. Books will be replaced in the fourth year of book life. To
maintain quality and ensure relevance, books eligible for selection will need
to meet a minimum criterion level that will ensure they comply with the
syllabus and that the language employed, language level and presentation are
suited to the age, culture and cognitive development of the students. To
ensure satisfactory production standards an independent expert with
international expertise will assess book production quality. NPEC has
initiated textbook component "start-up' actions, including the appointment of
an evaluation panel and the formulation of textbook evaluation criteria, which
were submitted to the Association for review prior to negotiations. Grant aid
is being sought for paper, the supply of which has been problematic and which
represents about 40 percent of book cost under present conditions in Nigeria.
During negotiations, the Association was informed that Government had
requested the Tariff Review Board to reconsider the economic implications of
the current 15 percent tariff on wood-free bond paper, especially its effect



- 18 -
on publishing and printing, and its possible consequences for the provision of
textbooks urgently required to improve primary education.
3.09    Provision of library books and facilities.  As students' reading
proficiency improves they will need supplementary reading materials which will
be provided through existing libraries in local government areas (LGAs).
Several local schools will have access to the facilities on a regular basis.
LGAs will be responsible for providing the premises and the staff in return
for which they will be supplied with a set of primary level books. Library
visits will be scheduled as part of the school curriculum. Basic training of
library staff will support book provision. This is a preliminary attempt to
provide library materials and staff training. Findings from the project's
research component into the modalities of library provision will provide
suggestions on how this initial system can be expanded to reach more schools.
During negotiations, it was agreed that NPEC would encourage the LGEAs to
include library periods in school timetables within their areas of
jurisdiction.
3.10    Provision of other instructional materials.  Young children in
particular learn many concepts through their senses of sight and touch and so
visual and manipulative materials are essential to classroom learning. Most
Nigerian classrooms are entirely devoid of such aids. To alleviate the dearth
of these instructional materials, NPEC intends to provide maps, charts,
geometric aids and equipment for Primary six mathematics, and social studies.
3.11    Improving the care and use of books and supplementary materials.
Although government has made substantial efforts to develop and expand primary
education and plans to supply instructional materials, optimal utilization of
resources is not automatically guaranteed. The effective use and conservation
of the instructional materials supplied under the project will occur only when
teachers are oriented to their care and use and headmasters and inspectors
(school supervisors) exercise quality control through regular informed
supervision. Consequently, the project will provide all educational
practitioners -- teachers, headmasters and inspectors -- with a training
course, as described below (para. 3.16), intended to orient them in these
areas. The project will also facilitate supervisory visits to schools.
Furthermore, it is reported that some teachers have no access to the new
national primary education syllabus and few use record books effectively. In
an effort to remedy this all teachers will be provided with a copy of each
subject syllabus and record books, the use of which will be reviewed during
the orientation courses. To achieve a multiplier effect a group of tertiary
level master trainers will be identified and trained centrally in the use of
course modules. They, in turn, will train inspectors in the states, who will
train headmasters in locally organized courses, and classroom teachers at
district or local government centers and in schools. Eventually "in-service"
training will be incorporated into the regular primary school curriculum
(para. 3.18). To assess the effectiveness of book provision and training,
NPEC will arrange for the supply and use of books in classrooms to be
monitored regularly. Master trainers' courses will be organized at national
level and the products will be available as a resource to the states which
will each plan its own training program to be submitted before credit
effectiveness. The master trainers should be available well before this date
as the number of personnel to be trained in each state is substantial and



- 19 -
courses should begin as soon as possible after effectiveness if training is to
be completed satisfactorily during the project. Prior to credit effectiveness
NPEC will be required to submit to the Association satisfactory costed state
master plans for training that will be used to upgrade the skills of
inspectors, headteachers and classroom teachers, and to award contracts for
master trainers' courses. Initial responsibility for this training will lie
with the project but, by 1994, states should be prepared to shoulder both
financial and administrative responsibility (para. 3.22).
3.12    Distribution of books.  During negotiations the Association was
informed that textbooks would be distributed to the LGEAs and would be
packaged in such a way that headmasters could collect them. LGEAs will assume
responsibility for delivery to schools. Each LGEA will be required to submit
to SPSMBs a detailed costed distribution scheme. A condition for credit
effectiveness is that NPEC submits to the Association satisfactory plans for
book distribution by LGEAs to the schools. As schools and libraries are
supplied with books, the question of storage and security arises. At a
meeting of the NPEC and the SPSMBs in April, 1990, it was decided that the
SPSMBs should provide storage facilities in their headquarters and all LGEAs
should build stores at their offices and primary schools. Monitoring teams
will investigate these storage arrangements and will ensure that these and the
LGA library facilities are satisfactory prior to book supply. It was
anticipated that by credit effectiveness at least 60 percent of LGEA library
premises would be available; and all LGEAs and schools will have book storage
facilities by the end of 1991.
(b) Improving Curriculum Delivery
3.13    Personnel upgrading.  Most teachers and headteachers have not
received significant orientation in the new curriculum content anid materials,
continuous assessment, and record keeping. Hence there is need to undertake
extensive orientation of classroom teachers, headteacher-s, administrators and
inspectors. Furthermore, with plans for increasing decentralization, there is
need to improve the accountability of personnel at the local level so that
they become more responsible for the outcomes of their actions. The role of
the inspector requires reorientation to hat of advisor and trainer.
Headteachers need more proficient school and personnel management skills and a
better knowledge of record keeping and of professional issues. Classroom
teachers need more effective teaching, organization, management and record
keeping skills. A collaborative mutually supportive relationship between
these groups should be developed. All these skills, aimed at improving
curriculum delivery, will be included in the training program supported by the
proje-t.
3.14    Training programs.  While NPEC will have overall responsibility for
the program and the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Coun1cil
(NERDC) will prepare the materials, each state will be responsible for
training its own personnel and monitoring progress using NPEC guidelines. The
plans will be presented to NPEC for approval and funding. Certain general
principles for training and a core curriculum have been delineated (Annex 3-
2). It is anticipated that by the fourth year of project implementation, in-
service teacher upgrading costs would be incorporated in atates' recurrent
budgets (para. 3.24). In order that the program be sustainable and affordable



- 20 -
by the government, there would be several levels of trainers -- allowing for
the multiplier effect.
3.15    The content of training programs will be relevant to training needs
identified by the various agencies involved in primary education. However,
special attention will be given to: (a) core curriculum; (b) local arts and
crafts; (c) continuous assessment and remediation; (d) teaching of large
classes and mixed ability groups; and (e) teaching multi-grades in small rural
schools. The training program will be prepared in modules. By contractual
arrangements, Nigerian universities and polytechnics will develop appropriate
programs in educational administration, planning and statistics respectively,
and undertake workshops accordingly. The programs will emphasize hands-on
experience in a face to face context. Training will be provided for NPEC,
FME, SMOE, SPSMB and LGEA personnel. The training modalities will include
workshops, custom-made local courses, nine-month courses in foreign
institutions, and a combination of study tours and short-term courses.
3.16    Approximately 400,000 educational practitioners would be trained
locally under the project (Annex 3-2). The areas to be covered by teachers
(356,342) are: (a) teaching core subjects (mathematics, science, English, and
social studies); (b) local arts and crafts; (c) continuous assessment; (d)
classroom management (large classes, multi-grade and mixed-ability groups);
(e) the care of books; and (f) record keeping. Headteachers (36,000) will
follow the teachers' course, with additional training in management and
resource utilization; inspectors and visiting teachers (2,300) will follow the
same course as headteachers with further training in identifying training
needs and organizing and leading workshops.
3.17    Phasirg of training programs.  Because of the large number of topics
and grades to be covered, training for the grade levels would be undertaken on
a phased basis. In year one of the project, the training program would
concentrate on the needs of Primary One, and training for the remaining grades
would be undertaken in succeeding years. When initial courses have been
completed, the training program would be based on the weaknesses identified
among the various groups of educators. Primary school teachers who are
subject specialists would be included in the training program for the first
two years. It is anticipated that by the fourth year of the project, training
of all teachers in the care and use of textbooks and of all LGEA inspectors in
t'he use of modules will be completed.
3.18    On-the-iob training program.  During negotiations, it was agreed that
NPEC would (a) require SPSMBs and LGEAs to integrate on-the-job in-service
teacher training into the work program of primary school teachers and
supervisors and (b) prepare and furnish to the Association, prior to the date
of the Mid-term Review, plans for accomplishing such integration.
3.19    A measure of self-evaluation has been built into the training
program. In addition, to determine the impact of the program, evaluation
procedures and mechanisms would address the following:
(a) teacher effectiveness in presenting lessons, using instructional
materials frequently and effectively, particularly materials taken
from the local environment;



- 21 -
(b) utilization of data to prepare micro plans for training;
(c) extent of collaboration among agencies in organizing aId implementing
the training programs;
(d) student achievement; and
(e) appropriateness of the placement of trained administrators.
2.  Improving Resource Allocation
3.20    The level of funding to primary education was significantly increased
with the introduction of the National Primary Education Fund (NPEF), the
effects of which are already apparent in subsectoral improvements. These
improvements need to be effectively and permanently incorporated into the
system and this can be achieved only if the level of funding is maintained for
a sufficiently long period and if measures are taken to ensure that any
improvements made under the project are self-perpetuating. Consequently, it
is important to maintain the NPEF at its anticipated level, to employ cost
sharing and to make permanent budgetary provision for non-salaried items.
3.21    Ensure the share of the federation account budgeted for NPEF is
maintained at a satisfactory level.   The NPEF allocates 52 percent of staff
salaries while the educationally disadvantaged states receive funds for
infrastructural rehabilitation and extension through the Interim Development
Fund. At both state and local levels, resources are freed for use to improve
the subsector by providing classroom supplies and expanding and rehabilitating
infrastructure. As it is essential for these activities to continue over a
substantial time period the NPEF should be guaranteed for at least ten years.
During negotiations, discussions were held on the need to sustain government
contributions to the fund at 65 percent of staff salaries during the life of
the project with quarterly allocations being made to the NPEF. The eventual
objective is to shift responsibility for funding primary education away from
the federal level to the states and local government authorities. The
specifics of implementing this objective will be worked out by NPEC. During
negotiations the Association was informed that provision had been made for the
NPEF to continue to receive allocations from federal, state and LGA levels,
and that the LGA cont-ibution had already been substantially increased.
3.22    Introduce community participation.   Since federal, state and local
government levels each contribute to the v'PEF, the new system is based upon
cost sharing and community participation. The project will reinforce this by
ensuring that managerial and financial responsibility for instructional
materials, training and maintenance is gradually devolved to SPSMBs and LGEAs
and, eventually, onto communities and parents. Similarly, responsibility for
other inputs into primary education -- textbooks, training, classroom supplies
and infrastructural maintenance -- will be shared. While the project will
initially provide the financial resources for training, it is anticipated that
states will fund their own candidates by the fourth year of the project (para.
3.11). The LGEAs will be required to provide routine instructional materials
and to renovate infrastructure. Although Nigerian policy is to provide free
education at primary level, the availability of resources to provide free
books presents a problem. An alternative route is for pupils to purchase



- 22 -
books on the open market. However, in the interests of equity and universal
coverage the Nigerian governmert has decided to provide books in all schools
and to rent them out to pupils at a modest book rental in order that the
supply can be sustained. The planned level of textbook supply, at which two
pupils have to share one book in some subjects, allows for parent purchase
where this is a tradition.
3.23    In the interest of self-sustainability a Revolving Fund for Textbook
Renewal (RFTR) will be established and maintained in an account in a
commercial or merchant bank. Into this fund will be deposited a contribution
equal in value to the grant-aided paper and contributions from parents for
their children's use of textbooks. It is estimated that over a three-year
period 67 percent of the cost of all books supplied will be recovered. To
facilitate acceptance of the concept of book rental the scheme would start
with a parental contribution of N6 in 1992. Annex 3-1 presents textbook costs
and indicates how these will be reduced under the project. It also presents
calculations on the level of book rental and estimates of RFTR revenues and
expenditures under specified assumptions. These data indicate that book
supply could be sustained after project completion and that the key principle
of recovering a substantial proportion of the amortized cost of books provided
by government is thus maintained. Should the cost of books or inflation
change significantly the principle would be reviewed with the annual
evaluation reports. The RFTR is expected to finance about 25 percent of the
local costs of textbook and all distribution costs during the project, and
thereafter 100 percent of total costs of textbooks, library books and
distribution. Parents will be responsible for the cost of replacing lost or
damaged books. The mobilization of the DECs and VECs in 1990 would assist in
the collection of parental contributions as they could act as monitors,
checking to see if procedures were followed. During negotiations plans for
the RFTR and for ensuring that parents would be responsible for replacing lost
and damaged books were discussed. It was agreed that NPEC will establish, not
later than December 31, 1991, an RFTR account in a commercial or merchant
bank.
3.24    Resources for non-salaried items.  To ensure that funds are available
for non-salaried recurrent items on a long-term basis, provision should be
made to ensure that states and LGAs include these items in their budgets. It
was anticipated that by mid-term of the project, states and LGAs would
establish in their budgets separate lines for training, maintenance and
instructional materials. During negotiations, it was agreed that NPEC would
require SPSMBs and LGEAs to prepare annual action plans on the basis of
school-based budgeting. These plans would include annual income and
expenditure projections, presenting estimated expenditures not only on
salaries and allowances for teaching and non-teaching staff but also on
classroom and furniture renovation, new classroom construction, provision of
instructional materials, administrative expenses and miscellaneous
expenditures.
3. Increasing Enrollments
3.25    Decreases in absolute primary school enrollments and declining
completion rates (para. 2.14 to 2.16) have a variety of causes, among which is
dwindling public confidence in the value of education generally and in the



- 23 -
quality of services provided in the primary subsector specifically. There is
growing evidence to suggest that enrollments increase and progression rates
rise when curriculum delivery is improved and a media campaign informs parents
and the general public of developments in primary education whilst involving
them in primary education initiatives. Estimates of current trends in
enrollment and progression (Annex 3-1, Attachment 1, Page 2) assume a fixed 6
percent increase in Class One enrollments from 1990 to 2001 and an initial 12
percent drop-out rate between classes as has been the case in the past. As
the impact of the primary education improvement scheme is felt and the quality
of schooling improves the between-class drop-out rate is estimated to decline
by one percent annually until the year 2000 where it remains stationary at 4
percent. Under these assumptions, the enrollment ratio should increase from
62.3 percent to 94.7 percent from 1989 to 2001.
3.26    Intensify the NPEC's media campaign.  NPEC has, since its inception,
engaged in an enlightenment campaign aimed at gaining support from state and
local governments for the primary education program and informing the nation
of developments in the subsector. This has included visits to states and
LGAs, the production and distribution of an NPEC diary, the maiden issue of
Primary Education News, and an NPEC wall calendar, all of which inform the
general public of government policy on primary education and report on the
progress of implementation of this policy in the state and local governments.
To give the commission visibility, its meetings are rotated among states. In
addition negotiations are underway with a Nigerian musician to use radio songs
to encourage school attendance. The FME has used posters, a two-part
television documentary and the press to publicize some issues in primary
education and the need to educate children. However, in the interest of
higher school enrollments and to redress the existing gender imbalances in
school attendance, the NPEC and PEU, in collaboration with all existing media
services, will intensify the publicity campaign on primary education. This
will be done through the continued production of NPEC publications (diary,
news magazine, posters, calendars), the creation and presentation of
documentary radio and television programs, visits throughout Nigeria by NPEC
and PEU personnel, and the presentation of information on primary education by
the LGEAs, DECs and VECs. The project will support this campaign by providing
cameras, VCRs, projectors and vehicles. During negotiations, the Association
was informed that satisfactory progress had been made in the media campaign
and was assured that regular media coverage of primary education would
continue.
4. StrengtheninR Institutions
3.27    Each of the federal institutions to be strengthened is in existence,
has been functioning adequately, and has recently been strengthened by the
provision of new staff to implement the primary education program. These
institutions are NPEC, PIU, PEU, SPSMBs and LGEAs. In the interest of
increased efficiency in the execution of the primary education program and
project there is need to provide training for administrative, finance and
planning staff, to supply equipment and vehicles and to strengthen procurement
capacity.
3.28    Train administrative, finance and planning personnel.  To strengthen
administration at LGEA level the project would provide 211 staff-months of



- 24 -
custom-made local courses for LGEA educational administrators (453) at local
institutions. In view of the cost sharing element in the primary education
project and of the added financial responsibility at state and local levels,
SPSMB accounting staff (44) will receive 44 staff-months of local training and
will pass these skills to LGEA accountants in courses at state level. To
enhance the capacity of federal institutions involved in primary education
improvement 24 staff-months of short-term fellowships outside Nigeria would be
provided for NPEC staff in educational planning (2), educational research (2)
and project management and 18 staff-months of fellowships in data management
(2). Staff of the FME (PIU and PEU) would receive 24 staff-months of short-
term fellowships in primary school administration (2), project management (2),
project accounting (1) and project procurement (1). Priority would be given
for staff to be trained in appropriate universities in the region. NPEC had
submitted a plan, which was discussed and agreed upon during negotiations, for
training administrative, financial, statistics and planning staff, and for
strengthening the capacity of higher educational institutions in Nigeria to
provide such training.
3.29    Supply equipment and vehicles.  To enable implementing institutions
execute their functions more effectively the project will provide equipment
and vehicles as detailed in Annex 3-5. For all institutions the office
equipment will facilitate administration; communication; data storage,
analysis and retrieval; and report writing. It will also be used to equip
documentation centers in NPEC and PIU to provide a broad, easily accessible
information source of existing data, of new information and documentation
generated and to provide a repository for progress reports, plans and
projects. The vehicles will be used by the institutions in execution of their
review, monitoring, research, and information dissemination functions.
3.30    Strengthen procurement capacity.  The existing Technical Education
Project is strengthening the implementation capdbility of the PIU by providing
initial operating costs, short-term consultancies and fellowships in
procurement, accountancy, project evaluation and related fields.  The proposed
project will further strengthen the PIU's procurement capacity by providing 60
staff-months of technical assistance for a procurement specialist who will be
responbible for procurement under the project, training two counterpart
procurement officers appointed to the PIU, and organizing procurement training
seminars for local personnel. The procurement specialist will be attached to
the PIU and work closely with the NPEC. The terms of reference for the
specialist (Annex 3-8) were discussed and agreed with the government, which
has begun the process of advertising for the two locally hired counterpart
procurement officers.
5. Facilitating Future Planning
3.31    Install management information systems.  An efficient management
information system is required to provide a valid and reliable data base
allowing for more informed decisions to be taken by educational planners and
policymakers. A reliable data base for policy decisions is lacking.
Educational data have been collected as needed and there has been minimal on-
going data collection and analysis procedures. In face of government's
renewed emphasis on upgrading and expanding primary education, it is essential
that a management information system be established to provide timely and



- 25 -
reliable data. This is described in Annex 3-3. Of the two main phases, data
collection and data analysis, the collection would be at school level by
teachers and headteachers, while compilation and analysis would be effected at
various administrative levels -- district, local government, state (SPSMBs)
and national (NPEC) levels. However, data would be computerized and analyzed
in detail in the SPSMBs and the NPEC. Agreement will be reached with NPEC and
the SMOEs on the type of data to be collected and the frequency of data
collection. A mechanism for collecting and verifying data will be
established. A systems analyst will help NPEC in determining the most
appropriate system for data management. Equipment, materials and vehicles as
described in Annex 3-3 will be supplied to the NPEC and the SPSMBs. The new
computers will be compatible with those already in the system and arrangements
would be made for security, servicing, maintenance, and back-up services.
3.32    Train statistics and planning staff.  Because of the shortage of
adequately qualified staff, training will be given in computer operations,
statistics and data management (See Annex 3-2 on training). The project would
provide 74 staff-months of custom-made courses for educational planners (46)
and statisticians (46).  The educational planners would undertake a four-week
training course comprising two weeks of educational planning and two weeks of
school mapping. Six consultants (four local and two foreign) would be
recruited to assist with the educational planning (including school mapping)
courses. Senior statisticians (23) would be given 207 staff-months of long
term fellowships to local universities. Computer operators (49) would receive
294 staff-months of short-term fellowships to attend appropriate training
programs offered in local institutions. Twenty-four staff-months of short-
term fellowships outside Nigeria would be provided for NPEC staff (para.
3.28). Priority would be given for staff to be trained in appropriate
universities in the region.
3.33    Support phased action-type research.  To reinforce the statistical
data base the project will support research into pressing subsectoral issues.
The need for coordinated action-oriented research was identified during
subsector analysis and project identification. Examples of research topics
are: (a) standardization of infrastructure; (b) the use of local
environmental resources in education; (c) teaching in the mother tongue; (d)
the effect of demography on class management -- large-group, small-group and
multi-grade teaching; (e) alternative models for community libraries; (f)
academic achievement of primary school pupils; and (g) school mapping. These
research studies will yield a number of important results, among which are:
(a) action-oriented intervention programs; (b) national norms and standards
for primary education; and (c) basic data for educational planning. By
supporting the research component, the project will ensure that national
primary education norms and standards are developed for student achievement,
staffing qualifications, initial &nd in-service teacher training, school
staffing levels, instructional material provision, sectoral expansion, and
infrastructure. These, together with the more reliable statistical data
available following the installation and use of the MIS system and staff
training, will result in better planning.  During negotiations, it was noted
that building specifications had been determined and circulated to all SPSMBs.
It was also agreed that NPEC will prepare and furnish to the Association (a)
by January 1, 1994, norms, standards and specifications to be used in the
selection of primary school equipment and facilities; (b) by January 1, 1994,



- 26 -
a set of enrollment projections for the period ending on December 31, 2000, to
serve as a basis for educational planning by NPEC; and (c) by project
completion, the norms and standards to be applied in assessing pupil
achievement in grades three and five of primary schools.
3.34    The Research Unit of NPEC will be responsible for coordinating the
investigations. The project will fund a research program as described in
Annex 3-4. A professional committee for research has been established and a
line included in NPEC's recurrent budget. Investigations may be performed by
NPEC alone, NPEC in collaboration with others, or by outright contract
researchers. Three separate subcommittees of the Research, Development and
Training Committee will be responsible for (a) research and development
applications; (b) workshops; and (c) publications, respectively. The project
will enable ongoing interaction between the committee and local and
international researchers by supporting local and foreign research consultants
and including international experts in relevant specialized fields on
supervision missions and arranging for them to attend research report
seminars. Progress made in this component will be reported in the semi-annual
project reports, and more detailed interim research reports will be required
for the mid-term review.
3.35    It is anticipated that the following outputs will emerge under this
component:
(a) physical standards for provision of primary education (building
design and furniture);
(b) a report identifying resources of various villages and towns,
particularly with respect to local arts, crafts and sites;
(c) an analytic report on use of Nigerian languages in primary school
teaching;
(d) reports on innovations in classroom management;
(e) a feasibility study for the establishment of community libraries;
(f) test batteries and manuals for determining the academic achievement
of primary school children; and
(g) a teacher training course for multi-grade teaching.
3.36    The research findings would:
(a) form the basis for development plans and policy in the primary
education subsector;
(b) inform preparation of rolling plans for program implementation;
(c) influence discussions in meetings and conferences, and the content of
training programs; and
(d) contribute to academic publications.



- 27 -
3.37    Apply a scheme to monitor and evaluate progress.  Any program seeking
to improve resource allocation and upgrade quality must include an effective
monitoring and evaluation function in order to measure success and provide
information for modifications to the system in the interests of increased
efficiency and effectiveness. Recognizing this, NPEC has developed
instruments to assess the impact of additional funding to the sector and to
inform on future provision. These are used to monitor the level and use of
funds on a quarterly basis. Content covers teachers' salaries, in-service
training, instructicnal materials, enrollment changes, and infrastructural
maintenance and development. In addition NPEC is producing a plan to monitor
and evaluate other program components. The project will support
implementation of this plan by strengthening the NPEC's Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit and the four zonal off4ces so that they can oversee both the
primary education program and the proposed project. They will monitor the
effectiveness of project intervention in improving various aspects of primary
education by collecting and analyzing data at intervals during project
implementation. Specifically, the monitoring and evaluation exercise will:
(a) identify the extent to which each objective has been achieved; (b)
determine and analyze factors hindering the attainment of project targets; (c)
prepare alternative methods for resolving the problems identified; and (d)
make available periodic reports to the project manager on the overall progress
of implementation. A condition of credit effectiveness will be the
submission, by NPEC to the Association, of details of the means to be used to
monitor and evaluate progress of the project. It is anticipated that all
management information systems (MIS) will be installed and used in the first
two years of the project, and that the first data batch produced by the new
MIS will be available prior to the mid-term review.
3.38    Project implementation will involve schools, LGEAs, SPSMBs, SMOEs,
NPEC and FME. Although each organization has defined responsibilities,
successful performance of its functions would depend on the extent to which it
collaborates with other bodies participating in the project. The proposed
project was part of a global program by the FME to upgrade the quality of
education in the subsector. The program involves improvements in
infrastructure, curriculum delivery, institutional strengthening, textbook
availability, financial provision, MIS and educational planning and the use
and maintenance of vehicles and equipment. Because of the many organizations
involved and the large geographical area to be covered, a carefully structured
evaluation mechanism is needed to ensure that resources are efficiently
utilized towards achieving the objectives of the project. This is outlined in
Annex 3-4 where modalities for monitoring each program and project component
are described. Semi-annual reports will be prepared on the progress of
project implementation and submitted to FME for transmission to the
Association. A mid-term project review will also be conducted jointly by FME,
NPEC and the Association (para. 3.45).
3.39    Incentives.  In order to encourage good performance in the various
areas of the project and at different administrative levels, incentives would
be provided by FME. This plan will include the following:
(a) FME would continue to assist the states by making contributions
equivalent te 52 percent of teachers' salaries to them if they
fulfilled their financial obligations to the education budget;



- 28 -
(b) library books would be provided to those states which established
community libraries;
(c) personnel training would be provided free to states for the first
three years of the project;
(d) subsequent to the training of inspectors/advisors in each state, a
vehicle would be provided for assisting school visits; and
(e) 'prizes' would be offered to LGEAs for making the most progress in
effecting improvements; among criteria to be used will be progress
made in redressing gender imbalances in enrollment.
NPEC has developed a plan providing for appropriate incentives to encourage
good performance in key areas of project implementation and will further
develop more specific criteria upon which the incentives would be based.
C. Proiect Costs and Financing
3.40    The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
and duties and taxes, is estimated at US$158.4 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of US$101.1 million (63.9 percent). Of the local
cost component, about 30 percent is estimated to be indirect foreign costs.
The cost estimates are based on July 1990 prices. Physical contingencies are
estimated at 5 percent for both local and foreign goods and services. Price
contingencies are based on local inflation rates estimated at 8 percent from
July to December, 1990 and 10 percent per annum thereafter, and international
inflation rates at 4.9 percent in 1990-95 and 3.7 percent thereafter.
Variable exchange rates are used to allot' for sufficient devaluation of the
Naira over the six-year period. A 12-month lag is assumed between appraisal
and project effectiveness.   Detailed project costs by component and cost
category are shown in Annex 3-6. A summary is given on the next page.
3.41    Financing Plan.  Details of the financing plan are provided in Annex
3-6. A summary is shown on the next page. An IDA credit of SDR 90.6 million
(US$120.0 million equivalent) would finance about 78.1 percent of the total
project cost net of duties and taxes. The credit would cover 96.1 percent of
foreign exchange costs and 43.5 percent of local costs. Parallel financing of
US$4.0 million from Japan, in the form of grant aid for paper, is expected to
cover the remaining 4.0 percent of foreign exchange costs. Government
contribution would amount to US$34.4 million equivalent, including duties and
taxes estimated at about US$4.7 million equivalent.
3.42    The government's contribution will cover the bulk (56.5 percent) of
local costs (excluding duties and taxes). This contribution will be phased
over a six-year implementation period so that government assumes increasing
responsibility. Counterpart funds will support the full cost of local
training and research from the fourth project year.



- 29 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES /a
(US$ million)
Project Component                                Local  Forelgn   Total
1. Textbooks                                         15.3      58.1     68.4
2. Library books                                      1.5       8.4      9.9
a. Distribution costs                                 7.8       0.0      7.8
4. Vehicles and equipment                             1.9      17.2     19.1
S. Consultancy services and tech, assist.             0.2       1.8      1.5
6. Training                                          11.2       0.9     12.1
7  Research and development                           2.9       0.0      2.9
8  Monitoring and evaluation                          1.1       0.0      1.1
Total base costs /k                          41.9      80.9    122.8
Physical contingencies                        2.1       4.0      8.1
Price contingencies                           8.8      18.2     24.8
Duties and taxes                              4.7       0.0      4.7
Total project eosta /c                  57.2    101.1    168 4
Sources:  Summary cost tables In Annex 8-6 and dotalled cost tables in
Annexes 3-1, 3-2, 8-4, 3-5 and 3-8.
/a   Totals may not add due to rounding.
ib   Excluding duties and taxes.
/c   Including duties and taxes.
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN /a
(USS million)
Source                         Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                                22.8       97.2      120.0
Government                         84.4         0.0      34.4
Japan                               0.0         4.0       4.0
Total /b                        57.2       101.1     168.4
Sources: Summary cost tables In Annex 3-8.
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.
/b Including duties and taxes.



- 30 -
D. Proiect Implementation
1. Proiect Preparation and Execution
3.43    Project preparation.  Project preparation is based upon sector work
executed by international and local consultants. The NPEC, PEU and PIU staff
with local consultants drafted the project document at a project preparation
workshop facilitated by the Bank in May 1989. Government formally presented
the project document to the Bank at the end of January 1990 and invited
appraisal. The appraisal mission in April 1990 found that, in preparation for
the project: (i) NPEC had requested SPSMBs and LGEAs to provide storage
facilities and security for instructional materials and budgetary provision
had been made for this; (ii) modules on four major curriculum areas had been
devised and were being discussed at twc national workshops; (iii) courses on
record keeping were being held on a regional basis; (iv) NPEC had established
four zonal monitoring and evaluation units and the first monitoring exercise
using locally-developed instruments had been executed in late 1989; (v) the
media campaign had begun through the publication of an NPEC diary and
periodical; (vi) progress had been made in further delineating project
component content, listing materials and equipment, devising time schedules
and costing the implementation. Negotiations on the project were held in
Washington from July 30 to August 3, 1990. The Government was represented by
officials from NPEC and FME as well as the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development.
3.44    Project management.  FME would be the executing agency for the
project. NPEC would be the implementing agency and would carry out its
functions in collaboration with state ministries and parastatals under FME.
Its main responsibilities would include:
(a) coordinating the implementation of project components according to
the implementation schedule at Annex 3-7;
(b) managing the Special Account and Project Account (para. 3.49), direct
payments on contracts within specified limits, and submitting
accounting details to the PIU in the FME;
(c) monitoring and evaluation; and
(d) preparing and submitting reports to FME and the Association.
2.  Monitoring and Evaluation
3.45    Project monitoring and evaluation has been included as an integral
part of the proiect. Reports would be produced semi-annually and presented to
the Association so that progress can be monitored regularly. It is expected
,hat these reports will be used to effect improvements in implementation and
to inform future subsectoral planning. During negotiations, it was agreed
that FME and NPEC will (a) not later than three years after the effectiveness
date of the project, carry out jointly with the Association a mid-term review;
and (b) to that end, prepare and furnish to the Association three months prior
to the review all relevant documents showing progress attained in carrying out



- 31 -
the objectives of the project. Mid-term project targets were discussed and
agreed upon (Appendix 1).
3. Procurement
3.46    Credit proceeds will be uised for the procurement of goods and
services as shown below:
AMOUNTS AND METHODS OF PROCUREMENT /a
(US$ millon)
Category                     ICe    LC3    Other    N/A       Total
(1) Textbooks                       84.2    11.3      6.8     7.8    89.0
(84.2)   (11.8)   (1.6)           (77.4)
(2) Library books                   10.9      1.4      -       -      12.3
(10.9)   (1.4)                    (12.3)
(3) Distribution costs                -       -        -      9.9      9.9
(4) Vehicles and equipment          24.8     1.0       -       -      26.8
(22.2)   (1.0)                    (23.2)
(6) Consultancy services              -       -       1.8      -       1.8
(1.8)            (1.8)
(8) Training                          -       -      14.7      -      14.7
(4.4)            (4.4)
(7) Research and development          -       -       3.6      -       3.6
(1. 1)           (1. 1)
(8) Monitoring/evaluation oper. cost  -       -        -      1.4      1.4
Total                       99.9    13.7    26.8    19.0   168.4
(197.)   (13.7)   (9.0)    -     (120.0)
Sources: Sumoary cost tables in Annex 3-6 and detailed cost tables in Annexes 3-1,
3-2, 3-4, 3-6 and 3-S.
Note-   Figures In parentheses indicate respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
/I Totals may not add due to rounding.
Procurement details for each component are as follows:
(a) Textbooks (US$77.4 million). A central evaluation panel, convened by
NPEC, will select textbook series from titles M currently in use in
Nigerian primary schools using a technical evaluation criteria agreed
M' In this context, "title' is used to refer to a book in a specified subject
used in a single primary grade. A series may consist of six titles
(grades 1 through 6) or three titles (grades 1 through 3 or grades 4
through 6).



- 32 -
with IDA. Books meeting a minimum criterion level will be
prequalified and this process will be updated on an annual basis.
Publishers will be invited annually to bid for specified print-runs
of prequalified books and a final selection will be based on a
combinati,n of technical merits (20 percent) and price (80 percent)
resulting in a 'lowest evaluated list of titles". Local publishers
will be granted a 15 percent margin of preference. -' States and
Local Governments will be requested to choose titles from the lowest
evaluated list. Bid packages for books in the English language
estimated to cost over US$500,000 each will be procured in accordance
with ICB procedures acceptable to IDA. Packages estimated at or
below US$500,000 but over US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate of
US$11.3 million equivalent, comprised of books in local languages,
will be procured in accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
Bids from overseas publishers will not be precluded. Packages
estimated at or below US$100,000, up to an aggregate of US$1.8
million equivalent, will be procured on the basis of a minimum of
three quotations in accordance with local procedures acceptable to
IDA. All contracts in excess of US$500,000 will be subject to prior
IDA review. Goods and services financed by government, estimated at
US$7.6 million equivalent, will be procured in accordance with local
procedures. Paper financed by grant-aid from Japan will be procured
according to procedures of the financier.
(b)  Library books (US$12.3 million) will be grouped into bid packages
that would encourage competition and facilitate bulk purchase. It is
expected that most packages would exceed US$500,000 and would be
procured through ICB; packages at or below US$500,000, up to an
aggregate of US$1.4 million equivalent, would be procured in
accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
(c) Distribution contracts, estimated at US$9.9 million to be financed by
the government, will be procured according to local procedures.
(d) Vehicles and equipment (US$23.2 million) will be grouped into bid
packages that would encourage competition and facilitate bulk
purchase. It is estimated that most contracts would exceed
US$500,000 each and would be awarded through ICB; contracts at or
less than US$500,000, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million, would be
procured in accordance with LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
(e) Consultancy services and technical assistance (US$1.6 million) would
be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of
consultants (August 1981). Government will finance local subsistence
costs to a maximum of US$0.2 million.
i During negotiations, it was agreed that bid documents for ICB will specify
that bidders eligible for the 15 percent margin of preference will have
the obligation to adhere to the minimum domestic value added of 20
percent, and that procurement procedures will include a provision for
issuing performance bonds to guarantee strict compliance with this
obligation.



- 33 -
(f) Training, fellowships, and study tours (US$4.4 million) will be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of
consultants. Components funded by government, estimated at US$10.3
million, will be procured in accordance with local procedures.
(g) Research and development. All contracts are expected to be small and
unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Sufficient research capacity
exists in Nigeria. Contracts financed by IDA (US$1.1 million) will
be awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of
consultants. Local procedures will be used for the remaining US$2.4
million.
(h) Operating costs of monitoring and evaluation, estimated at US$1.4
million to be financed by government, will be procured according to
local procedures.
3.47    Contracts in excess of US$500,000 would be awarded through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and would be procured in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit="
(May 1985). For all ICB a margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the
c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is the less, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers.
Packages estimated at or less than US$500,000 but more than US$100,000 and
aggregating to no more than US$13.7 million equivalent will be subject to
local competitive bidding. Sundry items not exceeding US$100,000 in each
contract and aggregating to a maximum of US$9.0 million equivalent could be
purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in accordance with
local procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. LCB procedures used under the
current Technical Education Project (Loan 2926-UNI) have recently been
reviewed by IDA and deemed acceptable. Bidding packages, invitations to bid
and the proposed award of contracts for goods and services valued at more than
US$500,000 equivalent would be reviewed by IDA. It is estimated that this
review would cover about 80 percent of the value of all contracts. The PIU
will be responsible for procurement. Under the institutior. strengthening
component of the project, procurement technical assistance and two local
Counterpart Procurement Officers would be provided and attached to the PIU
(para. 3.30).
4.   Disbursements
3.48    Disbursement categories and procedures.  The allocation of credit
amounts and the disbursement percentages are summarized on the following page.
An estimated quarterly disbursement profile is given in Annex 3-10. The
regional sector profile is eight years. However, it is estimated that the
entire loan could be disbursed in six years based on the following
considerations: the project is to provide a limited range of goods (albeit
distributed widely), the implementing agencies have proven capacity and are
limited in number, there is strong government commitment to the program from
the President down, training and other components are simple to implement, and
there are no civil works components. All withdrawal applications would be
accompanied by full documentation. Documentation for contracts valued at less
than US$50,000, for which disbursements would be made against certified
statements of expenses (SOEs), would be retained at the NPEC for review by



- 34 -
Bank supervision missions and project auditors. Whenever possible, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$50,000 or more for
submission to the Bank.
ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES FOR IDA CREDIT
(US$ millon)
Amount Allocated /a      Percentage of Expenditure to be
Category                     (US8 m)   (SDR m)             financed by IDA Credit
1.   Instructional materials         86.2       S6.1        100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ox-factory costs);
and 86% of local expenditures for other
7tems procurGd locally
2.   Vehicles and equipment          22.2       18.8       10M  of foreign expenditures; 100X of
local expenditures (ox-factory costs);
and 8SX of local expenditures for other
Items procured locally
-.   Consultancy services and TA    1.6          1.2        10% of foreign expenditures
4.   Training                         4.2        8.2        100% of foreign expenditures and 40X of
local expenditures
5.   Research and development         1.1        0.8        S0X of local expenditures
6.   Unallocated                      4.7        8.5
Total IDA amount          120.0      90.6
Sources:   Summary Cost Tables In Annex 8-8 and detailed cost tables In Annexes 3-1, 3-2, 3-4,
8-5 and 3-8.
ja  Totals may not add due to rounding.
ANNUAL DISBURSEMENT PERCENTAGES AND AMOUNTS
IDA Fiscal Year
1991    1992    1998    1994    1995        1996   1997
Amount (USS million) /a
Annual                    2.0    19.7    21.4    23.6        23.9    20.0      9.4
Cumulative                2.0    21.7    43.1    88.7        90.6   110.6   120.0
Percentage
Annual                    1.7%   16.5%   17.8%   19.7%    19.9%   16.7X    7.9%
Cumulative                1.7X   18.1%   36.9%   55.6%    7S.5%   92.1%  100.0%
Source: Annex 3-10.
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 35 -
3.49    Accounts.  To expedite project implementation, two accounts would be
established in a commercial bank to be identified by the government. The
first is a "Special Account" to disburse the Association's share of eligible
expenditures. On request from the government, the Association would pay into
the Special account an initial deposit from the credit of US$6.0 million
equivalent, denominated in dollars, representing about four months'
requirements. The Special account would be replenished by the Association to
maintain its original level of US$6.0 million equivalent on receipt of
properly documented withdrawal applications from NPEC at least monthly. NPEC,
as implementing agency, would be responsible for managing the Special Account.
A second account to be known as the 'Project Account' would be established by
NPEC in a commercial bank of its choice to pay the government's share of
eligible project expenditures.
3.50    During negotiations, the government and the Association discussed the
details for the establishment, operation and accounting requirements for the
SOEs, special and project accounts, in conformity with Bank guidelines. It
was agreed that prior to credit effectiveness, NPEC would establish the
Project Account with an initial deposit of N2 million.  The government also
agreed to provide in its budgets amounts sufficient to cover its counterpart
contributions to the costs of the project, and accordingly replenish the
project account each quarter. For purposes of estimating counterpart
contributions, it was agreed that by September 30 of each year NPEC would
prepare, for review by the Association, a detailed statement of the
expenditures proposed under the project for the following year.
3.51    Recurrent costs.  It is envisaged that the long-term impact of the
proposed project on the recurrent budget will be comparatively small as the
project is not capital-intensive and will generate few maintenance costs other
than those incurred by vehicles and equipment. The effect of the project on
incremental recurrent expenditure is illustrated in Annex 3-9. To help
sustain the provision of textbooks and supplementary materials, a Revolving
Fund for Textbook Renewal (RFTR) will be established to finance the provision
of instructional materials after the project (para. 3.23). Furthermore, it is
anticipated that there will be a redistribution of recurrent expenditures in
two respects. First, a greater share of recurrent funds will be allocated to
non-salaried expenditures. Secondly, increasing responsibility for recurrent
expenditure will be decentralized -- to local governments, communities and
parents. To effect this it was agreed during negotiations that SPSMBs and
LGEAs will be required to prepare annual action plans on the basis of school-
based budgeting (para. 3.24).
5.   Auditing and Reporting
3.52    The NPEC would establish and maintain separate financial records for
all accounts, including S0Es, and the Special and Project accounts. The
financial records should conform to internationally accepted accounting
procedures. The government would be expected to (a) appoint an independent
auditor, with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association, to
annually audit all project accounts, including SOEs; and (b) submit audit
reports of reasonable scope and detail to the Association, to include a
separate opinion on SOEs, within six months of the close of the government's
fiscal year.



- 36 -
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Expected Benefits
4.01    Qualitative improvement outcomes.  It is anticipated that the project
will result in the improvement of educational quality evidenced by a high
level of book provision in the core curriculum subjects -- mathematics,
English, science, social studies and local languages; an increase in other
instructional aids; significant improvement in teacher effectiveness and
administrative and professional accountability; an increase in student
performance; and improvements in the administrative and professional
supervisory functions of inspectors and headmasters. Furthermore, it is
expected that, with the improved book supply, children will develop a desire
to read widely, and consequently the provision of, at this stage, a modest
number of libraries will help to satisfy and fortify this desire.
4.02    Financial outcomes.  The financial measures introduced will safeguard
and increase financing to the subsector. Cost sharing in improving the
quality of the system will give responsibility to many administrative levels
and increase commitment to primary schooling. Financial management will be
strengthened through NPEC's control. The financing arrangements will
substantially contribute to the sustainability of qualitative inputs and of
improvements.
4.03    Information outcomes.  A more valid and reliable information base
will result from the upgrading of the personnel and resources in statistics
and planning units and the introduction of a standardized management
information system (MIS). Action-oriented research will lead to future
interventions for the improvement of the subsector. Qualitative and
quantitative standards for primary education provision will be available to
use as planning norms and for measuring progress.
4.04    Enrollment and Progression outcomes.  The media campaign will attract
more school enrollments while progression rates will improve as parents
perceive the benefits of a higher-quality education.
4.05    Capacity-building outcomes.  The developmental work of NPEC will be
facilitated through evaluation, monitoring and research and the construction
of an ongoing data base using MIS. Similarly, the PIU will be in a stronger
position to execute projects, and the PEU to develop primary education policy.
B. Project Risks and Actions to Minimize Them
4.06    Previous experience in Nigerian projects and as reported in ARIS
suggests that there are a variety of risks:
(a) low commitment which may be due to lack of incentives and may affect
timely project implementation;



- 37 _
(b) mismanagement due to incompetence, fraudulence and inadequate
capacity in the institutional framework;
(c) irregularities in supplies may cause time over-runs;
(d) inadequately delineated relationships between implementing bodies can
leave implementation gaps or duplication of effort;
(e) poor communications may hamper progress;
(f) cost and time over-runs may result from an unnecessarily complex
project design; and
(g)  in operations aimed at qualitative improvement there may be
insufficient evidence to measure project success.
4.07    To minimize these risks the following actions have been taken:
(a) commitment has been built up from the time the sector report was
produced through continuing dialogue between Bank staff and local
educators throughout Nigeria and qualified national staff in
strategic positions who have been involved in all steps of the
project identification, preparation and implementation process; in
addition, incentives to individuals and education authorities are
built into the project (para. 3.39);
(b) mismanagement is being minimized by actions -- some already initiated
by NPEC -- to improve accountability, competence and funding; during
implementation some institutions are being strengthened to fulfil
specific functions -- for example, the procurement capability of the
PIU is being enhanced;
(c) the supply situation, especially of textbooks, is being carefully
investigated and organized, with provision being phased over the
project period to minimize the risk of non-availability;
(d) working relationships between each educational administrative level
and between NPEC, PIU, PEU and NERDC are clear;
(e) communications between NPEC, States, LGAs and the Association are
being improved with the creation of four zonal liaison offices and by
the installation of necessary technology;
(f) project design is simple with a minimal number of components and
relatively few categories of goods and services to be procured, these
being spread systematically over a six-year period; furthermore, to
avoid implementational delays, a detailed timed "start-up" mechanism
has been devised which includes effectiveness actions and is being
monitored by the Resident Mission and the task manager; and
(g) project achievements will be assessed on a continuous basis through
in-built monitoring and evaluation allowing informed decisions to be



- 38 -
made on modifications necessary to maximize success during project
implementation.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01    During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a) NPEC will establish not later than December 31, 1991, a Revolving
Fund for Textbook Renewal (RFTR) account in a commercial or merchant
bank (para. 3.23);
(b) FME and NPEC will: (i) not later than 3 years after the date of
Credit Effectiveness, carry out jointly with the Association a mid-
term review of the project; and (ii) to that end, prepare and furnish
to the Association three months prior to the review all relevant
documents showing progress attained in carrying out the objectives of
the project (para. 3.45);
(c) NPEC will require SPSMBs and LGEAs to prepare annual action plans on
the basis of school-based budgeting, including income and expenditure
projections that include, inter alia, salaries and allowances of
teaching and non-teaching staff; classroom and furniture renovation;
expenditures for new classroom construction; provision of
instructional materials; administrative expenses; and miscellaneous
expenditures (para. 3.24);
(d)  NPEC will prepare and furnish to the Association by January 1, 1994,
the norms, standards and specifications to be used in the selection
of primary school equipment and facilities (para. 3.33);
(e) NPEC will prepare and furnish to the Association by January 1, 1994,
a set of enrollment projections to serve as a basis for educational
planning by NPEC for the period ending on December 31, 2000 (para.
3.33);
(f) NPEC will prepare and furnish to the Association by project
completion the norms and standards to be applied in assessing pupil
achievement in grades three and five of primary schools (para. 3.33);
(g) NPEC will require SPSMBs and LGEAs to integrate on-the-job in-service
teacher training into the work program of primary school teachers and
supervisors, and prepare and furnish to the Association prior to the
date of mid-term project review plans for accomplishing such
integration (para. 3.18);
(h) NPEC will encourage LGEAs to include library periods in school
timetables within their areas of jurisdiction (para. 3.09);



-39 -
(i) the Government will provide in its budgets amounts sufficient to
cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the project, and
accordingly replenish the project account each quarter (para. 3.50);
and
(j) for purposes of estimating the Borrower's counterpart contributions,
NPEC will prepare and furnish to the Association for its review, by
September 30 each year, a detailed statement of the expenditures
proposed under the project for the following year (para. 3.50).
5.02    Conditions for credit effectiveness ares
(a) NPEC has furnished to the Association details of the means to be used
to monitor and evaluate progress of the project (para. 3.37);
(b) NPEC has furnished to the Association satisfactory plans for book
distribution by LGEAs to the schools (para. 3.12);
(c) NPEC has furnished to the Association satisfactory master plans
(including cost estimates of such plans) designed for use by the
states to upgrade the skills of inspectors, headteachers and
classroom teachers (para. 3.11);
(d) NPEC has awarded contracts for master trainers' courses (para. 3.11);
and
(e)  NPEC has opened a project account with an initial deposit of K2
million (para. 3.50).
5.03    Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 90.6 million (US$120.0
million equivalent) to the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
AF4PH
November 20, 1990



- 40 -                           APPENDIX 1
MID-TEL-{ PROJECT TARGETS
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following mid-term targets:
(A) Provision of Instructional Materials
(a) provision of Mathematics and Science textbooks for every child in
Primary One to Three, and of English and Social Studies textbooks, at
the rate of one book between two children in each subject, in Primary
One to Three (para. 3.08 and Annex 3-1);
(b) provision of textbooks and teachers' guides to all primary school
teachers (para. 3.08 and Annex 3-1);
(c) provision of library books and development of lending systems in 60
percent of eligible LGEAs (para. 3.09); and
(d) formulation of plans for scheduling regular library visits/periods in
the primary school curriculum (para. 3.09).
(B) Personnel Upgrading
(a) completion of training in the care and use of textbooks for all
teachers and evidence of effective use and conservation of textbooks
by some Primary One to Three teachers and pupils (para. 3.11);
(b) production of modules and training of all LGEA inspectors in their
use (para. 3.17);
(c) production of implementation plan for integrating on-the-job teacher
training into the work program of both teachers and school
supervisors (para. 3.18); and
(d) completion of training for all PSMB and LGEA accountants and for 50
percent of administrative, statistics and planning personnel (para.
3.28).
(C) Research and Development
(a) specification of standards for primary education (para. 3.33);
(b) administration of first standardized tests to Primary Three and
availability of pilot test results for Primary Five (para. 3.33); and
(c) availability of interim research progress reports (para. 3.34).
(D) Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) installation and use of all MIS systems, and availability of the
first data batch using the new MIS (para. 3.37);
(b) establishment of separate lines for training, maintenance and
instructional materials in state and LGA budgets (para. 3.21); and
(c) evidence of regular media coverage of primary education (para. 3.26).



- 41 -                    ANNEX 1-1
Page 1 of 1
NIGECIRIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Area (thousand square km.)                                 924
GNP per capita (1988, USS)                                 290
Population (1990, millions)                                117
Population density (per square km)                         119
Population growth rate (1990-1995 projected)                 3.06X
Urban population las X of total)                            35.2X
Crude birth rat  (per 1,000)                                47
Crude death ra e (per 1,000)                                15
Life expectancy (years)                                     51
Access to safe water
Urban population                                      50Z
Rural population                                     15X
Nutrition per capita
Daily calorie intake                              2,146
Daily protein intake (grams)                          48
Infant mortality (1989, per 1,000 live births)             105
Population per physician (1989, thousands)                   7
Population per hospital bed (1989, thousands)                1
Maternal mortality (1989, per 1,000 live births)            15
Primary school enrollment (1989, millions)                  12.8
Female share of enrollment (1989)                           39?
Primary school enrollment rate (1989)                       621
Teachers in primary schools (1989, thousands)              373
Secondary school enrollment (1986, millions)                 3.9
Female share of enrollment (1986)                           26?
Secondary school enrollment rate (1986)                     29X
Teachers in secondary school (1986, thousands)             109.4
Tertiary education enrollment (1986, thousands)            246
Female share of enrollment (1986)                           13X
Adult literacy rate (1985)                                  42.8?
Source: Staff estimates.



- 42  -                                    ANNEX  2-1
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Shuctu  of Ith  Educaion oan  Traini  Syt
bJ.-                                      ucb    uc                                 GA
NC) (tee
'' m mm m     mm m  rn mm         m mm    m     mm  mmmum  mu     mm
I  <DO___><I:DCX   _G>ql13 IImD_C=C=' wO CS                                       =CImCZm
mum  mum  mm  mu mum  mm mm             mum         mm   m       mm         mm  
I1                                                           Ia
= fta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ymg~~~tkt*f
C= cmc   n1Dc   n4  oa  n U K  mc   oa  = a =m C= C_D a= _2  IG C= cm     = pCM CM Rzle _P_= 
S   a              a
bw~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~awPfcs
IGOiC CEM
El    ID IZ lE   lE                              lE            le         s[l1   laa[lE
I   wc*o
No  
KXC  kS"tm  WO**
$m a _w



-43 -                                                      ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ORGNZATIONAL STRUCTU  OF TM FEDERAL MISTRY OF EDCATION
DDIRETR-O AL|     
ntrnal         L9l           Pbi
Audit.           Unit]         Relation. 
DIRB:TOR         DIRErOR           DDlB:TOR            DIRB tOR         DIRB IOR          DIRB:OR            DIRB:TOR           DIR~TR
Personnel        Finance *         Plannina            Primary A        PoCt_             Technological       Education         Edue tional
Department       Suppl;ea          Research A          SeconSeconSecondary                A Science           Inapeetorate      Support
Depsrtscent       Stati*tics         Education         Educetion         Education                             Services
Appointents                                            Pr ePlanning  |risarv |Univeralty  |Tehnical |Primry                   | Evaluation
XPromRotion and    DiDvisionl        Division              Education                       Divtnion           Secondary      |ancrdiie|
Divisien              .
Train;ng           Ac;ut           Research £         Secondary         Teaher|          Science   |       Post               International
& Staff            Diviionr Statistics                 Education                        I Education        Sec n    Educaitin   d
Velfaro                             DviinEuainEtrlAd
Division                                                                                                                      Dvlpectorate  Division
Suplies-  Specal   |                         Sholarahip         Art and                               uidance A 
Division                  ~~~~~~Educat-ion                   Cul tral                             Counsel Ii no
Education
I         *   I     .     r    I        .      I   .       .    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Door 
Educatio
[.;i;i3es  FundsrRecurrente                                                              Plan
I  l  IExpend;ture|    | Rerchl        | Stbtat;te  |         t        |progressa
oes  Paymtents|  qCapital    |        | Operations,    Internal          Computer        Plan
4jE;xppe*nd;4turel  IP;sonal *I       iset-tc  I IS ice I IMonitor;ino/I
| Reoeareh   |                      | E~~~~~~Cvalstion 
Tansport    4AccountF Revente  of | Renury  |                                                         Tnr
Ma X  ntenancel
Federal MItnistry ot Education. January 1989



- 44                                     ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 1
NIGERIA - PRIKARY EDUCATION PROJECT
NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION COMMISSION
ORGANIZATION CHART
NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION COMMISSION
A EXECUTIVE SECRETARY      A
AC T  KDr.  CSa bo
| Personal Assltsanta 
Deembei |  IR0ons
Officer
I       1     I ~~~~FINANCE                 MONITR                            |  PLANNDZ  |
ADMINISTRATION         SUPPLIES                   EVALUATIOIT                        RESEARCH A
Deputy                                                        STATISTICS
T          ~~~~Di reor                  D1irector                          Dtirector
_ f PERSOt l     ~Cl tf       TaNC          Dletr|CRIU                  PLANNIN        RSAC
Accountn1    FINNCIl                    WN 17INO        1 Astant     STATISTICS
Ace.UONSORIN                                         Director      a COMIPUTING
Assistant
_  IUNAT |                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dt roctor
ZONAL  1                   PHYSICAL| Ir 
OFFICES                     PLANNING        LRSAC
_IFIUCZIALI         r        .I ..
|ACCOUNTIN I    r       .         .aZ                . r        
'      '  1~~KADUNA I IAUCHIl1  OWERRI  I IIADANI-CURULUI               SASTSI
|(NW)1 (NE)  11 (SE)  11(S"              PANSS  
.      .  I~~AbuJa  IBlauchi I Akwn-Ibez IBendelI '
I STATES   |   Kaduna |Be8nue  | Anambra   | Kwara 
1ACCWNTS  1   Kano   118rno  1Clro aivir riltun I
1 8UDET   |   Katsina||Oongola||two       11ndo |
|      '  |~~Niger  | 1Platesu| IRIvers        Logos"
ISokoto                      l   '1y° 
Deceber 19, 1999



45 -                           ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
THE NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION FUND AND ITS ADMINISTRATION
Allocation from Federal Government, 1989
1.          Total federal allocation to the National Primary Education Fund
(NPEF) was N800 million in 1989, given in four quarterly subventions. Advice
of payment was received by NPEC at the beginning of each quarter, but check
clearing procedures took about 21 days.
2.          Of the 1800 million, N160 million (20Z) was allocated to the
Interim Development Fund (IDF) for the 12 disadvantaged states. By directive
of the Minister of Education, N50 million was allocated to a Special Fund, to
be used for nomadic education and to meet backlog payments. The balance, N590
million, was allocated to the National Fund (NF), constituting the federal
government's contribution towards payment of salaries for teaching and non-
teaching staff.
3.          The first subvention of N200 million was received by NPEC in
January 1989. Of this amount N12.5 million was allocated to the Special Fund;
"40 million to the IDF; and N147.5 million to the NF.  In the second quarter,
the Ministry deducted at source N10 million of the Special Fund, and NPEC
received only N190 million. In the third and fourth quarters, NPEC received
the full subvention.
Allocation to the States
4.          Allocations from the NF to the states were based on equality (50Z)
and population (50%). Abuja was treated as a state.
5.          Allocations from the IDF to the 12 disadvantaged states were also
based on equality (50Z) and population (50Z).
Disbursement of Funds in 1989
6.          Disbursements from the NF, IDF and Special Funds, as of November
30, 1989, are shown on page 3 of this Annex.
7.          In the first quarter, NPEC did not impose strict conditions for
the release of funds to the states, and all states received their first
subvention for the year. Starting with the second quarter, states had to meet
certain conditions before NPEC released funds. The conditions for
disbursements from the NF were, for each state: (a) the State Primary School
Management Board (SPSMB) must have been established; (b) evidence that the
state's and LGAs' contributions towards the salaries of primary school staff
have been deposited in a specially designated bank account; and (c) the
state's and LGAs' contributions towards capital expenditure on primary
education (calculated on the basis of 30X of the state's salary bill for
primary education) have been deposited in the bank. The last condition was
imposed as a means to ensure financing for the rehabilitation of
infrastructure (primary school buildings, classrooms, etc.), but was disputed



- 46 -                          ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 4
by some states on the grounds that this was outside the prescription of the
Decree and therefore not within the prerogative of NPEC to impose. But in the
end, NPEC apparently was able to argue its case and obtain the necessary
support. In 1989 some states were able to meet all the conditions promptly
(e.g., Kano), but others took more time. Kaduna state, for example, met these
conditions late and did not receive NF subventions for the second and third
quarters until early December.
8.          The conditions for disbursements from the IDF were:  (a) project
proposals have been submitted to NPEC for approval; (b) the state has met its
share towards the cost of the project; and (c) previous subventions have been
used appropriately. These conditions turned out to be harder to implement,
because in some cases the states could not begin work on the proposed projects
with the small amount of money received in the first subvention. In October,
the Commission decided to release all the subventions from the IDF, but, in
1990, monitoring and evaluation of the projects financed by the IDF will be
carried out before further subventions are Tmade.
Financial Management at NPEC
9.          In 1989 NPEC contracted a management firm to help establish the
financial system and procedures at NPEC. The management firm sent in a team
consisting of a director, a chief accountant, a funds manager and several
assistant staff. The team managed NPEC's accounts and administered the NPEF
and IDF during 1989. It developed an accounts manual with detailed accounting
procedural instructions, including those for reporting and monitoring state
accounts. The firm handed over to NPEC's permanent staff by the end of 1989.
10.         Financial management at NPEC will be under the Deputy Director of
Finance and Supply. He heads the accounting and funds management sections,
and is assisted by a chief accountant. The department is staffed by 8
accountants recruited in November 19P9.
11.         The management firm conducted in November 1989 a 3-day workshop on
accounting procedures for staff of SPSMBs (2 representative from each state).
This will be followed up by courses conducted in each state for staff in
SPSMBs and LGEAs.
12.         Three scparate accounts were kcept by NPEC over the past year:  the
NF account; the IDF account; and NPEC's operational account. As NPEC received
recurrent funds late in 1989, operations were funded by interest earned from
deposits of federal allocations in commercial banks. This is no longer
feasible as all government institutions are required to deposit their funds at
the Central Bank, which does not offer interest.
1990 Budget
13.         NPEC requested a federal allocation of V1.1 billion to the NPEF in
1990 -- equivalent to 65Z of the estimated salaries of teaching and non-
teaching staff in primazy schools, based on returns of questionnaires NPEC
sent to all primary schools in April/May 1989.



-47-                            ANNEX --4
Page i of 4
14.         In addition, MPEC has submitted budget proposals consisting of K6
million for its administrative expenses in 1990, N30 million for building its
permanent premises in Abuja (of which 115 million will be required for 1990),
and 16 million for the purchase of vehicles.
15.         Approved allocations for 1990 were 1800 million for the NPEF; N4.5
million government recurrent subvention; and N0.5 million government capital
subvention. A summary of NPEC's 1990 approved budget is shown on the
following page.
NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION COMMISSION
INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
NATIONAL FUND GRANT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER, 1989
Income                                                  N
National Fund Grant                               790,000,000
Less
Disbursement from the Fund                        699,153,001
20LA46,999
Conmmitted Disbursement Balance on National Fund
State                                             Amount (N)
Kaduna                                             5,516,576
Cross River                                        4,588,954
Borno                                              7,276,241
Imo                                                8,160,048
Katsina                                            6,553,005
Kwara                                              5,586,146
ogun                                               5,382,587
Plateau                                            5,988,114
Rivers                                             5,603,761
Benue                                              6,529,412
Sokoto                                             9,293,900
270.?8,44
Source:        Department of Finance and Supplies, National Primary
Education Commission



- 48 -                          ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 4
NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION COMMISSION
1990 APPROVED BUDGET SUMMARY
Summary of Expected Income and Proposed Expenditure
N
Total Expected Income                                   24,926,412.48
Total Proposed Expenditure                              24,308,955.00
Estimated Surplus                              fil7457.48
Summary of Expected Income
Balance B/F from 1989                                    2,039,792.48
Federal Government Recurrent Subvention                  4,500,000.00
Federal Government Capital Subvention                      466,620.00
Investment Income (Treasury Bills)                      17,920,000.00
Total
Summary of Proposed Expenditures
Personal Emoluments                                      3,823,955.00
Common Charges (Recurrent)                               7,325,000.00
Capital Purchases and Projects                          13.160.000.00
Total                                      24,3Q8.955. o
Source:     Department of Finance and Supplies, National Primary Education
Commission



- 49 -                                       ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STATISTICAL PROFILE
CURRENT NATIONAL DATA
1989 PRIMARY SCHOOL STATISTICS BY STATE /a
Number of      Total
Number of  Number of      Female      Number of  Number of  Teachers Teachers
States            Schols    Classes        Pupils        Pupils    Teachers   with NCE  with TC 1
1 Akwa-lbom          1,061      10,624      243,517       743,526      11,682        1      11,394
2 Anambra            2,096      25.279      410,671      1,003,228     30,903      935      22,323
3 Bauchi             1,427      14,399       124,981       323,594     11,357      200       3,605
4 Bcadel             1,857      21,083      552,201      1,063,432     21,137      440      14,880
5 Bemue              2,392      17,217      230,980      1,144,800     28,500     1,367      9,642
6 Borno              1,433      11,113       181,241      464,478      10,902       88       2,415
7 Cross River          623       8,382       113,251      403,703       6,564       22       6,100
8 Gongola            1,464      11,116      132,610        354,495     18,913      329       6,254
9 Imo                2,036      25,076      430,788       927,138      20,993       103     20,223
10 Kaduna             1,358      14,345      237,903       559,929      15,187    2,180       4,731
11 Kano               3,276      20,649      406,453      1,163,815     30,000      129        939
12 Katsina            1,939      18,682      210,897       775,482      10,793      132       5,958
13 Kwara              1,466      13,390      176,645       525,801      16,259     1,027      5,688
14 Lagos               894       21,654      338,086       866,128      16,623     5,174     13,247
15 Niger               614        5,417      117,691       311,426       8,172      220       6,100
16 Ogun               1,301      13,079      194,851       422,823      12,107      120       9,511
17 Ondo               1,664      18,229      215,461       524,638      15,345     3,805     10,749
18 oyo                2,599      38,686      536,209      1,083,474     32,740     1,159     26,966
19 Plateau            1,722      14,786      225,710       558,370      16,823     1,893      7,711
20 RIvers             ',112      12,168      218,226       429,954      10,694      489      10,645
21 Sokoto             2,458      18,018      227,601       723,124      25,694      552       3,120
22 FCT-Abuja           212        1,442       119,831       67,708       1,714       13         661
TOTAL         35,004     354.834     5.645.804    14.441.066    373.102    20,78    202.862
Source: Department of Planning, Research and Statistics, National Primary Education
Commission, Federal Republic of Nigeria.
/a Raw data to be verified.



- 50 -                                       ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STATISTICAL PROFILE
HISTORICAL COMPARATIVE DATA
MALE AND FEMALE ENROLLMENT RATIOS
AND FEMALE SHARE OF ENROLLMENT. BY STATE AND REGION
1975/76
180 -
170-
160-
150-
140-
130-
120-
110-
100
70- 
1   2   3   4                                                   I 8   7   a   s   10  11  12  1a  14  18  18  17  18  19
-985/86
180 -
1 80 ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     1 O I                      
130-O 1                                                           ON                 
120-                                                               l                    
110
90
1   2   3   4   8   8   7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  tS  16  17  18  19
VMa:le           l       lfemale          t5Femlel ehre
Nortiern Stbdes           Middle Stae                 Southern States
1 Dach                     6 Bas11 Anambra
2 Borne                    7 Gagola                   12  Blen
3 Kaua/atia                8 Kwua                     13 Cross PdvcrlAkwa-lboen
4 KanD                     9 Niger                    14 Iino
5Skoo                     Id Plateau                  15Lagos
16 1g88
17 Ondo
18 Oyo
19 RIveas
Sourc:  Nigteria: Primarv Education Subsector Studv   (Rtepo*t No. 7389-UNI). World Bank. June 30, 19S9.



- 51 -                                    ANNEX 2-S
Page 3 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STATISTICAL PROFILE
HISTORICAL COMPARATIVE DATA
AVERAGE CLASS SIZE BY STATE AND REGION
1982183
80 -
70
60
SO
40 
30 
20
10. Wl3L  flGIEvX0
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11  12  13  14  15  10  17  18  19
1989
80 -
60 
50-
40 
30 
20
1  2  3S 3b  4  5  6  7  S  9  1O FCT 1  12 13a 13b 14 15 16 17 18 19
Northeem States          Middle States             Southern States
I  Baud1i                  6 Bous                  11  Anambta
2  Botno                   7 Gooola                12  Bendel
3a  Kaduma                  S Kwara                13a Crs River
3b  Katina                 9 Nier                  13b Akwa-lbom
4   Kanm                   10 Plateau              14  Imao
S  Sokoto                 Fcr Ab                   15 Ligos
16  Ogm
17  Oudo
is  Oyo
19  Riven
Source:  Nigeria: Primary Education Subsector Study   (Repo  No. 7389-UNI), World Bank, Juno 30, 1989.



- 52 -                        ANNEX 2-5
Page 4 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STATISTICAL PROFIE
HISTORICAL COMPARATIVE DATA
PERCENTAGES OF TEACHERS OUALIFIED
1980/81 la   1982183 /a   1985/86 /a      1989 /b
NORTH      Bauchi                6           13           38            34
Borno              n.a.          n.a.          20            23
Kaduna               37           44          n.a.           46
Kano                  3           10           14             4
Katsina             n.a.         n.a.         n.a.           56
Sokoto                2            2            6            14
MIDDLE    Benue                n.a.         n.a.         n.a.           39
Gongola             n.a.         n.a.          37            35
Kwara                49          n.a.          46            41
Niger                 6           10           28            77
Plateau              21           17           38            57
FCT Abuja           n.a.          25           28            39
SOUTH      Akwa-Ibom           n.a.         n.a.         n.a.           98
Anambra              12           54          n.a.           75
Bendel               40           40           99            73
Cross River          37          n.a.         100            93
Imo                  68           87          100            97
Lagos                64           69           85           100
Ogun                 41           55           92            80
Ondo                 50           56           99            95
Oyo                  45           58          n.a.           86
Rivers              n.a.         n.a.          79           100
TOTAL            34           43           63            60
Sources:    /a Niaeria: Primary Education Subsector Study
(Report No. 7389-UNI), World Bank, 1989.
/b Department of Planning, Research and Statistics,
National Primary Education Commission, Federal Republic of Nigeria.



- 53-                        ANNEX 2- 6
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIA: PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
THE PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
1.          The National Primary Education Commission (NPEC) is charged with
improving primary education. To do this it is empowered to set minimum
standards of primary education; advise Federal and State Governments on all
aspects of the subsector; pay teachers' salaries; undertake capital
development; collect statistics; conduct research on primary education; reviev
curricula; compile a national teachers' register; and many other duties.
2.          Since its inception in January 1989, NPEC has allocated the
Interim Development Fund (IDF) to the disadvantaged states to build and
furnish classrooms so as to increase access. It has also disbursed money to
all states from the National Primary Education Fund (NPEF) for the improvement
of primary education in terms of purchase of structural materials, provision
of inservice training, and renovation of buildings and infrastructure. The
Commission has been able to ensure regular payment of teachers' salaries and
allowances.
3.           The current status of the system constitutes an emergency which
requires immediate attention. Consequently, the Federal Government of Nigeria
has committed itself to a primary education improvement program which will
improve the system's quality resulting in a better product, increased demand
and a more efficient system. The NPEC has estimated its revenues and outlined
the expenditures required to implement the primary education improvement
program (see attachments). In view of the resource deficit in available
funding for program implementation and acknowledging the need to prime the
program during its early stages the Federal Government of Nigeria has
requested IDA to finance certain program components which have been
synthesized into a project.



- 54 -                                ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 6
NIGERTA
PRIMARY EDUCATION IMPROVE4N
1991-2005
PHASE 1                               PHASE 2                               PHASE 3
1991-95                               1996-2000                             2001-2005
SUPPLY INSTRUCTIONAL       ,-.        SUPPLY NSTRUCTIONAL      -           SUPLY INSTRUCTIONAL
MATERIALS                                                                 MATERIALS
Books Teachers Guides
Instructional Aids                       DEVELOP SCHOOL           -         DEVELOP SCHOOL
Charts      Equipment                        LIBRARIES                          LIBRARIES
Chalk      Stationery
I  DEVELOP PRE-SCHOOL    I                  AIR PRE-SCHOOL                       AIR PRE-SCHOOL
RADIO/TV PROGRAMS                 [i RADIO/TV PRO SPROGRAMS
IMPROVE PERSONNEL                    IMPROVE PERSONNEL                  CONTINUE SCHOOL-BASED
ACCOUNTABILITY                        ACCOUNTABILITY                   INNOVATIONS INCLUDING
THROUGH SCHOOL-BASED                  RESOURCE CENTERS
Short Basic Courses for                    INNOVATIONS
Inspector"
Headnesters
Teachers                           INAUGURATE MAJOR                   CONTINUE TO INAUGURATE
on                  )         PROGRAM OF PERSONNEL                    MAJOR PROGRAM OF
Care A Use of Materials               UPGRADING AND REFORMlED             PERSONNEL UPGRADING AND
School Records                      TEACHER EDUCATION                 REFORMED TEACHER EDUCATION
TeacheEd|
_                 _ ~~~~~Currclm-|RDCa PILOT CURRICULUM
>  BEGIN CURRICUWLri REVISIONM) UATERIALS AND METHODS
ENGAGE IN APPLIED
RESEARCH ON PRIM#ARY   Speelsl  d 
EDUCATION ISSUES     _                                                               ION PROGRAM
Infrastructure
CoununityI
Involvement|
IMIPROVE DATA BASE                INCREASE, IMPROVE, REPLACE              INCREASE FACILITIES
I    FOR PLANNING   I    )     |     SCHOOL FACILITIES                     AND MAINTAIN
AS REQUIRED                       PRESENT SCHOOLS
IEquipment 
I  Troining           I,-
I  Statistics         IIONGOING IMIPROVEMIENT OF I 
I  School llaps    §      >|         DATA BASE WITH                       IMPROVE DATA WITH
Master Plans                         SCHOOL MAPPINGS                   DISTRICT MASTER PLANS
INSTITUTION BUILDING
NPEC, Primary Education                  FACILITATE NPEC,                FACILITATE IMPLEMENTATION
Unit and Project Imple-               PRIMARY EDUCATION UNIT                THROUGH NPEC, PRIMARY
mentation Unit in FMIE              AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION           EDUCATION UNIT AND PROJECT
UNIT IN FME        J              IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
.-Training    Equipment |
Source: Bank staff In consultation with FME and NPEC.



- 55 -                                          ANNEX 2-6
Page 3 of 6
NIGERIA - NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES AND SOURCES OF FINANCING
(in millions of currcnt Naira)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
ESTIMATED EXPENDITURE
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
(1)  Staff salaries (incl. pendon)      1649.2  1715.2  1783.8  1964.2  2200.4  2471.3  2782.8  3137.5  3537.6  3989.2  4498.7
(2) Proviion of Instructional materials
(a) Textbooks                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  293.9  311.2  333.6  504.6
(b) Library books                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    O.G    0.0    0.0   21.2   23.3   25.6   28.2
(c) Distnbution coats            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   31.5   33.5   35.9   53.3
(d) Other aterlab               65.1   67.1   70.1   74.2   80.0  172.7  187.0  202.7  219.8  238.3  387.7
(3)  Trainin (c-srvice)                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.0   30.2   32.7   35.5   38.5   41.7   45.2
(4)  Research and development             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.2    4.5    4.8    5.2
(5)  Mon toring/evaluation oper. cos      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.1    3.4    3.6    3.9
(6)  Maintenance of buUdinp and vehicles  0.0    0.0   11.5   12.7   13.9   15.3   16.7   26.7   32.0   34.1   34.1
(7)  Other ovcread expenses
NPEC                                11.2   12.3   13.5   14.8   16.3   18.0   19.8   21.7   23.9   26.3   28.9
PSMBs                              176.0  193.6  213.0  234.3  257.7  283.4  311.8  343.0  377.3  415.0  456.5
WOAs                              9S6.6  1085.3  1193.8  1313.2  1444.5  1588.9  1747.8  1922.6  2114.9  2326.4  2559.0
Subtotal                   1173.8  1291.1  1420.2  1562.3  1718.5  1890.3  2079.4  2287.3  2516.0  2767.6  3044.4
Total Recurrent Expenditure        2888.0  3073.5  3285.6  3613.4  4040.8  4579.9  5098.6  6043.6  6719.8  7474.6  8605.3
CAPiTAL EXPENDITURES
NPEC                                   13.2   14.5   15.9   17.5   19.3   21.2   23.3   18.7   14.9   11.9    9.5
Schools, claoon, stomae fac..
other statLOA infrastrcture        739.8  809.7  884.1  976.1  1078.8  1189.8  1309.1  1154.5  1044.6  972.3  932.0
Total Capital Expenditures          753.0  824.2  900.0  993.6  1098.1  1211.0  1332.4  1173.2  1059.5  984.2  941.5
INCREMENTAL EXPENDITURES WITH THE PROJECT
(1)  Providon of instructional materials
(a) Textbooks                    0.0   83.1   81.3   80.6  212.5  214.4  219.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(b) Library books                0.0    0.0   30.9   25.8   23.7   20.9   19.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(C) Distrbution costs            0.0    8.1   11.1   10.5   23.2   23.1   23.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
C2)  Vehicles and equIpment               0.0    0.0   85.5   88.4   54.0   15.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(3)  ConsUtancy services and TA           0.0    2.6    3.5    3.8    4.2    3.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(4)  Training                             0.0   35.0   24.5   24.9   10.9   20.3   23.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(5)  Research and development             0.0    4.4    9.7    6.1    4.6    4.7    3.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(6)  Momitoring/evaluatIon oper. costs    0.0    1.8    2.0    2.2    2.4    2.6    2.9    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Incremental Expendituws        0.0  13S.0  248.6  242.2  335.5  304.1  292.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES  3641.0  4032.7  4434.2  4849.2  5474.4  6095.0  6723.9  7216.7  7779.4  8458.8  9546.8



- 56 -                                          ANNEX 2-6
Page 4 of 6
NIGERA - NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED EXPENDITUJRES AND SOURCES OF FINANCING (contiued)
(in m{llions of current Nair)
1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995    1996   1997   1998    1999   2000
ESTIMATED DOMESTIC RESOURCES FOR PRIRY EDUCATION
Etrdetarv Allocation
Federal Govenment
Allocation to NPEF                  1000.0  1040.0  1081.6  1191.0  1334.2  1498.5  1687.3  1902.4  2145.0  2418.8  2727.8
Subvention to NPEC                     5.0    5.5    6.0    6.6    7.3        8.0    8.8    9.7    10.6   11.7   12.9
Subtot                      1005.0  1045.5  1087.6  1197.6  1341.5  1506.5  1696.1  1912.1  2155.7  2430.5  2740.7
States
Contibution towards salarinrlpension  495.4  515.2  535.8  590.0  660.9  742.3   835.9  942.4  1062.6  1198.2  1351.3
Allocation for overhead              176.0  193.6  213.0  234.3  257.7  283.4   311.8   343.0  377.3  415.0  456.5
Allocaion for capital expenditure     97.6  107.4   118.1   129.9  142.9  157.2   172.9  138.3   110.7    8S.5   70.8
Allocation for in-senice tranitg       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   28.0   30.2   32.7   35.5   38.5   41.7   45.2
Subtal                       769.0   816.2   866.9  954.1  10S9.5  1213.2  1353.3  1459.2  1589.0  1743.5  1923.8
LOAs
Contioa  wards salariedpension       353.8  368.0  382.7  421.4  472.1  530.2  597.1  673.2  759.0   855.9  965.2
Allocation for overhead              986.6  1085.3  1193.8  1313.2  1444.5  1588.9  1747.8  1922.6  2114.9  2326.4  2559.0
Allocation for cpital expenditue     461.5  515.6  573.1   633.7  697.4  764.1   833.0  666.4  533.1  426.5   341.2
AUoc for instructional materials      65.1   67.1   70.1   74.2   80.0  172.7  187.0  202.7  219.8  238.3  387.7
Allocation formaintonanc,              0.0    0.0   11.5   12.7   13.9   15.3   16.7   26.7   32.0   34.1   34.1
Subtotul                    1867.0w 2036.1  2231.2  2455.2  2707.9  3071.2  3381.6  3491.6  3658.8  3881.2  4287.2
Total Budgetary Allocation          3641.0  3897.7  4185.6  4606.9  5138.8  5790.9  6431.0  6862.8  7403.5  8055.2  8951.7
Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal RFITR)  0.0    0.0    14.9   14.4   33.8   39.9   40.9  346.6  368.0  395.1  586.1
Additional Governent contrnion              0.0   39.6   30.4   28.8   28.2   33.8   34.8    7.3    7.9    8.5    9.1
TOTAL DOMESnC RESOURCES             3641.0  3937.3  4230.9  4650.1  5200.9  5864.6  6506.7  7216.7  7779.4  8458.8  9546.8
DOMESTIC RESOURCE GAP          wn Ntl    0.0  -95.3  -203.3  -199.1  -m.5  -230.4  -217.2    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
(US$San)    0.0  -11.2  -22.6  -21.1  -27.5  -22.0  -19.6          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
FOREIGN FINANCING
IDA                                      0.0   91.0   199.0   194.8  264.5  221.3  208.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Other                                    0.0    4.4    4.3    4.3    9.0    9.1         8.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Poire  Firancni (nilnnNain)    0.0    9.3  2033   199.1M                      217.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
(S$mwn      0.0  (112)  (26)  (21.1)  (27.5)   20)  (19.6)    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
MPMORANDUM ITEM
Total Expmditures on Pimary ducation
as epccntageofNigeria GDP             1.5%    1.5%    1.4%    1.3%    1.3%    1.2%    1.2%    1.1%    1.0%    1.1%    1.2%



- 57 -                                        ANNEX 2-6
Page 5 of 6
NIGERIA - NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES AND SOURCES OF FINANCING (continued)
ASSUMPTIONS
RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
(I) Staff salaries (including pension)
(a) Number of primary education staff: Based on projectdns In Annex 3-1, at 1:40 teacher/pupil ratio.
350617 3617  5617 37122  399866 431135 467559 506873 549540 595849 646112
(b) Averago slary per staff: based on est. staff salaries In 1990 dividod by no. of teachers; increasing p.a. 0  4.0%
(Nalr)            4388   4563   4746   4936   5133   5339   5552   5774   600    6245   6495
(c) Total staff salaries: derived by multiplying estimatd number of teachers by average salary.
(mII Nears)     1538.5  1600.0  1664.0  1832.3  2052.6  2305.4  2595.9  2926.7  3300.0  3721.3  4196.6
(d) Pension: 15% of saff and LGA contributins to staff salries (see assumptions on budgetary allocation).
(2) Provision of Instrutional Materials
(a) Textbooks: See Annex 3-1, ealculation of teabook costs. Costs In 1991-96 financed by proposed project.
(b) Library books: financed by project in 1991-96; from 1997 at constant 1996 level.
(c) Distrbution Costs: at 10% of the total costs of textbooks and librmy books; financed by project in 1991-96.
(d) Other materials: at NS per pupil in 1991-94; N10 in 1995-99; NIS from 2000.
(3) Trainhnt (in-seavice)            at N70 per pupil from 1994.
(4)  Reserach and deveopment         financed by project in 1991-96; from 1997 at constant 1996 level.
(5) Monitorina and evaluation        financed by project In 1991-96; from 1997 at constant 1996 level.
(6)  Maintenance of buildlnas(vehlcles  at 2% of LGA budgetary allocation for capital expenditre from 1992-96; rlsing
to 4-10% from 1997-2000.
(7) Other overhead expenses          at constant 1990 budgeted expenditure.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(1) NPEC: at constant 1990 budgeted expenditure, decreasing by 20% p.a. from 1997-2000.
(2) Schools and other infrastructure: Total available for capital expenditure minus allocation for NPEC.
(3)  Total avaiable for capit   expendture = state and LGA allocation plus 20% of NPEF minus the difference between
NPEC's overhead expenses and federal government subvention to NPEC.



-  58 -                                       ANNEX  2-6
Page 6 of 6
NIGERIA - NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES AND SOURCES OF FINANCING
ASSUMPTIONS (continued)
INCREMENTAL EXPENDITURES WITH THE PROJECT
(I) Provision of instructional materials: See Annex 3-1, detailed cost tables.
(2) Vehicles and equipment: See Annex 3-5, detailed cost table.
(3) Consultancy and technical assistance: See Annex 3-8, detailed cost table.
(4) Training: See Annex 3-2, detailed cost table.
(5) Research and development: See Annex 3-4, detailed cost table.
(6) Monitoringlevaluation operating costs: See Annex 3-4, detailed cost table.
BUDGETARY ALLOCATION
(I) Federal Government
(a) Allocation to NPEF: at 65% of estimated staff salaries.
(b) Subvention to NPEC: at constant 1990 budgeted amount.
(2) State Government
(a) Contribution towards salaries: 28% of total staff salaries. Pension: 15% of contribution towards salaries.
(b) Allocation for overhead: at constant 1990 budgeted amount.
(c) Allocation for capital expenditure: at constant 1990 budgeted amount until 1996; decreasing by 20% p.a. by 1997.
(d) Allocation for in-service training: at N70 per pupil from 1994.
(3) LOAs
(a) Contribution towards salaries: 20% of total staff salaries. Pension: 15% of contribution towards salaries.
(b) Allocat'on for overhead: at constant 1990 budgeted amount.
(c) Allocerion f* capital expenditure: at constant 1990 budgeted amount until 1996; decreasing by 20% p.a. from 1997.
(d) Allocation for instructional materials: at N5 per pupil in 1991-94; N10 in 1995-99; N15 from 2000.
(e) Alocation for maintenance: at 2% of LGA allocation for capital expenditure from 1992-96; rising to
4-10% from 1997-2000.
REVOLVING FUND FOR TEXTBOOK RENEWAL (RFTR)
See Annex 3-1, table showing flow of funds from RFTR.
ADDITIONAL GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
For 1991-96: the difference between government financing required (as shown in fnancing plan for the proposed
project in Annex 3-6) and contribution from RFTR.
From 1997: the sum of estimated expenditures on research and development and monitoring and evala ..an.



- 59  -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA: PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
iNSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS COMPONENT
Introduction
1.        A major thrust of the project is the provision of instructional
materials as an a priori step in improving the quality of instruction. The
materials to be supplied are: (a) textbooks, (b) supplementary reading
materials and, if savings are achieved through textbooks being obtained at
better prices than anticipated, (c) teaching aids for geography and geometry.
Textbooks
2.        Obiectives.  To ensure that primary school children have access to a
set of core textbooks, and each teacher has a set of textbooks and teachers'
guides, at the beginning of each school year.
3.        Rationale.  The Nigerian Book Sector Study found the majority of
primary schools visited had less than 1OZ and many less than 12 of the ideal
number of textbooks - English Language, Nigerian Languages, Mathematics,
Science and Social Studies. The textbook availability picture was not
uniform, some elite private schools had 80Z or above of the basic textbooks
contrasting with many rural schools, particularly in the north of the country,
with virtually no books at all. Rural schools were worse off than urban and
the worst cases were schools whose access was difficult, especially those in
riverine areas. With some exceptions, southern states appeared to be better
supplied than northern states. English and Nigerian language textbooks were
most in evidence and, well after them, Mathematics textbooks. Textbooks in
other subjects were rare.
4.        The physical quality of textbook manufacture declined noticeably
between 1987 and 1989. Earlier, good quality 70-80 gsm woodfree paper was
used, card covers were protected with varnish or lamination, and binding was
acceptable with wire stitching for books of 96 pages or less and thread-sewn
for longer books. No compensation among users for the recent decline in
production standard was evident; books were not strengthened or repaired by
their users under the direction of teachers or parents.
5.        Books are distributed either through parents buying books (dominant
in the south) from commercial outlets or state-run retail outlets or through
state bulk purchase (dominant in the north) with free distribution, loan or
hire to students by the state. Commercial distribution is concentrated in
urban areas and at the main selling season the prices of the books are often
marked up wrery highly.
6.        In 1988/89 another method of distribution was experimented with
through the Federal Aid Book Project. This divided Nigeria into four zones
and chose one series (one for English and one for Mathematics) for each zone
to be distributed to schools, commissioned the copyright-controlling
publishers to supply film and paper to the printers in the four zones and to



60  _                          ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 7
pay authors' royalties, and commissioned the printers to manufacture and
deliver the books to the States in their zone. The Federal Ministry of
Education (FME) found that this method of distribution was not cost-effective,
the books were of poor quality and did not reach the schools within the
planned time. Because of the predominant distribution systems, northern
states generally have storage facilities at state and local government levels
and often some basic school storage arrangements. Southern states frequently
lack storage at these levels.
7.        The National Council of Education (NCE) decreed that the titles used
in primary schools should not be changed for six years as rapid changes to
recommended book lists have increased book cost to parents and state
governments through destroying the chance of re-using a book and amortising
its cost over several years. Booksellers' price mark-ups are often high
partly in response to reduced book sales (a result of cost inflation, lack of
disposable income among book buyers and the availability of pirated books) and
to the low discount (10Z) given by publishers on the catalogue prices of
primary school books. Cost to parents for a set of five books could average
between N50  and N68.  Bulk purchase by States reduces the immediate cost of
the set of 5 books to approximately 134 assuming a 25Z discount, but to this
has to be added the cost of transport, warehousing and storage at all points,
and administrative and staff costs which States must pay if they are to
purchase in bulk. Many States have accrued large debts to publishers.
8.        Strategies.  It would be ideal to provide all primary school
children with at least five textbooks -- English, mathematics, science, social
studies and local language. However, in view of the large number of textbooks
involved -- and hence the demand on printing, distribution and storage
facilities, as well as the implications on cost and financing -- the provision
of textbooks would need to be limited and phased over several years.
9.        The provision of basic textbooks would benefit from central
coordination by NPEC, which would be responsible for organizing their
production and distribution. The normal process of selection in which states
short-list recommended texts and local government areas choose from this list
is likely to involve the use of different textbooks in each state.  Similarly,
some textbooks are state-specific and/or use a local language for at least the
lower classes. Consequently, selection, production and distribution are
complex.
10.       In organizing the production and distribution of textbooks, NPEC has
drawn from the experience of: (a) the pilot textbook project in 1988/89 for
which N40 million was allocated for the provision of 6 million textbooks;
(b) the provision of curriculum modules to all primary school teachers and
continuous assessment booklets for primary school pupils over the next couple
of years; and (c) the findings of the recent World Bank/ODA Book Sector Study
whose findings were presented on February 1 and 2, 1990 in Lagos.
11.       Components.  The project will include provision of four
textbooks -- to be kept in the schools for children's use -- teachers' guides,
curriculum modules, class registers and continuous assessment booklets to
primary schools over a six-year period (1992-97).



- 61  -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 7
12.       In consonance with sound educational principles, mathematics,
science, English and social studies books will be phased in as follows:
First Project Year      Primary One
Second Project Year    Primary Two
Third Project Year      Primary Three
Fourth Project Year    Primary Four and replacement for Primary One
Fifth Project Year      Primary Five and replacement for Primary Two
Sixth Project Year      Primary Six and replacement for Primary Three
13.       In accordance with Nigeria's policy on Language of Instruction in
primary schools books will be provided in the following ratios:
Hathematics        One book for each pupil in Primary One through Six.
Science           One book for each pupil in Primary One through Three.
one book between two pupils in Primary Four through
six.
English           One book between two pupils in Primary One through
Three.
one book for each pupil in Primary Four through Six.
Social Studies    One book between two pupils in Primary One through Six.
14.       Simultaneously, teachers will be provided with the same set of
textbooks and teachers guides. Additional curriculum modules will be supplied
tc cover annual increases in teacher numbers. NPEC will continue to provide
class registers for all primary schools and continuous assessment booklets for
pupils entering class 1 each year.
15.       The attached tables show the number of pupils' and teachers'
textbooks in each subject that will be required in each year of the project
and until the year 2000.
16.       Cost and Financing.  The attachments also provide estimates of the
cost of providing the textbooks on an annual basis. The total cost of the
textbook component over the six-year project period (1991-96) will be N891.5
million (US$89.0 equivalent), allowing for physical and price contingencies.
17.       It is expected that about US$77.4 million will be allocated for this
component from IDA funds and US$4.0 million through cofinancing. The balance
of US$7.6 million (V77.1 million equivalent) will be provided by the
government. NPEC will determine the shares to be borne by the state
governments and local government authorities (LGAs) each year for the
provision of teachers' guides, curriculum modules, class registers and
continuous assessment booklets, and deduct at source from the federal
allocation for primary education.



-  62 -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 7
18.       Procedures.  A schedule of start-up activities has been drawn up as
an attachment to this annex. Selection of titles which is the responsibility
of NPEC is proceeding as follows:
(a) Publishers have been invited to submit samples of books which
conform to the following criteria:
(i) They are finished books drawn from approved state book lists
which means they have been proven useful, teachers are familiar
with them and the books are in supply in some schools.
Adoption of any of these books would maximise their use and
would not involve piloting of texts and intensive
familiarisation of staff outside the courses to be mounted
under the project.
(ii) Samples must be in English and local languages as appropriate.
(b)  Books are being evaluated for educational value using criteria
delineated by panels of Nigerian experts whose membership has been
approved by the Association. These criteria have been submitted to
the Bank for scrutiny together with minutes of the evaluation
meetings.
(c)  Titles of books reaching minimum criteria level will be circulated
to State Primary School Management Boards (SPSMBs) for selection.
Numbers will be based on LGEA requirements and will be transmitted
by the SPSMBs to the NPEC for consolidation by publisher and title.
Is estimated that, if five or six titles are adopted in each of four
subjects, there will be totals of 20 to 24 titles in project years
one, two and three respectively and slightly more than this annually
thereafter.
19.       Contracts will be drawn up with the relevant publishers who will be
responsible for book production using procedures acceptable to the Association
and which ensure acceptable production standards and minimum prices.
Distribution will be contracted out.
20.       States and LGAs have been alerted to provide for storage facilities
and improve the security in all primary schools before the start of the
project. This will ensure the safekeeping of the books and instructional
materials provided under the project.
21.       Supply of Paper.  A crucial factor in this component is the
availability of paper for the large volume of books to be printed and
delivered by January 1992. The production of books under the ongoing pilot
project has been hampered by the shortage of paper. NPEC, with assistance
from IDA and FME, will explore options for increasing the supply of paper for
the book component, including measures that need to be taken by the federal
government as well as the possibility of support from bilateral and
multilateral sources.
22.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  NPEC will closely monitor the
procurement, production and supply of books to the schools throughout the
entire process. Monitoring teams will be sent to schools to ensure that



- 63 -                           ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 7
proper storage facilities and adequate security are provided. They will
report on the use and care of books by teachers and students.
23.       Incremental Recurrent Costs, Cost Recovery and Sustainability.  In
order to provide some of the incremental recurrent local costs generated under
the project's textbook component and to sustain textbook supply after the
project a Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal (RFTR) is to be established.
The RFTR will be maintained in an interest-bearing account in an acceptable
financial institution. Into this fund will deposited a contribution equal in
value to the grant-aided paper and contributions from parents for their
children's use of textbooks. The initial cost recovery will be N6 per pupil.
Estimates indicate that the RFTR should ensure future sustainability (see
attach1nent to this annex). Parents will be responsible for lost or damaged
books. The mobilization of the district and village education committees in
1990 would assist in the collection of parental contribution. NPEC has
present to IDA a detailed plan for the RFTR, a plan to effect cost sharing and
to ensure parents assume responsibility for lost and damaged books.
Supplementary Reading Materials
24.       Objective.  To establish community libraries of primary level
supplementary materials at each local governmenz headquarters.
25.       Rationale.  Very few primary schools have libraries and almost no
useable supplementary materials are provided, nor is there space in
classrooms, storerooms or cupboards which could house a supplementary
materials collection. Awareness of the importance of additional reading
materials is in general lacking among parents and teachers. Despite the
government's acceptance of their importance, almost no funding has been made
available for their provision, nor are there sufficient relevant, culturally
specific local publications. Supplementary materials distributed in 1987 by
the Federal government disappeared into a system which has no organization to
handle, maintain or use them.
26.       Many states do not have State Library Boards and public library
support for primary schools is extremely limited. In 1989 only two
Bookmobiles of the nine states which had them were in operation. Some states
had book box loans but only Gongola appeared to have an adequate level of
loans. Other states operated book loans at a central level only which would
have minimum impact on classroom teaching. Teachers' centres are responsible
for providing ancillary aids, but, with the exception of Kaduna, Plateau and
Borno, rarely make primary school supplementary materials available.
27.       Training for teacherllibrarians for primary schools tends to be
strong in technical and organizational work but weak in pedagogic application.
28.       Strategies.  It would be ideal to provide a library in every primary
school or to operate a book box system which would make a substantial
selection of relevant readers available to schools on a rotating basis.
Unfortunately, at this time the costs and organizational complexity would be
prohibitive. However, it is planned to operate such systems in future. In
the interim, as a pilot project, a selection of primary level readers will be
placed in suitable library premises situated at each LGA headquarters. These
books, which will be selected by a committee convened by NPEC and procured



- 64 -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 7
through ICB in a manner acceptable to the Association, will be available to
pupils from local schools which will incorporate library periods into their
current curriculum so that they can read the books on the library premises.
Each LGA will be required to provide a library building complete with shelving
and security arrangements to the specifications drawn up by NPEC before
library books can be collected from the SPSMBs to which they will have been
delivered. An average shelving and storage requirement for an LGEA community
library will be for 10,000 volumes over five years. Under the project a plan
for training teacher-librarians will be developed and executed in a module of
the training component.
29.       A plan for the continuing availability of library books is not yet
in existence and will be drawn up under the research component of the project
when it can be seen how successful the community libraries are in terms of
their usage by pupils and by teachers in planning their lessons. Points to be
covered in the plan are: (a) source of finance for replacing worn-out books
and acquiring new books; (b) reporting line and source of decision on numbers,
subjects, titles of new and replacement books to be acquired; and (c) identity
of procurement agent.
30.       Cost and Financing.  Library books will be financed by IDA during
the project at an estimated cost of 1120.7 million (US$12.3 million equivalent
(see attachment to this annex)).
31.       MonitorinR and Evaluation.  NPEC will ensure that LGA library
premises are satisfactory and closely monitor the procurement, supply and use
of the library books through their monitoring teams.
Instructional Aids
32.       Objective.  To supply geography and geometry instructional aids to
Primary Six.
33.       Rationale.  Some instructional aids that are essential for effective
learning are absent from Nigerian primary classrooms. Manipulatives are
necessary for concept formation in the early school years but these can
frequently be improvised from the local environment. The more sophisticated
teaching/learning aids necessary for the latter primary classes are difficult
to improvise, may not be manufactured locally, and may be costly.
34.       Strategy.  If textbook prices are lower than anticipated the savings
will be used to supply schools with instructional aids "kits' comprising
learning aids for geography and geometry. Each kit will include a wall map of
the World, a wall map of Africa, a globe, a set of geometric solids and plane
figures, a set of chalkboard geometric instruments, and student sets of
geometric instruments (sufficient for a class).
35.       Cost and Financing.  It is estimated that 167.2 million (US$7
million equivalent) will be required for instructional materials.



- 65 -                                ANNEX 3-1
Page 7 of 7
NIGERIA: PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TEXTBOOK COSTS AND COST RECOVERY
The current situation
1.     Using publishers' catalogues and data from the Book Sector Study the following information was obtained
on the average current price of books in Mathematics, English, Science and Social Studies a) bought in bulk by
states and delivered to schools, and b) purchased through retail booksellers:
Grade I       Grades 2 and 3        Grades 4 to 6
State Purchase        N 8.9          N 11.10               N 13.6
Retail  English       Ranging from N 9 to N 27  Mean: N 20
Mathematics    Ranging from N 2 to N 18  Mean: N 9
Estimated delivered cost of books under the pro!ect
2.     Under the project minimum unit book cost (that is, the minumum unit cost of a book available for a school
year) should be realized due to the following:
a.     economies of scale will be realized since books are produced in large print runs,
b.     publishers' trade discounts now 10% will be increased for bulk purchase,
c.     paper wDi be bought at internaional market prices (current prices in Nigeria being at least 50%
above world prices),
d.     ICB will be used for production,
e.     distribution wIll be through LCB,
f.     production standards have been set to ensure adequate book life so that replacement can be
minimized and the price of a book can be amortized over at least three years
9.     criteria for book selection are being developed and it is assumed that suppliers will not go above
these criteria, and
h.     a bench-mark evaluation of price will be given on the basis of the supplier not exceeding minimum
standards.
Under these assumptions, allowing 10% trade discount, 20% delivery charge, and 10% annual hflation the estimated
average real cost unit pricc of books of the type to be delivered under the project:
Year:         1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1998   1997   1998   1999   2000
Price: N      7.92   8.71    9.58   10.54  11.59  12.75  14.03  15.43   16.97  18.67
(Note: Sustainability will depend upon Nigeria taking steps to ensure that similar procedures are used to
procure paper after the project, that is, procuring at international prices and possibly getting a tariff waiver.)
Cost Recovery
3.     Assuming a book life of three years and that each child has access to the equivalent of three textbooks, the
cost of books provided to each chid in each three-year cycles is:
Cycle:                1992-1994             1995-1997             1998-2000
Cost per child
per cycle: N           27.03                 36.39                  50.40
Amortized over
three years:            9.01                 12.31                  16.80
If, In order to acclimatize the public to the scheme, a user charge was applied at NS per child per annum for the
first three-year cycle, increasing to N9 in 1995 and N 12 in 1998, the following data are obtained:
Cycle                        1992-94        19957          1998-2000
Book user charge                6             9              12
per child per annum.
% of price recovered:         66.6           73.1           71.4
Average % cost recovery: 70%
4.     These figures indicate that a high level of cost recovery could be achieved at minimal cost to parents.



- 66 -                                             ANNEX 3-1
Attachment
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CALCULATION OF NUMBER OF TEXTBOOKS REQUIRED IN THE FOLLOWING SCHOOL YEAR
1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000
Assumptions
(1) In two subjects, one textbook per child; in two other subjects, one textbook between 2 children.
(2) Phasing: Primary I pupils and teachers in Year 1 (1992); Primary 2 in Year 2; Primary 3 in Year 3;
Primaty 4 in Year 4; Priary S in YearS; and Primary 6 in Year 6.
(3) Book lff of3years (100% replaccment of textbooks every threeyears).
(4) No partil replenishment of textbooks in interim years.
(5) Assumptions ow population, enrollmaent and number of techers are attached.
NO. OF TEXTBOOKS REOUIRED IN TWO SUBJECTS                       No. of nubjcts:                                  2
No. of pupils sharing each textbook:             I
Replaement ratio:                             0.0%
Primary  pupils & teachers        7200110         0          0   S575447         0          0  10213494          0         0  12164435
Primaiy2pupils&teachers                     6408098          0         0   7889411          0         0   9702820          0          0
P.rmay 3 pupils & teachers                             5767288         0         0   7337152          0          0   9314707          0
Primary 4 pupils & teachers                                      5248233         0          0   6896923          0         0   8942119
Primaty S pupils & teachers                                            0   4828374          0         0   6552077          0          0
Priay 6 pupils & teachers                                              0         0   4490388          0          0   6289994          0
Subtotal              7200110   6408098   5767288  13823679  12717785  11S27340  17110417  16254897  15604701  21106554
NO. OF TEXTBOOKS REQUIRED IN TWO OTHER SUBJECT'S               No. of subjects:                                  2
No. of pupils sharing each textbook.             2
Replacement ratio:                            0.0%
Primary I pupils & teachers       3687861         0          0   4392302         0          0   5231302          0         0   6230564
Primary 2 pupils & teachers                 3282197          0         0   4040918          0         0   4969737          0          0
Primary 3 pupils & teachers                            2953977         0         0   3758054          0          0   4770947          0
Primary 4 pupils & teachers                                      2688119         0          0   3532570          0         0   4580110
Primary 5 pupils & teachers                                            0   2473070          0         0   3355942          0          0
Primary 6 pupils & teachers                                            0          0   2299955         0          0   3221704          0
Subtotal              3687861   3282197   2953977   7080421   6513987   6058008   8763S72   8325679   7992652  10810674
TOTAL                        10887972   9690295   8721266  20904100  192317    17S85548  25874290  24580575  23597352  31917228
Total: 1991-96 (win)             87.3



- 67 -                                               ANNEX 3-1
Attachment
Page 2 of 7
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS ON POPULATION, ENROLLMENT, AND NUMBER OF TEACHERS
1989      1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000      2001
TOTAL POPULATION
Gzo,h mm     3.06%      3.06%     3.06%      3.06%     3.06%     3.06%      3.06%     3.03%     3.03%      3.03%     3.03%      3.03%     3.03%
(non)        115.0     118.5      122.1     125.9      129.7     133.7     137.8      142.0     146.3      150.7     155.3      160.0     164.9
PRIMARY SCHOOL AGE POPULATION                        Assumpton: 17.8% of totl populatin
(WMi)         20.5      21.1       21.7      22.4       23.1      23.8      24.5       25.3      26.0       26.8      27.6       28.5      29.3
ENROLLMENT
Asumpons:
(J) Bsed on 1988/89 dass enrodlment figws
(2) From 1990-202, dCas I enromet to inese at:
6.0%      6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%       6.0%      6.0%
(3) Drop-out raft as follows:
12.0%     12.0%     12.0%      12.0%     11.0%      10.0%      9.0%      8.0%       7.0%      6.0%       5.0%      4.0%      4.0%
Pdmay 1    2948952   3125889   3313442   3512249   3722984   3946363   4183145   4434133   4700181   4982192   5281124   5597991   5933871
Prlma  2    2410413   2595078   2750782   291529   3125902   33S0686   3591190   3848493   4123744   4418171   4733083   5069879   5374072
Prmnn 3    2235849   2121163   2283668   2420689   2595088  2813311   3049124   3303895   3579099   3876319   4197262   4543759   4867084
Prima  4     1915403   1967S47   1866624   2009628   2154413   2335579   2560113   2805194   3072622   3364353   36S2503   4029372   4362009
Prmfy        1722216   1685555   1731441   1642629   1788569   1938972   2125377   2355304   2608830   2888265   3196135   3535203   386S197
Pdmary 6    1517608   1515550   1483288   1523668   1461940   1609712   1764464   1955347   2190433   2452301   2743852   3068290   3393795
Total   12750441  13010782  13429247  14024693  1448895  1S994623  17273414  18702367  2W74910  21981601  23833959  2584449   27799027
EarI.Ratlo      61X%      61.71X-  -6t8X       66  --  64.3X:                               - 6   70.4   -  74.0X  77.8%  81.%  6.2%  90.7%  94.7%
NO. OP TEACHERS                 Assumpton: From  1992, esatiaed at 140 teacher/pupi rato, based on erollment fige)
Primary 1                                     87806      93075     98659    104579    110853    117505    124555    132028    139950    148347
Primary 2                                     72896      78148     83767     89780      96212    103094    110454    II327    126747    134352
Pdmy 3                                        60517      64S77     70333     76228      82597     89477     96908    104932    113594    121677
Pdmary 4                                      50241      53860     58389     64003      70130     76816      84109     92063    100734    109050
Pdmay 5                                       41066     44714      48474     53134      58883     65221     72207      79903     88380      96705
Primay 6                                      38092      36548     40243     44112      48884     54761      61308     68596     76707      84845
Toa number of teacher                    350617    371222    399866    431835    467559    50673    549540    595S49    646112    694976



- 68 -                                         ANNEX 3-1
Attachment
Page 3 of 7
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
COST OF TOTAL NUMBER OF TEXTBOOKS REQUIRED IN THE FOLLOWING SCHOOL YEAR
1991     1992    t993      1994     1995     1996     1997     1998     1999    2000
Qualt of =a ud   (tn)
PtrImy 1-4                     2134.0   1899.2   1709.3  4097.1   2338.3  2174.6  5071.2  2875.7   2760.7  6255.5
Prlmy 5-6                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   1426.4   1326.5      0.0   1935.6   1858.1       0.0
Subtal                      2134.0   1899.2   1709.3  4097.1   3764.6  3501.1   5071.2  4811.3  4618.8  6255.5
cnr!ea1
Prlmay 1-4                      308.5    274.5   247.1   592.3    338.0    314.3   733.1   41S.7   399.1    904.3
PImey 5-6                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    126.1    117.3      0.0    171.2   164.3       0.0
Subtotl                      308.5    2745    247.1    592.3   464.1    431.7   733.1    586.9   563.4    904.3
Coat pf wner. f.o.b. (million Naim)
Tell paper                         13.7    12.2    10.9    26.2    24.1         22.4    32.5      30.8     29.6    40.0
Cover paper                         1.2      1.1      1.0      2.4      1.9      1.7      2.9      2.3      2.3      3.6
TOa                           14.9    13.3      11.9    28.6      26.0     PA       35.4     33.1     31.8    43.7
TOTAL COST  OF TEXTBOOKS REQUIRD (mnllon Naira)
POD Cost                      14.9    13.3      11.9    28.6      26.0    24.1      35.4     33.1     31.8    43.7
Frit and Inaane                2.2      2.0      1.8      4.3      3.9      3.6      5.3      5.0      4.8      6.5
Impoit taiff                   2.6      2.3      2.1      4.9      4.5      4.2      6.1      5.7      5.5      7.5
subtotal                     19.7    17.5      15.8    37.8    34.3       31.9     46.8    43.8    42.1       57.7
Pro.t-on Costs *
bi_nd. proft. etc.)           59.1     52.6    47.3    113.4    104.4    97.1    140.4    133.4    128.0    173.2
Subtotal                  78.8    70.1       63.1    151.2   138.7    129.0    187.2    177.2    170.1    230.9
L1  Publishers' dsca1t                 7.9      7.0      6.3      15.1     13.9     12.9     18.7     17.7     17.0    23.1
Toal cot at tdisoied pce         70.9    63.1      5J      II       124.S   116.1    168.5    159.5    153.1   207.8
Coetlagarclca                 12.2     18.2    23.8    76.4       89.6   103.5    125.4    151.7    180.4    296.8
Toal coa                      83.1     81.3    80.6   212.5   214.4   219.5    293.9   311.2    333.6    504.6
A_,mptins
(1)  Ppe pu ase at July 1990 word prices:
Text pWr    800.0 (USS)       6400.0 Nar)
Cover paper   500.0 (USS)     4000.0 (Naiba)
(2)  Qudntiy of paerrequird per mgllionbooks(ton):
Pbmaty 1-4 textboob (96 pag  Crown Quo):      Text a               196.0
Corpaper              2S.3
Pdmay 5-6 texboosi (160 papa Dani-Octavo):    Txt papr             19S.4
Cower pap             17.3
(3)  UAIt c o  NaJ    bookspuishedInNigerianuly 1990 pri   (Nairs):
Papcr                 25.0%
Text papr                       1.3      1.3
Covepaper                       0.1      0.1
subtotal                     1.4
Fp    tand  uranc               0.2  1S% oFOB co
Iapottawff                      0.2  1S% ofCIPcoat
Total paper cot                1.8
Publishers admin cost    25.0%   1.8  Inlude admlalatve cata, ryalie  profis. etc.
Odr producn cot    40.0%         2.9   nclbudes pdltl, bindi,g  aellanom matels, etc.
Pubiaod price                 7.2
Diaout               10.0%      0.7
Discouatd price               6.5



- 69 -                                  ANNEX 3-1
Attachment
Page 4 of 7
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
REVOLVING FUND FOR TEXTCBOOK RENEWAL (RFTR)
(in miMions of Naira)
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
EBanmc (beqinnig of ycar)      0.0    4.7   16.7   69.2  156.0  313.4  506.3  405.8  425.6  449.0
Deposs into RFTR
Recovery of per cost (fob)    4.4    4.3    4.3    9.0    9.1    8.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Parents' Contribution      0.0   21.1   56.7   96.0  155.5  168.3  182.5  329.7  357.5  387.7
Tota Deposits           4.4   25.4   60.9  105.0  164.5  176.7  182.5  329.7  357.5  387.7
Witd rawas from RFTR
Total co of txtbooks, library
books & disdbution    (91.2) (123.3) (116.8) (259.5) (258.4) (262.2) (346.6) (368.0) (395.1) (586.1)
Of which:
Financed by RFTR        0.0   14.9   14.4   33.8   39.9   40.9  346.6  368.0  395.1  586.1
hncres carned during the year  0.3    1.5    6.0   15.7   32.8   57.2   63.6   58.0   61.0   52.5
Banaee (end of year)           4.7   16.7   69.2  156.0  313.4  506.3  405.8  425.6  449.0  303.1
ME4MO  ESM  Parens' Share of Contibutin to RFTR, 1991-96
ToW Deposits                            536.9
Of which: Pares' Contribution        497.5
% of Total                92.7%
ASSLUMIONS (1) In 1991-96, payment for gant-idedpper will be deposited in the RFTR.
(2) Parents wil contribute for each chid shadrg books in school each year at the following levels:
(Nair per child)
0.00   6.00   6.00   6.00   9.00   9.00   9.00  15.00  15.00  15.00
(3) WAthdrawals from theRFT  wil stanfrom 1992.
(4) Deposits in the RFTR will e  interest at annul rate of:  15.0%



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-1
Attachment
Page 5 of 7
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TEXTBOOK COMPONENT START-UP MECHANISM TIME SCHEDULE
May 1, 1990 onwards            Convene textbook evaluation committee
Delineate textbook evaluation criteria
Submit criteria to IDA
Invite samples of English, Science,
Mathematics and Social Studies book series
in use
Evaluate books
Submit minutes of evaluation meetings to
IDA
Prepare list of books satisfying criteria
Submit lists to states for LGEA choice
September, 1990 onwards        Prepare procurement documents
October 1, 1990                LGEA decisions on books to be finalized
Send advertisement to Development Business
January 15, 1991               Bid advertisement appears
February 15, 1991              Two-month bid submission period
April 15, 1991                 Bid evaluation period
May 1, 1991                    Contracting
May 1, 1991                    Paper movement
June 1, 1991                   Printing
September 1, 1991              Shipment of finished books
November 1, 1991               Port clearance
December 1, 1991               Delivery to LGEAs and schools
January 31, 1992               Books in schools



NIGERIA- PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
(in millions of Naim)
---1991- -1499- -1993- -1994- -199- -1996-  -1991--6-
Ll Fo1FM         TOtal Loa  Poe    Total Lod  Poe1V  Tota  Loc1 1p     Total Local Poreg  TOWl Loa  Poiga Tota  Loca  Foreign TOt
(I) TEmnTOOKS                        ASSUTIOS:   (1) awier All hov4 freidght aad i n  at 15% of FO  cost; hBo  arffat 15% of FOB 00
0  Toael eoe tfoboa per cackJdatk prsatd in AC1wAt to Anx 3-1.
(3) Prouhwtion coats (i Vpinth. bhzdg pubDi.,' dbir cet9 sk)                     1991-4       1995-9
Shar of lol cot           25.0%        3.0%
Saew of fregn coss        75.0%        65.0%
Papes   POB                             14.9  14.9          13.3  13.3         11.9  11.9         28.6  28.6          26.0  26.0         24.1  24.1   0.0  118.7  118.7
PFe4gt and ins.                  2.2   2.2          2.0   2.0           1.8   1.8          4.3   4.3           3.9   3.9          3.6   3.6   0.0   17.8  17.8
Import tariff             2.6          2.6   2.3           2.3   2.1          2.1   4.9          4.9   4.5           4.5   4.2          4.2  20.5   0.0  20.5
ProductIo costa                  14.8  44.3  59.1  13.1   39.4  52.6  11.8  35.5  47.3  2SA   85.1  113.4  36.5  67.8 104.4  34.0  63.1  97.1 138.6  33S.2 473.8
Total cot@publtlhedprico     17.3  61.4  78.8  15.4   54.7  70.1  13.9  49.2  63.1  33.3  118.0  151.2  41.0   97.7 138.7  38.1   90.8 129.0  159.1  471.8 630.9
Cost discounted at 10%        15.6  55.3  70.9  13.9  49.2  63.1  12.5  44.3  56.8  30.0  106.2 136.1  36.9   87.9 124.8  34.3   81.8  116.1  143.2  424.6 567.8              I
LESS Duties and taxes          2.6   0.0   2.6   2.3    0.0   2.3   2.1   0.0   2.1   4.9    0.0   4.9   4.5    0.0   4.5   4.2    0.0   4.2  20.S    0.0  20.5               _
Total Base Cost <A               13.0  5S.3  68.3  11.6  49.2  60.8  10.4  44.3  54.7  25.0  106.2 131.2  32.4  87.9 120.3  30.2   81.8 111.9  122.7  424.6 547.3
Pbysical cngncos               0.7    2.8   3.4   0.6    2.S   3.0   0.5    2.2   2.7   1.3    5.3   6.6   1.6   4.4   6.0   1.5    4.1   5.6   6.1   21.2  27.4
Price coatingencis             1.8   6.9   8.8   3.0   12.2  15.2   4.1  17.0  21.0  13.4   56.5  69.9  22.5  61.1  83.6  26.2   71.7  97.9  71.0  225.4 296.3
Tota Coat <b             1.1   65.0  83.1  17.5   63.9  81.3  17.1   63 S  S0.6  44.6  167.9 212.5  610  153.4 2144  62.0  157.5 219.5 220.3  671.2 891.5
Of whieb:Paper FOB Ba Coat     0.0   14.9  14.9   0.0   13.3  13.3   0.0   11.9  11.9   0.0   28.6  28.6   0.0   26.0  26.0   0.0   24.1  24.1   0.0  118.7 118.1
Physcal Cos              0.7   0.7           0.7   0.7          0.6   0.6           IA    IA            1.3   1.3          1.2   1.2   0.0    5.9   5.9
Price CaL                 1.9   1.9          3.3   3.3          4.6   4.6          15.2  15.2          18.0  IRO          21.2  21.2   0.0   64.1  64.1
Total Coat               17.5  17.5         17.2  17.2          17.1  17.1         45.2  45.2         45.3  45.3          46.5  46.5   0.0  188.8 188.8
US$I 4LEQUIV: BSaa Coat            1.6   6.9   8.5   1 S    6.2   7.6   1.3   5.S   6.8   3.1   13.3  16A    4.1  131.0   S.0   3.8   10.2  14.0  15.3  53.1  fl
P*yIcal Cot.       0.1    0.3   0A4   0.1   0.3   0A4  0.1    0.3   0.3   0.2   0.7  0.8   0.2    03   0           0.2    0.5   0.7   0.8   2.7   3.4
PriceeCOOL        0.1   0.4   0.5   0.2    0.7   0.8   0.2    0.4   1.1   0.7    29    3.6   1.1    3.1  4.3   1.3    3.5   4.8   3.4   11.5  15.1
Dutlos/Taxes      0.3    0.0   0.3   0.3    0.0   0.3   0.2   0.0   0.2   0.-   0.0   0.5   0.4A   0.0   0.4   0.4    0.0   0.4   2.1    0.0   2.1
T.alCoA            2.1    7.6   9.7   1.9   7.1   9.1   1.8   6.7   S.5   4.5   16.9  21.4    .    14.7  20.    5.6   14.2  19   21 .   67.2  89.0   p  ¢ 
Paper FOB: Base Cost      0.0    1.9   1.9   0.0    t.7   1.7   0.0    I.S   1.5   0.0    3.6   3.6   0.0    3.2   3.2   0.0    3.0   3.0   0.0   14.8  14.         fl
Physical COat.           0.1   0.1           0.1   0.1          0.1  0.1            0.2   0.2          0.2   0.2           0.2   0.2   0.0   0.7   0.7
Prie Coat.               0.1   0.1           0.2   0.2          0.2   0.2           0     00.9   0.9                       1.0   1.0   0.0    3.3   3.3   °
Total Codt                2.1   2.1          1.9   1.9           1.8   1.8          4.5   4.5          4.3   4.3           4.2   4.2   0.0   18.8  18.8        t
<a   Excluding duties and taxes.
<b Including dutics and taxes.



NIERIA - PRIDAY EDUCATION PROJECr
ESTIMATED COSS OF INSMRUCTIONAL MATERIALS (coetind
(in mill  of N&ia)
-1991- -1992- -193--1994- --1995- -1996- -1991-96-
Loca  FoweipT Tota Locl Poeip  Totl Local Fod i  Tot  Load  Foreign TotW  Lca  Foea  sa  Local Forin Totl Locl Foig  TOW
(2) ULPARYDOOIaS: DaisCot            0      0.0   .0  3.   20.0  23.8  2.0  16.0  13.0   2.0  13.0  15.0  2.0  10.0  12.0  2.0   3.0  10.0  11.3  67.0  78.3
Phyal ctgenocas              0.0   0.0  0.0  0.2   1.0  1.2  0.1   0.S  0.9  0.1   0.7   0.8  0.1   0.5  0.6  0.1   0.4  0.5  0.6   3.4  3.9
PrIc cotloebns               0.0   0.0  0.0   1.0   5.0  5.9  0.3   6.1  6.9  1.1   6.9  8.0  1.4   7.0   8.3  1.7   7.0   8s   6.0  32.0  37.9
TOW Cost                0.0     .   0.0  5.0  26.0  30.9  2.9  22.9  25.8  3.2  20.6  23.7  3.5  17.5  20.9  3.8  15.4  19.3  134  202.3 120.7
stms.Q sV         i DacCoat      0.0:  0.0       0   .   2.5  3.0   03    2.0   ZS   0.    1.6   _9  0.3   1.3 ._ 25   03    jj                 L _S   .4   L
PhIaCOMIL         0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.1  0.1  0.0   0.1   (1   0.0   0.1  0.1  0.0   0.1  0.1   0.0   0.1   at   0.1   0.4  04
Pit" C004.       0.0   0.0  0.0  0.1   0.3  0;3  0.0   0,3   O           0.1   0.4  0.4  0.1   OR   0.4   .1   0.3  0.4  0.3   1.6    .
Tdtat Coat    - 0       0.0... 0.0  0.6    2     3.4  0.3    I     2.1  0.3           2.4   0     1.7   3     09           III   ii    0
(3) DISTRBUTION COSTS A8mpdow    10.0n  ofthe b.n costs oft.zolobdlhibnm   book;                      ha reof ocal cos:00.0%    frein 0&sts        0.0%
BD  Coa                       6       0   6.8  S.5   0.0  8.5  7.3    ._0  7.3  14.6    .0  14.6  13.2   0  13.2 2.        2    0. 12.2  62.6   0.0  62.6
Phytal contlngecs            0.3   0.0  0.3  0.4   0.0  0.4  0.4   0.0  0.4  0.7   0.0  0.7  0.7   0.0  0.7  0.6   0.0  0.6  3.1   0.0  3.1
PrIce conlgones               1.0   0.0   1.0  2.2   0.0  2'2  2.8   0.0  2.8  7.8   0.0  7.8  9.2   0.0  9.2  10.6   0.0  10.6  33.6   0.0  33.6
Total Cot                8.1   0.0  8.1  1.    200  11.1  10.5   0.0  1.5  23.2             23.2  23.1   0.0  23.  23.4          23.4  99.3    .0  99.3
US$M  INQUIVBae Coa                   g0    9              l .0   LI   0.9   g.0   0.9  IA    0.0  IA   1.7   0.0   J.   1.S   0.0 L5           -    0.9  7.8
PysalCoit         0.0   0.0   0.0   O.t   0.0  0.1  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.1   0.0.  0.1  0.1   0.0   0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1  0.4  00   0.4
Pric. oo.         0.1   0.0  0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1   0.2   0.0  0.2   0.4   0.0  0.4   O.S   0.0   0.5  OS    0.0   0.5  1.7   0.0  1.7
TotalCoat         1.0   0.0 _  -   j1    0.0   1.2  1.1   0.   j:'. 2.1   0.0  2.   2.2            .        2        0     2.1  9.9   0.0 _
Tl               I



- 73 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 8
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROGRAMME FOR UPGRADING PRIMARY EDUCATION PERSONNEL
Introduction
1.        The quality of primary education has remained unsatisfactory in
spite of the tremendous efforts on the part of the Government of Nigeria
towards its development and expansion. In 1976, universal primary education
was introduced and has since been a priority for the sub-sector. Review and
evaluation of the performance of the sector as a whole, led to the development
of a national policy on education which was published in 1977 and subsequently
revised in 1981. The revised education policy re-emphasised FGN objective to
increase access, improve the curriculum making it more relevant to the needs
of Nigerian society and provide adequate teaching and learning materials. FGN
is making a new attempt to improve the quality of and access to primary
education. Among the many efforts being made are the following:
(a)  In 1988 the Federal Government decided to supplement the financing
of primary education with the hope that: (i) teachers would receive
prompt salary payment; (ii) classrooms would be refurbished and
(iii) textbooks and teachers guides would be provided;
(b) The Federal Government established a National Primary Education
Commission (NPEC) with responsibility for managing and administering
primary education nationwide. Various levels of administration have
been set up, namely, Primary School Management Boards (SPSMBs),
Local Government Educational Authorities (LGEAs), District Education
Committees (DECs) and Village Education Committees (VECs); and
(c) Parents are being encouraged to participate in education.
2.        With these new arrangements, it is hoped that the following will be
achieved: (a) increased enrollments; (b) increased attendance; (c) improved
school places; and (d) additional teachers.
3.        However, optimal utilization of resources is not guaranteed.
Although new instructional materials have been prepared in many subjects,
most teachers and headteachers have not received significant orientation in
the revised curriculum. Hence there is need to undertake extensive
orientation of personnel involved in primary education.
Obiectives
4.        The training programmes would be designed to achieve the followings
(a) Optimal use of resources
- staff to be more effective in the delivery of lessons (with
emphasis on increasing the level of utilization of instructional
materials including resources in the local environment). Teacher
upgrading would be integrated in the regular work programme.



- 74 -                           ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 8
(b) Strengthening educationl planning, management and administration:
- strengthening the capabilities of the NPEC, FME (the primary
education and the project implementation units), state MOEs and
other bodies through improving skills and attitudes.
- facilitating collaboration among the various organizations
involved in primary education.
(c) Strengthening the management information system:
- Computerization of educational data and establishment of an MIS
network among NPEC, SPSMBs, LGEAs and schools to ensuret
(i) free flow of information;
(ii) effective information sharing; and
(iii) availablity and use of data for educational planning.
Content and Structure of the Training Programme
5.        The content of the programme -would be relevant to the training needs
identified by the various agencies involved in primary education. However,
special attention would be given to: (a) core curriculum; (b) local arts and
crafts; (c) continuous assessment and remediation; (di teaching of large
classes and mixed ability groups; and (e) teaching multi-grades in small rural
schools.
6.        The training programme would be prepared in modules.  By contractual
arrangements, Nigptian universities and polytechnics would develop appropriate
programmes in educational administration, planning and statistics,
respectively, and undertake workshop accordingly. The programme would
emphasize hands-on experience in a face to face context. Training would be
provided for NPEC, FME, MOE, SPSMB and LGEA personnel. The training
modalities would includet (a) workshops; (b) tailor-made courses (local); (C)
nine-month courses in local and foreign institutions; and (d) combination of
study tours and short term courses.
7.        Approximately 400,000 educators would be trained under the project.
The areas to be covered by the various groups would be as follows:
(a) Practitioners
(i) Teachers (356,342)
a. Teaching of the core subjects (mathematics, science,
English, and social studies);
b. Local arts and crafts;
c. Continuous assessment;
d. Classroom management (large classes, multi-grade and
mixed-ability groups);
e. The care of books; and
f. Record keeping.



- 75 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 8
(ii) Headteachers (36,000)
a. Similar to that for teachers; and
b. Management and use of resources.
(iii) Education officers/Visiting teachers (2,300)
a. Similar to that of headteachers;
b. Identifying training needs; and
c. Organizing and holding workshops
(b) Administrative Staff
(i) The project would provide 285 staff months of tailor-made
courses for educational planners (46), administrators (453)
and statisticians (46). The educational planners would
undertake a four-week training course comprising two weeks of
educational planning and two weeks of school mapping. Six
consultants (four local and two foreign) would be recruited to
assist with the educational planning including school mapping)
courses.
(ii) Senior statisticians (23) would be given 207 staff months of
long term fellowships to local universities. Computer
operators (49) would receive 294 staff months of short .erm
fellowships to attend appropriate training programmes offered
in local institutions.
(c) Training Abroad
Twenty-four staff months of short term fellowships would be
provided for NPEC staff in educational planning (2), educational
research (2) and project management (1), and 18 staff months of
fellowships in data management (2). Staff of the FME (PIU and
Primary Education Unit) would receive 24 staff months of short term
fellowships in primary school administration (2) project management
(2) project accounting (1) and project procurement (1). Priority
would be given for staff to be trained in appropriate universities
in the region.
Training Strategy
8.        Because of the large number of areas and grades to be covered,
training for the grade levels would be undertaken on a phased basis. In year
one of the project, the training programme would concentrate on the needs of
Grades 1, 2 and 3 and training for the remaining three grades would be
undertaken in the second year. In subsequent years, the training programme
would be based on the weaknesses identified among the various groups of
educators. Primary school teachers who are subject speciilists would be
included in the training programme for the first two years. Subject
specialists together with class teachers would amount to about two-thirds of
the primary teaching force.
9.        In order that the programme be sustainable and affordable by the
Government of Nigeria, there would be several levels of trainers -- allowing



-  76 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 8
for the multiplier effect. In addition, an on-the-job teacher training
programme would become an integral part of the work programme of both teachers
and education officers.
Organisation of the Trainers
10.       The categories of trainers would be as follows:
(a) the master trainers (about 230) - these trainers would be drawn from
the staff of tertiary institutions, ministries and parastatals.
They would receive intensive orientation, organized by NPEU in
collaboration with institutions and professional organizations
involved in primary education, covering the proposed training areas.
These trainers would train the education officers and would provide
backup support to them in the training of headteachers.
(b) education officers (Core Trainers - approx. 2,300) - the education
officers would be the core trainers and would be responsible for
training all primary school teachers and headteachers. These
education officers would utilize a combination of: (i) school-based
training where the education officer would visit schools and hold
training workshops for the headteachers and assistant teachers and
(ii) education officers would arrange training workshops in a
central venue.
Institutions Involved and Their Main Responsibilities
11.       NPEC would have overall responsibility for management and co-
ordination and monitoring and evaluation of project implementation. NPEC
would:
(a) review and update national training plans;
(b) prepare national training budget;
(c) coordinate development and production of training materials;
(d) approve master trainers;
(e) monitor progress of training programs; and
(f) approve list of non-teaching staff for training.
12.       The SPSMBs would:
(a) prepare and upgrade primary training plans at state level;
(b) prepare training budgets;
(c) recommend master trainers;
(d) assist the with production of training materials;
(e) select education officers for training;
(f) monitor (including statistical recording) progress of training for
all cadres of staff; and
(g) recommend non-teaching staff for training.
13.       LGEAs would:
(a) prepare training plans and budgets for the authorities;
(b) recommend staff for training as education officers;
(c)  keep record of school-based and cluster trainirg programmes.



-  77 -                          ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 8
14.       NERDC would:
(a) prepare prototypes of curriculum materials for the training
programmes; and
(b) develop and pilot test teachers guides in the core subjects.
15.       At the statsi !svel, MOE would:
(a)  monitor and evaluate the training programmes; and
(b) select non-teaching staff for training.
16.       At federal level, FME would:
(a)  monitor and evaluate the progress of the trairing programmes with
special reference to determining the impact and effectiveness of
these programmes in improving the quality of education; and
(b) select staff for training.
Evaluation
17.       A measure of self evaluation has been built in the programme per se.
To determine the impact of the training programme, evaluation procedures and
mechanism would address the following:
(a) teacher effectiveness in presenting lessons, using instructional
materials frequently and effectively, particularly materials taken
from the local environment;
(b) utilization of data to prepare micro plans for training;
.c) extent of collaboration among agencies in organizing and
implementing the training programmes;
*d) student achievement; and
(e) appropriateness of the placement of trained administrators.
Costs
18.       The training component will cost approximately M139.6 million (see
attachment). By the fourth year of project implementation, in-service teacher
upgrading costs would be incorporated in states' recurrent budgets.
Schedule of Training (Attached)



- 78 -                         ANNEX 3-2
Page 6 of 8
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TRAINING MODEL FOR EDUCATIONAL PRACTITIONERS
Master Trainers
(230)
rEducation Officers      l
L      ~~(2,300)
Headteachers        <
(36,000)
|___   ITeach _ers_
(School-based Training)
Teachers
Cluster Training)



1.IGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTEMATED TRAINING COSTS
aIn miio  of tNai
---1991---- -------1992-----   -1993-  ---- ---1994----                                          ----1996-- --1991-96-
Local Forig  Total Loal Fortp  Total Local Foreip  Totat Local Poei  Total Local Foign Total Local Forcei  Total L[cal Foreig  Total
LOCAL TRAINNOG
(t) Teacben                       6.1          6.1   9.3          9.3   9.5           9.5   6.9          6.9  11.6         11.6  12.5         12.5  55.9   0.0   55.9
(2) Had teacbers                  3.6          3.6   3.6          3.6   3.6           3.6   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0  10.8   0.0  10.8
(3) EdAationOfficran             tl.O         11.0   0.0          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0  11.0   0.0   11.0
(4) Maoesrtln,iat                 4.8          4.8   0.0          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   4.8    0.0   4.S
(5) Education planer              0.6          0.6   0.0          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.6   0.0   0.6
(6) Eduation admIiniato           1.3          1.3   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   1.3   0.0   1.3
(7) Statsaiea                     0.1          0.1   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.1   0.0   0.1
(8 Senitattlc                     1.1          1.1   0,0          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   1.1   0.0   1.1
(9) Compute operat                0.5          0.3   0.4          0.4   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.9   0.0   0.9
(10) Aoutant                       0.1          0.1   1.4         1tA    1.4           1.4   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   2.9   0.0   2.9
TRAING ABROAD
(I) Educ dti ada atiatlo                0.0   0.0          0.4   0.4          0.4   0.4          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8   0.8
(2) Educatonal plamng                    0.0   0.0          0.4   0.4          OA   0.4            0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8   0.8
(3) Eduatil resah                        0.0   0.0          0.4   0.4          OA   0.4            0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0    0.8   0.8
(4) Dat managemen                        0.0   0.0           1.4   1A          tA   1.4            0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   2.7   2.7
(3) Proect management                    0.0   0.0          0.8   O.           0.4   0.4           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   1.2   1.2
(6) PrJect accoun5t                      0.0   0.0          0.4   0.4          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4   0.4
(7) procuree                             0.0   0.0          0.4   0.4          0.0   0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4    OA
Totl Base Cos                 29.4   0.0  29.4  14.7   4.1  18.8  14.4    2.9  17.3   6.9   0.0   6.9  11.6   0.O  11.6  12.5    0.0  12.5  89.5   7.0  96.5
Physcal conthnges              1.5   0.0   1.5   0.7   0.2   0.9   0.7   0.1  0Q9   0.3   0.0   0.3   0.6   0.0   0.6   0.6   0.0   0.6   4.5   0.3   4.8
Prico Cotagencls              4.1    0.0   4.1   3.8    1.0   4.8   5.6   1.1   6.7   3.7   0.0   3.7   8.1   0.0   8.1  10.8   0.0  1.S  36.1   2.1  3S.3
Total Coat               35.0   0.0  35.0  19.2   5.3  24.5  20.8   4.2  24.9  10.9   0.0  10.9  20.3   0.0  20.3  23.9   0.0  23.9 130.1   9.5  139.6
US$M lK EQUIV: Ba Cot             3.7   0.0   3.7   1.8   0.5   2.3   1.8    OA   2.2   0.9   0.0   0.9   1.5   0.0   1.5   1.6   0.0   1.6  11.2   0.9  12.1
Physical Cot.     02      .O   0.2   0.1    0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1    0.0   0.1  0.1   0.0   0.1                      0.6 0
Price Cont.       0.2   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.3   0.3   0.1   0.4   0.2   0.0   0.2   0.4   0.0   0.4   0.5   0.0   0.5   1.9   0.1   2.0
Total Cost        4.1   0.0   4.1   2.1    0    2.7   2.2   0.4   2.6   1.1   0.0   1.1   1.9    0          1.9   2.2   0.0   2.2  13.6   1.0  14.7        °
Cl



-80 -                       ANNEX 3-2
hi i
2fi1
iRI aS
0  !  ^  f   
!91 §!fl||QnA$~~~~~C
38   0|8"|R§§   §0001000~~C
I   -RstRs    RRR
i   § ,l ^2 8|g228 8 R   ffifi§fi if
i I  00t           X tl!t
I 3-est*                -e2 e



- 81 -                       ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTABLISHMENT OF A MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
Obiective
1.    To provide a valid and reliable data base allowing for more
informed decisions to be taken by educational planners and policy
makers.
Rationale
2.    There is a general lack of reliable data base needed for policy
decisions. Educational data have been collected as needed and there has
been no efficient ongoing data collection and analysis procedures. In
the face of the federal government's renewed emphasis on upgrading and
expanding primary education, it is essential that a management
information system (MIS) be established to provide timely and reliable
data.
Components
3.    There are two main phases:
(a)   Data collection and collation
Data should be collected at the school level by
teachers and headteachers and compiled at various
administrative levels -- district, local government,
state (SPSMBs) and national (NPEC).
(b)   Data analysis
This would occur at the various administrative levels
but would be computerized and analyzed in detail by
SPSMBs and NPEC.
Staff Training
4.    Staff would receive training in computer operations, statistics
and data management (see Annex 3-2 on program for upgrading of education
personnel).
Equipment, Materials and Vehicles
5.    Equipment would be needed as follows:
(a)   Computers and appropriate computer software -- one mini-
computer for NPEC and two micro-computers for each SPSMB;
(b)   Two photocopiers;



- 82 -                      ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 2
(c)   Two duplicating machines; and
(d)   Eight filing cabinets.
6.    Six all-terrain vehicles would be needed, one for each NPEC zonal
office and two for NPEC headquarters.
Strategies
7.    The following strategies would be undertaken:
(a)   agreement would be reached with NPEC and the SMOEs on the
type of data to be collected and the frequency of data
collection;
(b)   a mechanism for collecting and verifying data would be
established;
(c)   a systems analyst would help NPEC in determining the most
appropriate system for data management;
(d)   the new computers would be compatible with those already in
the system;
(e)   arrangements would be made for servicing and maintenance of
the computers;
(f)   arrangement would be made for back-up service; and
(g)   measures would be taken to ensure the safety of the
computers.
Costs
8.    Equipment and materials cost estimates are included under vehicles
and equipment in Annex 3-5.



- 83  -                         ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT. MONITORING AND "VALUATION
A. Research and Development
1.         Establishment of minimum standards for primary education would be
the focus of educational research in the initial years of the primary
upgrading programme. The conceptual models to be adopted would look at
primary education in three phases -- the antecedents, intervening variables
and outcomes (input-process-output).
Oblectives
2.         The objectives of the research component are to provide fort a) the
conduct of basic research to guide future plans for mirln.um standards, and (b)
feedback to planners in upgrading and reviewing existing plans and priorities.
Research Programme
3.         The research programme during the project will incorporate
investigations into the following areas:
(a) Infrastructure
(i) Classrooms. Undertake survey of existing practices in
infrastructure with special reference to withstanding
possible natural hazards (wind, rainstorm and humidity);
(ii) Furniture. Carryout survey of practices to forestall
misappropriation and stealing; and
(iii) Equipment and materials. Develop proto-types for low cost
teaching equipment and visual aids.
(b) Local Environment - Investigate the extent to which the local
environment is being utilized to enrich the learning experience in
the classroom. Review the upgraded national curriculum in core
subjects including Arts and Crafts with a view to identifying:
(i) the scope for local resource items; and
(ii) the availability of such research items in selected typical
rurallsub-urban and urban communities.
(c) Conducting Lessons in the mother tongue - Survey present
practices and observe strengths and weaknesses.
(d) Effects of Demography on Classroom Management - Survey to determine
distribution of large and multigrade classes. Findings of the
survey would determine the extent of specialized training needed
for handling such classes. On the basis of these findings, an



_ 84  _                         ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 7
appropriate teacher training course would be developed and pilot
tested.
(e) Establishing Libraries - Development of alternative modalities for
organizing library services to which primary school children have
access.
(f) Academic Achievement - Prepare and validate instruments for
determining the academic achievement of primary school children at
specified level(s) of the school system.
The Components
4.         In order to improve the quality of the output from the primary
school system, serious attention would be given to the manner in which the
intervening variables are manipulated. Priority would be given to the
following six areas:
(a) Standardization of infrastructure;
(b) Use of local environment (resources);
(c) Conduct of lessons in Grades 1,2 and 3 in the mother tongue;
(d)  Effect of devography on classroom management practices;
(e) Alternative modalities for establishing library services; and
(f) Academic achievement of primary school children.
Strategy
5.         A combination of thre:. strategies would be employed: (a) the
National Primary Education Commission (NPEC) would undertake research; (b)
NPEC would undertake research in collaboration with institutions and
individuals; and (c) NPEC would award contract to individuals and
institutions.
Manaaement of Educational Research
6.         The Research Unit of NPEC would be responsible for co-ordinating
the implementation of the research component. A professional committee for
the management, monitoring and dissemination of research has been established.
The p:oject will enable ongoing interaction between this committee and local
and international researchers by, for example, including international experts
in relevant specialized fields on supervision missions and arranging for them
to attend research report seminars. In order to fund ongoing research the
NPEC is making provision for this purpose in its budget. It is anticipated
that this may attract further research funding.
ExPected Outcomes
7.         Following are the expected outcomes of the educational research
component:



- 85  -                         ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 7
(a)  Physical standards for provision of primary education (building
design and furniture);
(b)  Report identifying resources of varioas villages and towns
particularly with respect to local arts, crafts and sites;
(c) Analytic report on use of Nigerian Languages in primary school
teaching;
(d) Report on innovations in classroom management;
(e) Feasibility study for the establishment of community libraries;
(f) Test batteries and manuals for determining the academic achievement
of primary school children; and
(g) A teacher training course for multi-grade teaching.
Utilization of Research Findings
8.         The research findings would:
(a) form the basis for development plans and policy in the primary
education sub-sector;
(b) influence preparation of rolling plans for project implementation;
(c) influence discussions in meetings and conferences and tha content
of training programmes; and
(d) contribute to academic publications.
Costs
9.         The research component is estimated to cost 133.3 million (US$3.5
million) as shown in the attachment to this annex.
Schedule (See Annex 3-7)
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
Obiectives
10.        To monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of project intervention
in improving various aspects of primary education through collecting and
analysing data, at intervals, during project implementation. Specifically,
the monitoring and evaluation exercise would: (a) identify the extent to which
each objective has been achieved; (b) determine and analyse factors hindering
the attainment of project targets; (c) prepare alternative methods for
resolving the problems identified; and (d) make available periodic reporta to
the project manager on the overall progress of project implementation.



- 86 -                          ANNEX 3-4
Page 4 of 7
Rationale
11.        Implementation of the project would involve schools, Local
Government Educational Authorities (LGEAs), state Primary School Management
Boards (SPSMBs), State Ministries of Education (SMOEs), NPEC and the Federal
Ministry of Education (FME). Although each organization has defined
responsibilities, successful performance of its functions would depend on the
extent to which it collaborates with other bodies participating in the
project.
12.        The primary education project was proposed as part of a global
effort by the FME to upgrade the quality of education in the sub-sector. The
project aims to:
(a) Infrastructure - identify and refurbish buildings, in proximity to
primary schools to be utilized as community libraries and provide
storage facilities for textbooks in all primary schools;
(b) Curriculum Delivery System - provide upgrading programmes for
teachers, headteachers and supervisory and administrative
personnel;
Cc) Textbooks and Instructional Materials - provide adequate supplies
of textbooks and instructional materials;
(d) Institutional Strengthening - improve the capabilities of NPEC,
PSMBs, and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Primary
Education Unit in FME through providing staff fellowships,
equipment and vehicles; and
(e) Libraries - establish a community library service.
Strategy
13.        Because of the complexity of the project, in conjunction with the
numerous organizations involved and the large geographical area to be covered,
a carefully structured evaluation mechanism is needed to ensure that resources
are efficiently utilized towards achieving the objectives of the project. The
strategies for monitoring and evaluating the various project components, the
organizations responsible, and the timing are summarized below.
Strategies for Monitoring        Organizations
Proiect Component         and Evaluation              Responsible      Year
Infrastructure      Field staff would be              NPEC/LGEAs       On-going
assig.ed to identify the
number of schools with
book storage facilities
the number of LGEAs having
community libraries.



87                            ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 7
Strategies for Monitoring        Organizations
Proiect Comaonent         and Evaluation              Responsible      Year
Curriculum          Assessment of the progress        LGEAs,with       On-going
Delivery             of the training programmes       assistance
for teachers, headteachers       from NERDC
and supervisory personnel.       NTI, Univ.
Detailed record keeping          Ed. Res.
on the number of training        Centres,
sessions held, the attend-       SPSMB,
ance of participants and         F.I.S
and the areas covered.
The records would be
channelled through
the LGEAs, SPSMBs, to NPEC.
The impact of training on        Same as          1993,1995,  1996
classroom teacher                above
behaviour--the extent to
which the teachers are
using the methodologies
introduced in the training
sessions to improve class
teaching. Small teams of
educators drawn from various
instutions would observe
and evaluate class teaching
in years three and four of
the project.
Institutional       Investigate the placement         NPEC
Strengthening       and functions of the
administrators and managers
who have been trained in
specialized areas to
determine the extent to
which their training
experiences are being
utilized.
Keep detailed record of          NPEC             On-going
numbers trained and areas
of specialization
Textbook             The teams of educators           LGEA in          1992 to
Availability         observing class teaching         collabo-         1996
would also take a count          ration with
of books available to            SPSMBs,
pupils.                          NPEC



- 88 -                          ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 7
Strategies for Monitoring        Organizations
Prolect Comvonent         and Evaluation              Responsible      Year
Financial           Annual analysis of educa-         LGEA, SPSMBs    1992-
Provision            tion expenditure to iden-        NPEC             1996
tify the extent to which
there is an appropriate
balance between proportions
of expenditure on salaries
and instructional materials.
MIS and              Assessment of the quantity       NPEC             1992-
Educational          and quality of data,                              1996
Planning             data analysis and the
timeliness with which
results are reported.
Assessment of the extent         NPEC
to which the states and          SPSMBs
NPEC prepare annual roll-        LGEAs
ing plans and monitor the        DECs
implementation of such
plans. A review of these
annua l plans with a view to
identifying the extent to
which: (a) the targets are
realistic and (b) they
allow for optimal use of
resources.
Vehicles and         Careful record keeping of        NPEC             Ongoing
Equipment            the procurement and mainte-
nance of vehicles and
equipment under the project.
14.       Student achievement would be one of the indicators of the success of
project intervention. NPEC's Research Unit would develop the test batteries
and arrange for administering tests to Grades 4 and 5 during the 3rd and 5th
years of project implementation.
15.       Annual renorts would be prepared on the progress of project
implementation and submitted to FME for transmission to the World Bank.
Incentil'es
16.       In order to encourage good performance in iCL. various areas of the
project and at various administrative levels, incentives would be provided by
FME.
(a) PME would continue to assist the states by making contributions
equivalent to 65 percent of teachers salaries to them if they
fulfilled their financial obligations to the education budget.



- 89 -                          ANNEX 3-4
Page 7 of 7
(b) Library books would be covided to those states which established
community libraries.
tc) Personnel training would be provided free of charge to the states.
(d) Subsequent to the training of the education officers in each state,
two vehicles would be provided for assisting school visits.
Costs
17.       This component's operating costs are estimated at 113.8 million.
Vehicles are included in the MIS (Annex 3-3) and costed in Annex 3-5.
Schedule (See Annex 3-7)



NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND OPERATING COSTS OF MONITORING AND EVALUATION
(in millions ofNaira)
-1991  --1992-- -----1993---  ---1994-- -1995- -1996- --1991-96-
Local PorcEn Total Local Pora4n Total Local Foreign Total Local Foegnp Total Local ForPn Total Local Foreign Totwl Local Fozlgn Total
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
(1) a&btdidtlocGd=*naule              0.7          0.7   1.0          1.0   1.0         1.0  0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0  0.0          0.0   2.7   0.0   2.7
(2) Usce ofload oanimtsymoitwss       0.0          0.0  0.5          0.5   1.0          1.0   1.0          1.0  0.8           0.8   0.5         0.5   3.8   0.0   3.8
(3) TonhiaoInmcthr ton                0.0          0.0  0.7          0.7   0.4          0.4  0.0           0.0  0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   1.1   0.0   1.1
(4) Effcaotd mogmpIy ondoss mgan      0,0          0.0  0.7          0.7   0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0  0.0           0.0   0.0         0.0   0.7   0.0   0.7
(5) A1tomemaodetsfor eonsa*yh-rmew    0.0          0.0   0.0          0.0   0.3         0.3  0.4           0.4   0.4          0.4  0.0          0.0   1.1   0.0   1.1
(6) Ac8oia acctpevM at p*%            0.5          0.5  1.0           1.0   1.5         1.5  1.5           1.5   1.5          1.5  l.S          l1S   7.5   0.0   7.5
(7) sahoo uppina                      2.5          2.5   3.5          3.5  0.0          0.0  0.0           0.0   0.0          0.0  0.0           0.0   6.0   0.0   6.0
Total Baw Cods                3.7   0.0   3.7   7.4   0.0   7.4  4.2   0.0   4.2   2.9   0.0   2.9   2.7   0.0  2.7   2.0   0.0   2.0  22.9   0.0  22.9
Physical contingencies        0.2   0.0   0.2  0.4   0.0   0.4   0.2   0,0  0.2  0.1   0.0   0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1   1.1   0.0   1.1                      I
Price contingencies           0.5   0.0  0.5   1.9   0.0   1.9   1.6   0.0   1.6  1.6   0.0   1.6  1.9   0.0   1.9  1.7   0.0   1.7  9.2   0.0   9.2
Total Cost               4.    0.0   44   9.7   0.0   9.7  6.1   0.0   61   4.6   0.0   4.6  4.7   0.0  4.7   3.8   0.0   3.8  33.3   0.0  33.3
US$ ULN EQUV: Bag Cost            0.5   0.0   0.5  0.9    0    0.9  0.5   0.0   0.5   0.4   0.   04   0.3   0.0   0.3  0.3   0.0   0.3  2.9   0.0    -9
Physical Coat     0.0   0.0  0.0   0        0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0,0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.1   0.0   0.
Price Cot.        0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0  0.1  0.1   0.0   0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0  0.1   0.5   0.0   0.5
TOal Cost         0.5   0.0  0,5   1.1   0.0   1.1   0.6   0.0  0.6  0.5   0.0   0.5  0.4   0.0   0.4  0.3   0.0  0.3   3.5   0.0   3.5
MONITORING AND EVALUATION (Opcsting Coats)
Basw Cosu                     1.5   0.0   1.5  1.5    0       1.5   1.5   0.0  1.5   1.5    00      .    1.    0.0   1.5  1.5   0.0   1.5   9.0   0.0   9.0
Physical contingencies        0.1   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0  0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0  0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1   0.5    Q.0   0.5
Price contingencies           0.2   0.0  0.2   0.4   0.0   0.4   0.6   01.0  0.6  0.S   0.0   0.S   1.0   0.0   1.0  1.3   0.0   1.3  4.3   0.0   4.3
Total Cost               _8    0.0   1._   2.0   0.0   2.0   2.2   0.0  2.2   2.4   0.0   2.4  2.6   0.0   2.6  2.9   0.0   2.9  13.8   0.0  13.8
US$ML  EQUIV: Base Cot           0.2   0.0  0.2   0.2   0.0   0.2   0.2    O        .2  0.2   0.0   0.2  0.2   0.0   0.2  0.2   0.0  0.2  1.1   0.0   1.1              >
Physical Coat.    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.    0.0   0.    0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.1   0.0    0 1               rt
Price Cont.       0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.0  0.1  0.1   0.0  0.1   0.2   0.0   0.2
Total Cost        0.2   0.0   0.2  0.2   0.0  0.2   0.2   0.0  0.2  0.2   0.0   0.2  0.2   0.    0.2  0.3   0.0  0.3   1.4   0.0   1.4                   U'
______              0 



- 91  -                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA: PRIIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND MEDIA CAMPAIGN
A. Institution Building
1.        Objectives.  To reinforce institutional capacity to improve the
education system and to implement education projects.
2.        National Primary Education Commission (NPEC).  As a newly
established body, NPEC requires:
(a) a computer system for data storage, analysis and retrieval as
described in Annex 3-3;
(b) a library providing a broad, easily accessible information source of
existing data and information gathered by NPEC;
(c)  vel.icles for use in review and monitoring exercises; and
(d)  training for various staff categories; in particular data gatherers,
processors, analysts, financial analysts, online information
specialists, and researchers, as outlined in
Annex 3-2.
3.        Pr-'ject Implementation Unit (PIU) in FME.  To help improve the level
of staff competence for project planning, management and implementation,
provide mobility for project monitoring, and to improve the unit's procurement
capabilities, the project will strengthen the PIU in the following areas:
(a) staff development as outlined in Annex 3-2;
(b) project vehicles;
(c) office equipment; and
(d) procurement technical assistant and counterpart officer as described
in Annex 3-8.
4.        Primary Educati3n Unit (PEU) in FME.  This unit will largely provide
a bridge between the NPEC and the PSMBs and will need to be strengthened in
the following areas:
(a) staff development as outlined in Annex 3-2;
(b) vehicles; and
(c) office equipment.



_ 92 _                          ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 2
5.        Primary Schools Management Boards (SPSMBs) and Local Government
Education Authorities (LGEAs). As newly formed institutions these require
strengthening in the following areas:
(a) staff training, especially of accountants and MIS staff, as outlined
in Annex 3-2;
(b) office equipment; and
(c) vehicles.
B. Media Campaign
6.        Obiectives.  To keep the public informed of developments in primary
education and to enlist support for increased enrollments, better retention,
redressing of regional and gender imbalances, and for cost recovery.
7.        The NPEC has begun a public enlightenment campaign through the media
and using publications such as a diary, newsletter and calendar. This is to
be continued and intensified. The project will provide necessary visual and
audio recording, projecting and playback equipment to produce and disseminate
information at local and national levels.
C. Costs and Financing of Institutional Strenxthening and Media Campaign
8.        Costs of training components are included in Annex 3-2.  Procurement
personnel are included under technical assistance and consultancy service
costs in Annex 3-8. The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment is 1243.06
million (US$25.75 million equivalent) as shown in the attachment to this
Annex.



NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS OF VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
(i miiUiou of N*r)
- 1991 -    IM993-- -    - -1lg -994 ---- - -1995 --- - 1996 -    -  191^-%
Local Fomign Total Loesa  Forcigm Tota Loca  FotW Total Lowt  nmi  Tl1ta Local Fai  Totl Locat Fotcip TotFi Local Fei  Total
Ddlively Qeo         o.eo o.oo  .0  9.95  36.00 45.95 10.24  36.03 46.24 5.27 IS.AD 23.27?.0   O.OD o.oo QOO0 QOO   O.OD QO25.45 9D.eD) 125.45
Lad  oVS                         .eo   O.OD  0.00  2.10   3.17  5.26  0.79   1.1S  1.95  OC O.OD     o.eo O.OD o.0    .ao  O.OD  o.eo   0.00  O.OD  2.S9   4.32   7.2
(2) Computet cqlpMnen
Mkrcocmpuftet                   o.ao   O.OD  Q030  Q06  0Q36  0Q42  Q.07  0Q40  0Q46  o.ao   QOO   .0 O.OD QC     0.OD  o.ao  o.ao   O.OD  QO  0.13  0Q?6  0Q89
Pdntet                          0.OD   o.eo  QO  0Q02   0.09  0.1  0.01  0Q06  0.07  0.00   OO 0.C 0  0.00  0.00 O.D   .Q0  0.00   OO 0.00 oe   0.02   QIS   0.17
1Axti PntemOA 0.00 o.eo                           0O .os   0.55  0Q64  Q.03   0.20  0Q23  QC00O  .OD  QOO  o.ao   O.OD  o.ao  QOD   o.oo  O.OD  0.12   0.7S  0Q8?
UPS                             o.eo   o.oo  0.03  0.2D   1.20  1.40  0.09   0.55  0.64  0.08   0.44  0.5t  0.00   O.OD  o.eo  0.00   0.00  O.CO  0.37   2.19   2.55
D lea                           0.OD   o.eo  O.OD  0.00   0.03  0Q03  O.CO   0.03  0.03  o.eo   Q.03  Q.03  O.OD   O.OD  O.0 CO  .OD   QOO  O.OD  0.1   Q080  o.09
(3) Offi-  tQO
Duplicaft big ma                0.00   0.00  0.00  O.09   0.52  0.61  0.06   0.35  0.41  0.00   o.ao  0.00  o.oo   o.ao  o.oo  o.ao   o.eo  o.eo  0.15   0.87   1.01
Scede8t                         0.00h O.OD o. .a,o  0.08   0.46  0.53  0.03   0.17  0.19  o.eo   o.ao  o.eo  o.eo   o.ao  o.oo  O.OD   O.OD  o.eo  Q10   0.62   0.72
Photoopet                       Q.00   0.00  o.eo  1.81   6.56  S37  1L86   6.56  S.42  1.60   5.46  7.07  1L65   5.46  7.11  o.ao   O.OD  O.OD  6.93  24.05  30.97  
Eledsc vpedo                    0.ao   0.00  o.ao  0.10   0.60  0.?0  0.09   OM5  0.64  0.09   0.55  0.64  0.10   0.5S  0.64  o.eo   O.OD  o.ao  0.38   2.24   2.62
Filinig cAbinet                 O.OD   0.00  O.OD  0.10   0.62  0.73  0.11   0.62  0.73  0.11   0.62  0.73  0.11   0.62  0.73  0.00   O.OD  0.00  0.42   2.49   2.92  
(4) AVdio-vIs equlpmeaS <a
Overt:4proetors                 .OD   o.eo  0.00  0Q14   0.52  0.66  0.15   O.S2  0.66  0.1s   0.52  0.67  0.16   O.S2  0.67  0.00   0.00  O.OD  0.60   2.07   2.67
ce                             ODOD   o.eo  Q030  0.0  0Q23  0Q33  QOD0  o.eo  o.eo  O.OD   0.00  O.OD  QO    oeoQ0 O.OD            QOO .0    00   O.OD  0.0  0Q23  0Q33
Vidsome                          .OD   QOO  Q.0003 Q05    12  O.IS8  O.OD   QOO  QOO  o.ao   o.eoQO O.OD OM        O O.OD     o.ao   QOO0 O.OD o.0   .as   0.12   QIS8
Move ptepctone                  o.eo   o.eo  O.OD  0.34   1.24  I.S9  0.71   2.4S  M.9  0.511  1.97  2.35  0.00   O.OD  0.00  o.oo   o.eo  0.00  1.63   5.70   7.33
Projec-toktt.O 0.00   0.00 oe   0.02   0.12  0.14  Q.03   0.16  0.19  0.02   0.12  0.14  o.eo   o.eo  0.0ro  o.oo   O.OD  o.eo  0.07   0.41   0.48
coa film                        o.ao   QO  0.00  Q.06   0.33  0.39  0.04   0.25  0.29  0.04   0.25  0.29  o.ao   o.ao  0.03  0.00   O.aD  o.eo  0Q4   0.S3   0.97
Suttl                   QO.O   O.OD  0.00 15.31  52.72 6S.03 14.31  so.03 64.34  7.9S  27.96 35.91  2.01   7.15  9.t6  Q030  O.OD  o.eo 39,57 13?.S7 177.44
LESS Du-tiesittW ue          0.00   0.00  0.03  9.45   O.OD  9.45  S.?S   O.OD  S.75  4.84   o.eo  4.S4  1.21   0.00  1.21  0.03   O.OD  0.00 24.2S   0.03)  24.25
TOW BCfw Codts <b            0-00   0.0   0 Q_    S,S6  S2.72 589S.SS .6  SO.03i 55.S9  3.1t  27.96 31.07  0Q79  ?7IS  7_9   2.O  OX Q e QO   t S.32 137.S7 153.1
Pbydical eoteneiek            00 O.OD   0.03   0.0 Q29   2.64  2.93  0Q2S   2.S0  2.fS  0.16   1.40  I.SS  0.04   0.36  0.40  O.OD   0.00  0.00  0.7?   6.S9   7.66
Price contingencie-          0.00   0.00  0.03  1.52  13.05 14.57  2.17  19.15 21.33  1.66  14.SS 16.54  0.55   4.97  5.52  QeD0  o.eo  O.OD  5.91  S2.06  57.96
Totall Cost <c          O 00   QOD0  Q QO 17.t2  68.41 8S.S3 16.76  71.69 U.45  9 76  44.24 S4.00  2.60  12.4S 15.0S  QCO0   QO0  0.00 46.24 196.S1 243.06   >X 
US$ MLN EQUtV: Base Cost        Q03   oao  o.eo  0Q73   659  7?32  0.69   6.25  6.9S  Q.39   3.50  3SS0.8S909    ,0                    O Qo   .tX2   19.0 Is             i
Piwskoal Cont.   OO O.CO     0.00 O.O    04   0.33  0.33  0.03   0.31  0.35  0.02   0.17  0.19  O.QO   0.04  O.Q5  0.00   0.0   0.00  0.10   0.S6   0.96 n
Prce Cont.       0.0 000  O.QO  00.0O.9   0.70  0.7S  0.12   1.02  1.14  0.09   0.78  O.SS  0.03   0.2S  0.28S ,0 0.00 OD   0.0  0.32   2.7S   3.07         W
Dutie/traxes     0.0D0O.CO  0.00  1.05   o.eoD  1.0O M.9   0.00  0.93  0.49   0.00  0.49  0.12   0.00  0.12  O.OD   0.00  0.00  2.58   QOD0  2.5S  ° 0 it
Total Cost       0.00   QCO  QOD  1.91   7.62  9.53  1.77   7.58  9.36  0Q9S   4.45  5.43  0.25   1.19  1.44  _.0   _.0   _.   4.91  20.84  25.75  "; r
<a Fot medss rmpign.                                    <h Excluding duties and taxes.               <c Including duties and taXCfi.



- 94 -                          ANNEX 3-5
Attachlment
Page 2 of 2
eoeeeeXoceeoc
' RE-0n qq*qqqoo*|q|.oO
_~~~f ~A~U ~AO~d
I~~~~~~~~f
Il                                --g
II                    _ 
a  ~~~I  #                                *1 tl  S  t     t**bt*  t    eeb
ii I                    q  !M           I  iSMM    



- 95 -                                             ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 5
NIGERA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY YEAR
(mlbion Naim)                    -_tmlSlion)
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 1991-96    1991  1992  1973  1994  1995  1996 1991-96
(1) Textboos                        68.3  60.8  54.7  131.2 120.3  111.9   547.3     8s   7.6   6.8  16.4  15.0  14.0   68.4
(2) Lb"y boo                         0.0  23.8  18.0  15.0  12.0  10.0    788.       0,0   30   23    1.9   1.5   1.3        9.9
(3) Disrb%dw cost                    6.8   85   7.3  14.6  13.2  12.2   62.6         0.:     li   0.9   1.8   1.7   1.5    7.8
(4) Vehicls and equpmnt              0.0  58.6  55.6  31.1   7.9   0.0   153.2       0.0  7.3    9    39    1.0   0.0    19.1
(5) Con_usneyserNI=& TA              2.2   2.7   2.6   2.6   1.8   0.1    12.0       0,3 -03   0.3             0.2   0.0     1.5
(6) Trabnn                          29.4    8   17.3   6.9  11.6  12.5   96.5        5,7   2.3   2.2   0.9   I.S   1.6    12.1
(7) Resah  and develoen              3.7   7.4   4.2   2.9   2.7   2.0   22.9        0.S   0.9   0      0.4   0.3   0.3      2.9
(i) Maitorlugandovalutioa            1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5    9.0        432   0.2   .:2   0.2   0.2   0.2       1.1
Ttatl bscoo/a                112.0  1820  161.3 205.S  171.1  1501   92.2    14_0          20    25.7  21.4  18.8   122.8
Phydecal_ond"                  5.6   9.1   8.1  10.3   8.6   7.5   49.1    0,.7  1.   1,0   I.3   1.1   0.9    6.1
Pic onatIgene                 14.9  45.7  62.1  109.7  118S 131.1   482.2       .     2 3.3    .5.7   6.1   6.4    24.8
Dutie and txe                  2.6  11.7  10.8   9.8   5.7   4.2    44.7       03    1.3   lI    1.0   0.5   0.4       4.7
tal project cots /b      135.0 248.6 242.2 335.5 304.1 292.   1558.3    15.8  27.7  256  33.7  29.1  26.4   158.4
Soures: DetaLd cost tbles n   exa   3-1,3-2,3-4,3-5 and 3-
la   xclui dtis and ta.
/b bncudn dies and taxe.



- 96 -                                               ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 5
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
BY LOCAL AND FOREIGN EXPENDITURES
(millin Nara) -                               (USS  dmillio       n -
% For. X of Total                            % For. X of Ttal
Local Foreign   To     Eh   Bas Cost         Loa  VOfl    Total  Vkcb.  Base Cost
(1) Textbok                         122.7   424.6   547.3  77.6%    55.7%          1       53.1    684  77.6%    5s.7%
(2) Lbray books                      11.8    67.0    78.8  S5.0%      8.0%          1.5     8.4      .   85.4%      S.0%
(3) Distition costs                  62.6     0.0    62.6   0.0%      6.4%          1.8     0.0     7.8   0.0%      6.4%
(4) Veicles and eqpment              15.3   137.9   153.2  90.0%    15.6%           1.9   -        I9.1  90.%    15.6%
(5) Csulaney services & TA            1.2    10.7    12.0  89.7%      1.2%          0.2     1.3     1.5  89.%       1.2%
(6) Training                         89.5     7.0    96.5   7.2%      9.8%          1.      0.9    12.1   7.2%      9.8%
(7) Recanuddevelcpmeot               22.9     0.0    22.9   0.0%      2.3%          2.9     0.0   .2.9   0.0%       2.3%
(8) Monitoring and evaluation         9.0     0.0      9.0   0.0%     0.9%         L.      0.0      .    0.0%     0.9%
Total base cost /a            335.0   647.2   982.2  65.9%   100.0%         419j   80.S   122.8  65.9%   100.0%
P-ysic  conigncies             16.8    32.4    49.1  65.9%     5.0%          2.1     4.0      ;1  65.9%      5.0%
Price contingencies           166.7   315.6   482.2  65.4%    49.1%          86    16.2    24.8  65.3%    20.2%
Duties and taxes               44.7     0.0    44.7   0.0%     4.6%          4.7-   0.0    -4.7   0.0%       3.8%
Total poject coss b       563.2   995.1  1558.3  63.9%                                  L8 101.1   1584    .9%
Sources:  Detailed cost tables in Annee 3-1, 3-2. 3-4, 3-5 and 3-8.
/a Excluding duties and taxes.
/b    luding duties and taxe



- 97 -                                              ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 5
NIGERIA - PRMMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
(million Nair)                          ((USS illion) ----------
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 1991-96    1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 1991-96
(1) IDA
Textook                       72.4  70.9  70.3  187.9  184.0  189.5  774.9      85   7.9   7.4  18.9  17.6  17.1   77.4
Libray book                    0.0  30.9  25.8  23.7  20.9  19.3   120.7       0.0   3.    2.7   2.4   2.0   1.7    12.3
Vhicles andequipmeat           0.0  76.1  79.7  49.2  13.9   0.0   214.8       0.0   8.5   8.4   4.9   1.3   0.0    23.2
CoUsncy sevice and TA          2.4   3.2   3.5   3.7   2.5   0.1    15.4       0.3   0.4.  0.4   0.4   0.2   0.0        1.6
Traning                       14.0  13.0  12.5   0.0   0.0   0.0    39 5        t.6   1.4   1.3   0.0   0.0   0.0      4.4
Resach and developmet          2.2   4.8   3.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    10.1       0.3   0.5   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0        1.1
Subtotal                  91.0  199.0  194.8 264.5 221.3 208.8  1179.3    107   &    20.   26.6  21.2  18.9   120.0
Cl) Parallel Fna
Paperdnatd by Japan            4.4   4.3   4.3   9.0   9.1   8.4    39.4       0.5   0.5   0.5   0.9   0.9   0.8       4.0
(3) Govenmuent
Textbooks                      3.8   3.8   3.9  10.7  16.9  17.5   56.6        0.4   0.4  .0,4   1.1   1,6   1.6    5.6
Distibuton cots                8.1  11.1  10.5  23.2  23.1  23.4   99.3         1.0   LZ   11   2.3   2.2   2.1        9.9
Consutancy services and TA     0.2   0.3   0.3   0.5   0.6   0.0       1.8     0.0   0.    0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0       0.2
Traing                        21.0  11.5  12.5  10.9  20.3  23.9   100.1        2.5   1.3   1.3   1.1   1.9   2.2    10.3
Reseach and development        2.2   4.8   3.0   4.6   4.7   3.8   23.2        0.3   0.5   0,3   0.5   0.4   0.3       2.4
Monitoring and evaluation      1.8   2.0   2.2   2.4   2.6   2.9    13.8       0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3        1.4
subtotal                  37.1  33.6  32.4  52.3  68.0  71.5   294.8        4.3   3.7   3.4   5.3   6.5   6.5    29.7
Total cxcl. duties and taxes     132.4 236.8 231.4 325.8 298.4 288.7  1513.6    15.5  26.4  24.5  32.7  28.5  26.1   153.7
Duties an taxes                  2.6  11.7  10.8   9.8   5.7   4.2   44.7         0.3   1.3   1.1   1.0   0.5   0.4       4.7
Total finaed by govment         39.6  45.3  43.2  62.0  73.7  75.7   339   .6   W             4.6,   6 .2   7.0   6      34.4
Of wbich fiom RFR                   (4.9) (14.4) (33.8) (39.9) (40.9) (144.0)        (1.7)  (1.5)  (3.4)  (3.8)  (3.7)  (14.1)
Toul inl.duties and taxs         135.0 248.6 242.2 335.5 304.1 292.8  1558.3    15.8  2 7            33.7  29.1  26.4   158.4
Sources: DeUaled cos tables inAnns 3-1, 3-2. 3-4, 3-5 and 3-8.
mA-pVe  onD rfiVcpkw
(1) Ththk*                         PAmldlfman        M of [ 0.0mleqv;alet forpaw,
Gormen finbas 35  of koa coat incldig taffs on papr
IDA  Awnces * ote cats.
L;by bookd                       IDA fina  aU cogs. frei and loead.
(3) DW4btmz costs:b AM lcl co", finanedbygomnmn
(4) Vciclcsnd equpement           IDA fiam        all coat oth  thn tarflf, whb am born bygovrmncL
(3 Co_ntse mv.&TA: &Fo neixchanOg coams fibanced by MA sad koca coas financed by govmment
(6) Truhdng:                      lDA finaces all feign xchW  coss sad 40% of locd co  In Yean 1-3;
ovwnat finwace  00% oflcad os hi Yea 1-3 ad 100% n Year 4-6.
7 Rsarc & Devlcpmnent             AU la cos  finnced 50% by MDA and 50% bygovemnint il .'e"  1-3;
100S by govan nt hi Yeams 4-6.
(8) Mmultoru & EVaiMM             All lhca coss fianced by governmt



- 98 -                                               ANNEX 3-6
Page 4 of 5
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJF'T
FINANCING PLAN BY LOCAL AND FOREIGN EXPENDITURES
(million Naira) -(-S$-mitlion --- ---lo ) --
Local--   - Foreign ---  --Totl                 Loa! --- Foreign-Total ----
AWnL  %Total   Amt. %Total    Amt. %Total   Amt. %Toftl   Amt. %Total   AmL  %Total
(1) DA
Textbooks                     143.2   27.6%   631.8   63.5%    7. .9   51.2%    14.2   26.9%    63.2   62.5%    77.4   50.4%
lbsy  books                    18.4    3.5%   102.3   10.3%    120.7    8.0%     1.9    3.5%    10.4   10.3%    12.3    8.0%
Vebicles and equipment         22.0    4.2%   196.S   19.8%   218.8   14.5%     2.3    4.4%    20.8   20.6%    23.2   15.1%
ConsultancyservicesandTA       0.0    0.0%    15.4    1.5%    15.4    1.0%    0.0    0.0%        1.6    1.6%     1.6    1.1%
Training                       30.0    5.8%     9.5    1.0%    39.5    2.6%      3.4    6.4%     1.0    1.0%    4.4    2.9%
Resurchanddevelopment          10.1    1.9%    0.0    0.0%      10.1    0.7%     t.1    2.1%     0.0    0.0%     1.1    0.7%
Subtoen                  223.6   43.1%  955.7   96.0%   1179.3   77.9%   22.8   43.5%    97.2   96.1%   120.0   78.1%
(2) Parallol Fincing
Papet POD cost                  0.0    0.0%    39.4    4.0%    39.4    2.6%     0       0.0%    4.0    3.9%    4.0    2.6%
(3) ovenmeont
Textbooks                      56.6   10.9%    0.0    0.0%     56.6    3.7%     5.6   10.6%     0.0    0.0%      5.6    3.6%
Ditibuton cos                  99.3   19.2%     0.0    0.0%    99.3    6.6%     9.9   18.9%      0.0    0.0%     9.9    6.5%
C4nsultaneyscrvices andTA       1.8    0.4%     0.0    0.0%      1.8    0.1%    0.2    0.4%      0.0    0.0%     0.2    0.1%
Training                      100.1   19.3%     0.0    0.0%    100.1    6.6%    10.3   19.5%    0.0    0.0%    10.3    6.7%
Rsearch and development        23.2    4.5%    0.0    0.0%     23.2    1.5%     2.4    4.5%     0.0    0.0%      2.4    1.5%
Monitoring and ovaluation      13.8    2.7%     0.0    0.0%     13.8    0.9%    IA      2.7%    0.0    0.0%      1.4    0.9%
Subtow                   294.8   56.9%    0.0    0.0%    294.8   19.S%    29.7   56.5%      0.0    0.0%    29.7   19.3%
Total excl. duties and taxes      518.4  100.0%   995.1  100.0%   1513.6  100.0%    52.6  100.0%   101.1  100.0%   153.7  100.0%
Duties and taxes                 44.7             0.0             44.7             4.7             0.0             4.7
Total financed by governent     339.6             0.0            339.6            34.4             0.0            34.4
Total incl. duties and taxes      563.2           995.1           1558.3            57.2           101.1           158.4
Soures:   Detailed cost tables in Annexes 3-1, 3-2, 3-4, 3-5 and 3-8.



NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS, BY YEAR AND BY LOCAL AND FOREIGN COSTS <a
(in millions of Nalta)
-      1991- ----- ----- 1992-1993 …                       -        --- 1994--             ---          1996-96--
Lacal Foign  Totl Local Foreip  Total Local Foreip Total Local Foreip Total Local Poreign Total Local Foeign Totl Lccal Foreigp  To
(1) Textboob                           13.0   55.3  68.3  11.6   49.2  60.8  10.4  44.3  j4.7  25.0  106.2 131.2  32.4   V7.9 120.3  30.2   Sl.1  111.9 122.7  424.6  547.3
(2) Library books                       0.0    0.0   0.0  3IS   20.0  23.8   2.0   16.0  13.0   2.0   13.0  15.0   2.0   10.0  12.0   2.0    8.0  10.0  11.3   67.0   73.8
(3) Distbution costs                    6.3    0.0   6.3   8.S    0.0   8.5   7.3    0.0   7.3   1.6    0.0  14.6  13.2   0.0  13.2  12.2    0.0  12.2  62.6    0.0   62.6
(4) Veblcs ad equIpment                 0.0    0.0   0.0   5.9   52.7  53.6   5.6   50.0  55.6   3.1   23.0  31.1   0.8    7.2   7.9   0.0    0.0   0.0  15.3  137.9  153.2
(5) Con     cyltaWy esvlec&TA           0.1    2.0   2.2   0.2    2.5   2.7   0.2    2.4   2.6   0.3    2.3   2.6   0.3    1.4   1.3   0.0    0.0   0.1   1.2   10.7   12.0
(6) Traing                             29.4    0.0  29.4  14.7    4.1  18.3  14.4    2.9  17.3   6.9    0.0   6.9  11.6    0.0  11.6  12.5    0.0  12.5  89.5    7.0   96.S
(7) Research and developmt              3.7    0.0   3.7   7.4    0.0   7.4   4.2    0.0   4.2   2.9    0.0   2.9   2.7    0.0   2.7   2.0    0.0   2.0  22.9    0.0   22.9
Monitoringlevaluation oper. cost       1.5    0.0   1.5   1.5    0.0   1.5   1.5   0.0   1.5   1.5    0.0   1.5   I.S    0.0   1.5   1.5    0.0   1.5   9.0    0.0    9.0
Total Base Cost <b             54.6   57.3 112.0  53.5  1285 182.0  45.6  115.7 161.3  56.4  149.4 205.3  64.6  106.5 171.1  60.3   89.3  150.1 335.0  641.2  932.2
Physical cocbgencs              2.1    2.9   5.6   2.7    6.4   9.1   2.3    5.8   S.1   2.3    7.5  10.3   3.2    5.3   8.6   3.0    4.5   7.5  16.8   32.4   49.1              1
Price contingenies              7.7    7.2  14.9  13.9   31.3  45.7  17.3  44.3  62.1  30.2   79.5  109.7  44.8   74.1  113.3  52.3   78.3  131.1 166.7  315.6  482.2
Dut108ncdT*ras                  2.6    0.0   2.6  11.7    0.0  11.7  10.8   0.0  10.8   9.8    0.0   9.8   S.7   0.0   5.7   4.2    0.0   4.2  44.7    0.0   44.7                l
Totl Cost <c             67.6   67A  135.0  S1.9  166.7 24S.6  76.5  165.7 242.2  99.1  236.4 335.5  113.3  ISS.9 304.1  119.8  173.0 292.3 563.2  993.1  1558.3
oss MIrN BQUZY
(1) Textbo                          1.6   6.9   8.5   1.5    6.2   7.6   1.3    5.5   6.8   3.1   13.3  16.4   4.1   11.0  1S.0   3.S  1t02  14.0  1S.3   53.1   68A
(2) Libtsay boos                   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.5    2.5   3.0   0.3    2.0   2.3   0.3    1.6   1.9   0.3    1.3   1.5   0.3    1.0   1.3   1.    S4    9.9
(3) Distbtoncosca                  0.9    0.0   0.9   1.1    0.0   1.1   0.9    0.0   0.9   L.8    0.0   L.8   1.7    0.0   1.7   1.5    0.0   1.5   7S3    0.0    7.S
(4) VehIcles and eqaited           0.0    0.0   0.0   0.7    6.6   7.3   0.7    6.3   6.9   0.4    3.5   3.9   0.1    0.9   1.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   1.9   17.2   19.1
(5) Cooutany scrvlces& TA          0.0    0.3   0.3   0.0    0.3   0.3   0.0    0.3   0.3   0.0    0.3   0.3   0.0    0.2   0.2   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.2    1.3    I.S
(6) Trainng                         3.7    0.0   3.7   1.8    0.5   2.3   1.8  O    2.2   0.9    0.0   0.9   1.5    0.0   LS   1.6    0.0   1.6  11.2    0.9   12.1
(7) Reawt and dovelopant           0.5    0.0   0.5   0.9    0.0   0.9   O.S   0.0   0.5   0.4    0.0   0.4   0.3    0.0   0.3   0.3    0.0   0.3   2.9    0.0    2.9
(8) Monitorlngeval. *per. cos      0.2    0.0   0.2   0.2    0.0   0.2   0.2    0.0   0.2   0.2    0.0   0.2   0.2    0.0   0.2   0.2    0.0   0.2   1.1    0.0    1.1
Total BaseCost<t          6.8    7.2  14.0   6.7   16.1  22.8   5.7   14.5  20.2   7.0   18.7  25.7   8.1   13.3  21.4   7.5   11.2  Is.8  419   80.9  122.8
Piysical Cont.            0.3   OR    0.7   0.3    0.8   1.1   0.3    0.7   1.0   0.4    0.9   1.3   0.4    0.7   1.1   0.4    0.6   0.9   2.1    4.0    6.1
Prce Coot.                0.5    0.4   0.8   0.8    1.7   2.5   1.0    2.4   3.3   1.6    4.1   5.7   2.3    3.8   6.1   2.S    3.8   6.4   8.6   16.2   24.8    t'd
Duties,Taxes              0.3    0.0   0.3   1.3    0.0   1.3   1.1    0.0   1.1   1.0    0.0   1.0   0.5    0,0   0.5   0.4    0.0   0.4   4.7    0.0    4.7          q
TotalCodt c               7.9    7.9  15.8   9.1   18.6  27.7   8.1   17.5  25.6  10.0   23.8  33.7  11.3   17.8  29.1  10.8   15.6  26.4  57.2  101.1  158.4
4a Totals may not add duc to rounding.                   <b Excluding duties and taxes.                <c Including duties and taxes.



- 100 -                                                  ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMAY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED tIPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-1990-   -191-  -1992-  -1993-   -1994-   -199-  -199-  197
PbashOCompm        ntI_is   1 2  3  4   1 2  3 4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2
Aotion Reqwr.d   Roosblo    aMU                           .            J             J 
APFRAMML
Wosd lank mjs    WS/l?N4ClF ?
appibnmisdato
N*&
World lank ppuowu  WS
goods omaxto gout
for vlwprdic to
,ugoldiad
Gout    paa-  NPECFIM            a
nactktowoactons
NEBOOAONS
Govt,0a aaodion FMFEDII             a
to= to WaIdD&WR   NP£CMOB
WMdd Bonk p qua    WI               xx xx
fimipood 49tudoua
Gottoloornp.- NPSCFME               xx xx
BoaN ,dom
APPROVAL
Got (C Of ninuaaM)  tAEFMFI Y          m   x
a Wodd Book loud)  MJuuaW
appuoupt*u       comma
aguainmnu ss-
BFFBCflVENS
Gout copla pm-   NEC/FMEl                  x
_          :dowmw  FWgUM
WoAld BOn dedam
SUPERVON
Woddolkn es      WI                           x      x      x     x       x     x       x     x       x     x       x     x    x
iupurisn om  Cc                                  x       x     x       x        x             x             x
to uovwptoj
sen-aud _vo    NPEOWB                             x       x     x                     xxxxxxxxx
Mid-trntaviW     WBINPSC                                                              x
Ropod a0) 



- 101-                                                    ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-1990-  -1991-   -19-   -1993-   -1994--  --1995---  --1996---  1997
Phamc/Compon,t   ldutations   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1 2
Action Roquired   Responsbe  asaw  s oxm u .   am am an      sw mJuao C InID mu as canD   mi up Js  OI. Imm        Jim Aw js  Om a   a, Am.
1. IMOVRESOUR(1
ALLOCAkTION
Federal Oot buds   FME/NPEC/            x             x              x             a             x             x             x
u1ocatio to *2 NPEN  FMFaD
it fouowiag nid yat
S9t sbmi to NP6C NPECISMOEa       x
s Wol Bank Cone  WB
fsad     tor ,ti
eojumomi pamIt,
NPECrsbmits to Wobd N4ECIPSMB     a
U apaoto4doi  UELOh'
tsapombiUly tor   WB
Abo   d iEbm y
bock prowvion o
P8MB.s at  EA
NPECsumitowoo   fCIFM/            x
Bk diled "pn for WB
Revolving Fund fot
Tatbook Rk
(tFM). itwtgal
codr-Oecove y sm
NP&Cs    toWo NrwaPCFM/           a
B Pankpa to dfca   FMAED
Indusoimi wdnin-   Some/fLOAm
tenana of aou-.tauia
gaI sad LAM budget
Stste sAt LGAa   NPRC/PME/ 
edabilimab teur   paGE
budgi am for     States/WAS
tt-
Rawx



- 102 -                                                        ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
--1990--          199         --1992---    --1993---    --1 4--    --1995--    ---1996---    1997
Pbase/Compoe        Insitutions    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Action Requitrd    Respon0ble  a"wmi jaa oxo  im mu jad cv .m  Jam  owa   cm  sx a            w  m " as am   a" mu JAs OND  .m  mx JS  05D .  mu
a. ImsRUCInONAL
MAMWJ
NPEC nouf  PSMBs NPECPPSMBd xxx is
nd LOEAa to ptovide LOEA
(a) stoag SWt --xrity
In srbools and a
LGEAs. mgu (b) ocaittnl
library facilties
Provid libm,o afili-  NPECALAs 
tItinG60% of LGEAs
Simpl cck (I %) on  NPEC                               xxx
torage provision in
Provid  bom-tea    NPEWPSUBI                               x
storage fot tratoors  LAEAs
In LOEAs and tramit
sor  fr laay
books In PSMBS
Coatplsall LOEA    NPEC/LGEAs                                      x
iibay ailixies
Obtalnn Panet
for TextbookB
Decion on         PFEWFMFED/            x
acquisition of Pae    WWC
though ethe grst
aid or lC  by fdaui
govent with btde
Cooime ptoe  to  NPECIFME                   xx  mxxx m    xxx mWm   mm   m            xxx  mxm xxmM WM xxM xx     xxxmm xxx  xxx       xxx
quir paper for tan-
books in qaaastfie
and Pureet
Elgtaon pat       NPECIWB           x
submits criteria to
WB fotapptovel
NPEChnvviSpubiSf   NPEC                x
.o suai  boots for
ahatio n e
Evaluaion paFnt revie  NPEC             mx
books opikes    of
thbe etng       i appoved
criteri   t NW nds It
to PSMB
LGEs sW PSMDI    NPECSMUR  
sola books frm is   LGEA
t_booee by
eaflutio  - sri
sbmilt Hasto NPEC
NPEC pt collate  NPBC/                     x
lists of           publibs
books to pubilar
an lufit bids



- 103 -                                                       ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1990---  i---1991--          1992---    -199-            -1994---       ---1995---          ---1996---    1997
Pbuc/Copca    Insgtut              1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Action RcqWud   Reapoble  a WM   amS c               am JAS OID  a. am asJUs     a    S C        JW  JAS. C  M JM JaS OMD  an amJ aW ous JmmA
Textbo*ook daion
& EM (coWdl
Boak ptoum    sy-fME/PECI    m          X
A wwa tcmti$ wc
OMcotrc dmwn UV
PubU  ts 4uo Publilsu 
tuioa$ for Pdmuy I   NPEC
oalbooks sod libwy
books to NPEC
Req%" pubUiih,     NPIW                                       a
cwaZntaftotPenaZs   Poubgh.
2 and)3 Lubooks and
Uibftay bocks
Raquo p&isheW      NPECI                                                      x
fimu tor Pdwy PubFish
4 to6 abooksand
Ubty books
Rct pubie    NPECI                                                                           x
edin3ltsfo tqplsce-  PubasWI
t of Pdinmy I
textbook and lbrmy
books
Request pubishot   NPECt                                                                                    x
<ximmtfor ca-  Pubin
t ef Pdiiuy 2-3
textboos and bmy
books
Requt publisbaW    NPCI                                                                                                    x
_ _fnu. too tpie-  Pubilhbm
mota for Pdnmu 4-6
textbooks and libtay
books
Review publstma    NPECtC                      xxx                            xx             xx             xx             x              U
estbish  by
Estenl pper        NPECIC                              x               x                     x              x               x
asmso' edmumA
SipWbookwoppycon- NECJ                            x              x              x                             x              x
£atnwepb  -                                                                                                               I   __



- 104 -                                                     ANNEX 3-7
Page 5 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-1990-   --1991-   -1992--  -1993---   -19                                -            -1996--  1997
PhawlCompcnmn    ItUtion         1  2 3  4    1 2 3  4   1  2  3  4    1 2  3  4    1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Aotion Requimd    Rspovsble  W M JS . AU  JY ill W     C          MS  CUD J        8CD Jilml MV W   COID 1116 JMS   CD Dmlla305  iJma
DIatdbuUaa of
Tcxibooks a
Desgn dis o       NFELWEA                        max
syau to t cub LGEA
DcEAvs Ptwmy I    N        tECIPSMfl                   xxx                                              x
u tbookstoLGEAs   LGEA&
Iibmzy books to PSMB Dsazbatou
D&ivetPriy2-3  NMP ESM&                                                    x                                           x
texbooks to LG:As   Digzbuou
libtay books to PSMB
Delier PAmay 4-6   NPsECJSM/                                                             x                                           x
tetbooks to LGEAc   Dl_o
libaty boots to PSMBI
V-ty q umi and   NlEC  (31 U)xxx xmx                                                                    xx             xx            xx
spedqfud. of      LGEAs
books d&fvacad
Moaltodai sno
Iwvahtlom of
NPEC s Elioamlad d NCIC               x
Monitong Dept
"&- book
p      bttmmvn
Design otiadsen    NPEC                        x
CdiCaitoh idrmltllW
fot rdcoogmtCS
Esh atboo    NKMC                                   x
ma oai uk CMU)
in NPEC
Mondorlng and altk- NP8C                                           x      x              x             x                     x           x
tiof of



- 105-                                          ANNEX 3-7
Page 6 of 11
NIGERIA - PRtMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOIDATED IMPLEMETATION SCHEDULE
-1990--  -1991-  - -  -1993--                              -1 994       1       
PFaslConpcnt   Iugl        1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1    3 4   1                  2 3 4   1 2
Action Required   Ruapoalle  nn i ean m i am -n    o aa         mi ea    a  my "ao in mu Mi 45   li Ju AN  am O m w
U. SYAFFARADNN
Toiwove0jnDlm
pa,amt UIndus
BcOO" & Matu=I
DzvddptWna NPECJFMaI
pmwtotedvam1.   smoap
oi   W         L3EA
abaft uor to MM
totb approval
Douiopaudr     NMCIPMW           mm  mm
ts  dnbuaiw  SMOEI/C
_                                    mm
bMd tot in geot   MSW8
mubhgo bssi W  N Id                           mm mm mm mmmm  mmxm
ci,&ct*ma ot  L~AiVV
or------  AO
Tzil ooaoo 4Sf/SMa                           mm mm mm mm mm  xxmm mmmm mmmm mmxm
or lclpwiVC
toadfteadinhadt
Delp prcdoao     . PCPE 



- 106 -                                                      ANNEX 3-7
Page 7 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-1990---  -1991- -1992----1993--  -1994-- -1995---1996 -   1997
PhaselComponol    Inattions    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Action Requitd    R-ponsble  31 MU JAB OM  JM AM  JAB CD  31 MU JB OM  JF1MU JAB CND JM RA  JAB OM            MU JB OM  JM AW JAB MUD 311A
m.  AGEMERNT
U)INFOMATON
sysIFM (MIS)
ProcrecoeuImIs    NPEC                             m u: Wm  m= zu XYI
Pronxovebildem al   NPEC                                      mmXX W XXm   Mm WM   m 
Sub,mit to WoM Emik  NPEC/WB        x
for approva deowl
pliman onVWp of dmat
to be colleled and
frequaly etdrAt
collccon
CoatraE Viytnam    NPECJWWC                    a
ankLya to ddoirmne
Tzuling in corepto   NPEC                                      =mmE3 mmX  mm 3 m3
opeuona. itaddide
for edutatiotul
p-nm -Ilw
Coetmot for ninltta-  NPEC                            mm m=xx
anOMand $*Meov of
*orepa. systems
conledt data front  NPECPSM130                       mx             m=             mx             mx             m              xxx
sebcitol           WGEA
Compile sM amlywa   NPECPSIl                          X  XXXX= 3   X    XXI          =Z   XXX mmX mm    mm  mmX mmXmmWM XX m M M =M   mm XXMM
Write repo"       NP2C                                   Wm            m=             m=             mx              mm
Pubildi ,epozs   1NPEC                                        mW            m=             mx             mx             m              xx



- 107 -                                                       ANNEX 3-7
Page 8 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-1990---       -1991-         -t992--    --1993-            -1994--        -1995---    --1996             1997
PbasaCoiipoent        ialtuUins    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Actioa Requidtd   Respmle  aiu J                       as ot                     awn au oIwn ma, aSI.? Jag own  an . an   i a own " am    it au jag ow  jam
IV. RBSMCRC
Submit dctsa pua    N tCWBB
to Woald Badt for
intUhfl 0u on IW.
Covbsam.tor    g   NPWC                              xX m   xxlt xxx m m    m xxx xxx xxx
gansdaid lmnof
infuoruxiwn
Conduct ruc ot  NPEC                                          xxi x tx  lLm    x =ct xxx xxx xx  mxt  x MM  m x x=xx
mwa wemoufem in
adimlion
Conduc eoszcb an   NPW C                                            xxx mxx   xxx mm
wombing in"Ws obom
tong-m
Condwc meucro ant   NPEC                                      IM 3xx 3x XXX
tbsf(cct of dae ompa
onthia marato
Conduct rsuch on   NPEC                                                           mxxi xxx  mm
.lostiyo modls oto
oowmln*jy libruts
Conduct losMatc on   NPEC                              mmXXXMZE X  =3   XXZ   X    X mm  mm mmmxx    m3x   X= mm      X=   mm  mmE MM      m xx
of primuy     rVon
Condus achool mappi NPEC                              3 m 3       m 3   =3M
PCoeu norumh for   NPEC                                                                 3m
pmivcfy aduoaio
*~~~~~~ aNE x axxaxxxxxxxmxxmxxma  smxo  a x x x z



- 108 -                                                           ANNEX 3-7
Page 9 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
--1990-  -1991-   --1992--  -193-   --1994---  -- 199-                                              ---1996--  1
PhasCompon           Inituions    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Action Requizd    Responsible  Hm mu -W  MP  if"             au m as C X mu JA MD   Am   JS OmP  4tH U i u am        l  £4 JS CD am   au  4Ja onD  4  mu
V. MONJTtrIN AND
EVALUATION
Chck aot'. amcfty NPEC            x        x xx                                          xxx xx                           xxx             Six
at sbodol an LGEA
Prepse i;.vo        NPEC               x
tot projet impau
LGEA Lev
Pro" and produm   NPEC                            xxx
moioiing aSW evata-
taiOf l rcras for
e - tonmpcao
Prs*anda pilot      NPEC                          xxx
bas of comagable
sohefvomm  to" tot
Primzy 3 and S
A    progr  of    NPEC                                              xxx                           xxx xxx
trining program fot
Itcm1 bod_,chs
and anprar
A/u pcrfonm   of NPEC                                                             xxx xxx xx xxx  xxx xJx xxx xx
aduainitazoam aid
nmtug= am the
dram of tbnir
Aimiyzacdumtiand    NPEC                 mx              mx              xxx              mx              XX              im              mx
ua*miiture and silo-
ration for samiaric ati
Aaseca, q.anLity and    NPEC                 mx        x  x  x  X      x xxx mm    m   mm   WmWm  mmx    mm xxxx xxx m    mm  m= mx  x     xxx mx mm    mx  x
qraliy of dat, dat
aalydya and the timsl-
-m of data reporting
K.view and "Om      NPEC                          m=              mm               x              xxx              m               xxx            Nm
-i- and Vale
anom rollimg Plane
and nandlot inni
impleouatical
4moitot ptontram.  NPEC                                mm  mxxx    mm  mmxxx    mm  mmXXX   m m   mxum    mmX Km  m    m  mm  mXXX   m=X
onMC nandmiinteo of
Prepare ad stbtit to  NPEC                                        xxx              mx             mx              mx               mx              mu
rports on the
ptotas of Pt
Azdanier  =ampl   NPEC                                            xxx                                             xxx                     xxx
estin       tis fax
Nuesry 3 amd S



- 109 -                                                       ANNEX 3-7
Page 10 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-1990-   -1991-   --1992-   -1993--   -1994-   --1995-   -1996-   1997
Phasc/Compouce    toituio          1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Action Requittd    Responsible  ~imaisaae JBolD3WUJJBCD3WM  A  U   1  M  A  U   1  M  A  U   1  2  A  U   1 1343 J i uaBa   imD am
VI. INSITrUlN
uIILDING
NPEC posm Nd PEC                     x
planfortilagof
adminigatv..
lannuing mud
TanWing of LGEA    NPECaLGEAx                   mIX
gedottot
adrnlleaU or
Tnining of Pas     NPECiPSMB.                   xx xi  xx
acoormtitg Stff
Tang ot  EA        PSMBJLGEAs                                   m  mm xxx  xix m  xxx m
o Sing att by
F3MB at
Foden study        NPEC                               .               m.
fllowships tor NPEC
kias. tsm9
propt muosantt and
Fotean  dy         FbE                                    xxx                 m
felowships tot FME
tff In puinmy
pro-mmr-t
Pr _e am ens  NPEPIU                 x
to the Wodd Bank
proodure to PI
-rntdtflingthe
funtiowi tohp
h t NPEC sad PIU
Reruit procurent   WBINPECtPIU                     xxx
sptalie to take
cearg of promnt
under the projni
Romut ouerput    NPEBCPIU                          x
pwWrot frira t
PIU
Traincountspn      NPECIPIU                        xx m mxxx xxx  xxx xxx m    xxx xxx mm xm     m xox xx xxx m   m   mI m  m   xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx
proo¢nWm* aorto at
PIU
Prowure vl    and   NPEBI                          3 x xmm
officeeqplws at
b-imd le
instuinice
Prvocu vetla sa    NPECIPSMBs                                 xm xxm  m   xxx
dtso quwnat
am and L3A lvel



- 110 -                                                         ANNEX 3-7
Page 11 of 11
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
-1990-    -1991-   --199-  -1993--   -1994-   --1995--   --1996---  1997
PhaselCompoel    ItUions    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2
Actbn Required    Responsible  Jm &aTas UD  in mu JB  n  iWn  Ja  CD am I £14 Jmy   CD  JSlE              s JB CID 3v   £43 JaS C    17 £3 JJa CIID  3t mu
VII MEDIA CAMPAIGN
Produu id diribue  NPEC          X= ix xxx xxx  xxx xx 3= zL    m xxm   xxx ix                         xx x xxx xxx  xxx xxx xxx xxx  xxx Xxx   xxx  xxx xi x     Xx   Kxx
NPEC   Iicins
(     mx, bulltd.
Pogo"S. etc)
DevcIop &d picat   FMENPEC           xxx xxx        xxx m I xxx  xix xxx ii xi    o xxx xxx xxx xxx  Xm  xxx lxx   xix  xxx xxx  xxc x    sxxxmx    xxx xxx
dom=-wy jadio ad
tcevlousi progumm
Promoioowl viu by   FMEINPECJ            mm xxx  m xxx xxx X            m   m  xxx  xxxm xxx xx x  mxxx xx          xxx xxx  xxx ax m x x    xx   xxx  xm
eaff in NPEC, PEU.  PSMBhILGEAv/
PSMBS. LGEAS. DEC. DECPIVEC*
VECS
Procurm  of        NPECIWB                           xxx
audio-vi£t cquipmnes
(c=amo". VCRs.
projerOta. etc.)
Pro curamai .f vehla NPECOWB     =                                            _



ANNEX 3-8
- 1ll -                        Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
Introduction
1.    The Primary Education Project will be implemented by the National
Primary Education Commission (NPEC) whose Executive Secretary is directly
responsible to the Federal Minister of Education. The Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) of the Federal Ministry of Education will be responsible for
procurement under the project. In this the unit will work in close liaison
with the NPEC according to a pre-agreed procurement schedule.
2.    The pro urement specialist financed from the proceeds of the IDA credit
will be located in the PIU. He/she will work for and be responsible to the
Assistant Director of Education, PIU, and will be given assignments related to
his field of expertise, so as to expedite procurement under the project and
facilitate the training of and transfer of experience to local staff.
Duties
3.    The procurement specialist's prime responsibilities will be:
a.    tender and contract documentation;
b.    effecting procurement procedure and processing;
C.    implementation control and monitoring of contracts; and
d.    training of and transfer of experience to local staff.
4.    Specifically, the procurement specialist's duties will be those listed
below but not limited to:
a.    Establish effective monitoring and control systems for
procurement.
b.    Participate in the actual procurement process and logistics.
c.    Review the documents used for the procurement of goods, services
and consultancy services through local and international
shortlisting and competitive bidding and, if necessary, recommend
modifications to the same.
d.    Participate in the selection of consultants, prequalification,
evaluation of tenders, contracts negotiations and contracts ward
recommendations.
e.    Develop and conduct training programs as required.
Qualifications
5.    Should be experienced and a professional in materials management with
extensive experience (10 to 15 years) in procurement of goods and services.
Length of Contract
6.    Thirty-six (36) months with possible extension of at least twenty-four
(24) more months.



112                         ANNEX 3-8
Page 2 of 4
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR NIGERIAN COUNTERPART PROCUREMENT OFFICERS
Introduction
7.          The Nigerian counterpart procurement officers financed from the
proceeds of the IDA credit will be located in the PIU. They will work for and
be responsible to the Procurement Specialist who will train them in the
procurement of goods and services under the project.
Duties
8.          Under the general guidance of the procurement specialist the
procurement officer will be trained to:
a.    review requests for equipment, goods and services;
b.    prepare specifications and bidding packages consistent with the
requirements of lending agencies for (i) limited international
bidding, (ii) local competitive bidding, and (iii) international
competitive bidding;
c.    evaluate bids;
d.    make recommendations to the Federal Ministry of Education for the
award of contracts;
e.    prepare tax exemption certificates;
f.    arrange for pre-inspection of goods to be imported;
g.    supervise logistics for various institutions;
h.    assist with port clearance;
i.    ensure that the recipient institutions receive their requirements;
and
j.    liaise with the appropriate officers in recipient institutions to
determine the condition of the goods on arrival at the project
site.
Qualifications
9.          Applicants for the post of counterpart procurement officer should
possess the following quaiifications and experience:
a.    university degree,
b.    familiarity with public procurement procedures in a government or
public undertaking,
c.    three years experience in procurement operations preferred,
d.    knowledge of contract practices -- Nigerian experience preferred,
and
e.    good writing and communication skills in English.



113 -                    ANNEX 3-8
-113-                       Page 3 of 4
TEXTBOOK COMPONENT CONSULTANCIES
Introduction
1.    The major thrust of the Nigeria Primary Education Project is the urgent
provision of textbooks and supplementary materials, supported by staff
training, aimed at improving the quality of teaching and learning in schools.
The schedule for book provision is very tight and the processes complex.
Outline terms of reference of consultancies required to facilitate the smooth
execution of this component are detailed below.
Consultancies required before proiect effectiveness
2.          Three consultancies as set out below will be required prior to
credit effectiveness. NPEC will be responsible for in-country expenses while
the Association will finance fees and international travel.
3.   Consultancy visit to provide expert supervision of the paper purchasing
and the distributionisales of stocks to commercial publishers.
Specifically, basing his judgement on the number and extent of books to
be produced, the expert will assess the quantities of paper required for
the project. He will draw up detailed specifications of the type, size
and quantity to be procured on an annual basis; if required he will
draft procurement documents and advise on the procurement and sales
processes.
Length: 1 person-week in country plus 1 person-week report-writing.
4.    Book procurement consultancy to design procurement documents in
consultation with NPEC and the Association.
Len th: 1 person-week drafting documents, 1 person-week discussion and
report-writing.
5.    Textbook production expert to give benchmark estimate of textbook price.
Length: 1 person-week.
Consultancies required during project
6.    Two consultancies to design and assist implement a study to evaluate the
effectiveness of textbook and supplementary materials provision and
distribution systems set up under the Project, book life, storage and
patterns of use in schools, during and after the project life.
Lenath: 10 person-weeks in country plus 5 person-weeks
preparation/report-writing.
7.    Monitoring by expert consultants of the textbook and supplementary
materials components throughout the Project.
Length: 8 person-weeks in country plus 4 person-weeks report-writing.



ANNEX 3-8
- 114 -                      Page 4 of 4
8.    Consultancy visits and in country training for NPEC and State Education
Authority staff to design and implement the supplementary
materials/Local Education Authority school library provision component,
including advice on the selection of recormended materials, the design
of school library buildings, the training of para-professionals and
monitoring staff.
Length; 4 person-.zeks in country plus 2 person-weeks report-writing.
9.    Consultancy visits in course design and teacher training materials
writing in the care of books and use of new supplementary materials
provided under the Project; and in-country trainlng courses to train key
teacher trainers in the running of pre- and in-service courses.
Length: 8 person-weeks in country plus 4 person weels preparation and
report-writing.
Consultancy Time Schedule
CONSULTANCY         Yeor 1991      1992     1993     1994     1996     1996
TITLE              qtr 1 2a4   1 2 3 4   1 284   1 2 3 4   1 2 8 4   1 2a4
1. Evaluation Study        x        x         x        x        x
2. Monitoring                 xx       xx       x        x        x         x
8. Supplementary              xx
Materials
4. Teacher Education          xx
Total steat weeks,
By Year           24       a        4.5      4.5      4.5       1.6



NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS OF CONSULTANCY SERVICES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(n millions of Nait)
------- 1991  --992----   ----   ---- -   ----                                      1995 …-         --- 996--…1991-9S-----
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreig  Total Local Potigp  Total Local Porcgn Total Local Foreign Tota
(1) For book componet <a
(a) Evaluationdudy               0.011  0.096 0.107 0.011  0.096 0A07 0.011  0.096 0.107 0.011  0.096 0.107 0.011  0.096 0.107 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.056  0.480  0.536
(b) Montoing                     0.011  0.0 2 0.093 0.011  0.02 0.093 0.006  0.048 0.054 0.006  0.048 0.054 0.006  0.048 0.114 0.006  0.048 0.054 0.045  0.355  0.400
(c) Supplenentary matials        0.022  0.163 0.186 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.022  0.163  0.18l
(d) Tebachr ecduation            0.045  0.326 0.371 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.045  0.326  0371
Subtotal                0.090  0.667 0.757 0.022  0.178 0.200 0.017  0.144 0.161 0.017  0.144 0.161 0.017  0.144 0.161 0.006  0.048 0.054 0.1s8  1.325  1.493
(2) Proewnt coaultant                0.060  0.500 0.560 0.200  1.400 1.600 0.200  1.400 1.600 0.300  1.300 1.600 0.300  t.300  I.r"  0.000  0.000 0.000  1.060  5.900  6.960
(3) For monltotinglevaluation
and other items                 0.000  0.880 0.880 0.000  0.8E0 0.880 0.000  0.88E0 0.80 0.000  O.8   0.8S 0 0.oo0  0.000 0.000 0.000  0.000 0.000o 0.000  3.520  3.520
TotalBa  Cosa                0.150  2.047 2.197 0.222  2.458 2.680 0.217  2.424 2.641 0.317  2.324 2.641 0.317  1.444  1.761 0.006  0.A4S 0.054 1.228 10.745 11.973
Physical conangcies          O.OC7  0.102 0.110 0.011  0.123 0.134 0.011  0.121 0.132 0.016  0.116 0.132  .016  0.072 0.088 0.000  0.002 0,003 0.061  0.S37  0.59
rico contingenceic           0.021  0.256 0.277 0.056  0.608 0.666 0.065  0.928 1.013 0.169  1.237 1.406 0.220  1.004 1.224 0.005  0.042 0.047 0.557  4.075  4.633
Total Costa             0.178  2.406 2.584 0.291  3.189 3.480 0.312  3.473 3.786 0.502  3.677 4.179 0.552  2.320 3.073 0.011  0.092 0.103  1.847 15.357 17.204
USSMLN EQUIV: Bs Cost            0.019  0.256 0.275 0.028  0307 0.335 0.027  0.303 0.330 0.040  0.291 0.330 0.040  0.1I 0.220 0.001  0.006 0.007 0.154  1.343  1.497
PbysialcatCo.    0.001  0.013 0.014 0.001  0.015 0.017 0.001  0.015 0.017 0.002  0.015 0.017 0.002  0.009 0.011 0.000  0.000 0.000 0.008  0.067  0.075
Price Cont       0.001  0.013 0.015 0.003  0.033 0.036 0.005  0.049 0.054 0.009  0.065 0.073 0.011  0.051 0.063 0.00D  0.002 0.002 0.029  0.213  0.243
Toal Cost        0.021  0Q282 0Q303 Q032  0Q355 0.s38  0.033  0 367 0t401 0.0  0Q370 0420 0.053  0 241 0Q294 0.001  o.o00  0.009 0 191  1.623  1.S14
<a  Ihc estimated coss of eonsulawy srvices and technical assistance for the book component are baed on the following *chdulc:
1------- 991 ----         1992 -       ------1°93 - ------- -    1- 1994…--------   1995^-------  --------19     9 -------  -------1991-96 -------
Total  Wooks  No.of  Toal  Wooks No.of  Tt.l W'ok  No.of  Toel  Wooks No.of  Total  Wook  No.of  Tol  Wooks No.ct  Toal  Woke  No.of
W'ok  In Fied  Tdp Wkook ia FWd  Tn-  Weoka I          n Field T's Fooks in Feld  Trp, Wcek   Fied  Traoed,   Field  Tri-
(a)   Evaluation study           3      2     2     3      2      2     3      2     2     3      2     2      3      2     2                        15    10    10
(b)  Monitoring                  3      2     1     3      2      1   1.5      I     1   1.5      1      1   1.      I     1   1.5      1     I    12      a      6
(c)  Supplemcntary materials     6      4     2                                                                                                      6      4      2      >
(d)  Teacher education          12      8     4                                                                                                      12     8      4
and the following assumptions on unit coets:          tJSS   Naim
(a) Rournd-trip air fare             I800  144C0                                                                                                              D 
(b) Subsistencelday                   100    S00                                                                                                                
(c) Consultant fee/day                4C0   3200



- 116 -                                        ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of I
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
EFFECT ON RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
1. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURE UNDER THE PROJECT (millions of current Nalra)
Item                   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999  2000
(1) Textbooks                  83.1   81.3  80.6  212.5  214.4  219.5  293.9  311.2  333.6  504.6
(2) Library books               0.0  30.9  25.8  23.7  20.9   19.3  21.2  23.3  25.6  28.2
(3) Distribution costs          8.1   11.1   10.5  23.2  23.1   23.4  31.5   33.5  35.9   53.3
(4) Training                   35.0  24.5  24.9   10.9  20.3  23.9  35.5   38.5  41.7  45.2
(5) Research and development    4.4    9.7   6.1    4.6   4.7    3.8   4.2    4.5    4.8    5.2
(6) Monitoring and evaluation   1.8   2.0   2.2    2A    2.6    2.9    3.1    3.4    3.6    3.9
Total                  132.4  159.5  150.0  277.4  286.0  292.7  389.4  414.3  445.3  640.4
2. RESPONSIBILIrIES FOR FINANCING INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EENDITURE UNDER THE PROJECT
600
-            ~~~~~~RFRTI'
Soo
400-
400 
IDA sa  Cofingandno
200-
100 
Govemnie
0
1991   1992   1993   1994   1993   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
3. MEASURES TO ENSURE SUSTAINABILrTY OF INITIATIVE UNDER THE PROJECT
(1) Revolving Fund for Textbook kenewal (RFTR)
(2) PSUMs and LGEAs will be required to prepare annual acuio plans on the basis of school-based budgeting that
Includes estimates of expenditures on:
(a) salaries and allowances of teaching and non-teaching staff;,
(b) classroom and furniture renovation;
(c) new classroom construction;
(d) provision of instructional materials;
(e) administrative operations; and
(f) miscellaneous items.
(3) States and LGAs are expected to increase their contribution to the National Primary Education Fund (NPEF).



- 117 -
ANNEX 3-10
Page I of I
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROSECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(USS milin)
Cumulative Disbursement
IDA                                       Annual            Cumulative      as percentage of Total
Fical                   Quartely          Disbursemcnt       Disbursement       This      Secw
Year      Quartr    Disbursement       (Amount)   (%)        (Amount)        Project     Profile <a
FY91        IV           2.0              2.0     1.7%           MO            1.7%       0.0%
FY92          I          4.3                                     6.3           5.3%
11          4.3                                   10.7           8.9%        3.0%
m            5.5                                   16.2          13.5%
IV           5.5            19.7    16.5%          21.7          18.1%        7.0%
FY93          1          5.5                                    27.3          22.7%
U           S.5                                   32.8          27.3%       13.0%
II           5.2                                   38.0          31.6%
IV           5.2            21.4    17.89%         43.1          35.9%       21.0%
FY94          I          5.2                                    48.3          40.2%
11          5.2                                   53.4          44.5%       26.0%
HI           6.6                                   60.1          50.1%
TV           6.6            23.6    19.7X          66.7          55.6%       38.0%
FY95          1          6.6                                    73.4          61.1%
II          6.6                                   80.0          66.7%       50.0%
i            5.3                                   85.3          71.1%
IV           5.3            ;2       19.9%         90.6          75.5%       58.0%
FY96          1          5.3                                    95.9          79.9%
11          5.3                                  101.2           84.3%      66.0%
Im          4.7                                   105.9          88.2%
IV           4.7            20.0    16.7%         110.6          9..I%       78.0%
FY97          1          4.7                                   115.3          96.1%
11          4.7             9_       7.9%        120.0          100.0%      86.0%
m
IV                                                                           90.0%
FY98          I
II                                                                          98.0%
m
IV                                                                          100.0%
<a Based an standard disbursement profile for eduction secto in Afrca Region, as of April 20, 1990.



- 118 -                       ANNEX 3-1l
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.          Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities.   The staff input in
the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of
progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc. (estimated for
this project to require four staff-weeks per year during the first three
project years, and three staff-weeks per year thereafter).
2.          Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
a.    Progress Reports are to be submitted at the end of March and
September each year by the National Primary Education Commission
(NPEC).
b.    Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of
the NPEC officer responsible for World Bank Projects. Review
meetings with the participation of the various project agencies
will be held normally in mid-April and mid-October of each year.
The meetings will be chaired by the Director-General, Federal
Ministry of Education.
c.    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Federal Ministry of
Education will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
Bank supervision missions and for providing information required
by missions. Missions will normally be accompanied by an officer
from the Primary Education Unit, FME, and the PIU officer
responsible for primary education.
d.    Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be chaired by
the Assistant Director of Education, Project Implementation Unit,
who will also arrange appropriate wrap-up meetings.



- 119 -                             ANNEX 3-11
Page 2 of 3
Book Suporvsleon Input Into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                        Expected Skill                Staff Input
(month/year)   Activity                         Requirements                 (staff-weeks)
8/91           Supervision Mission              Financial anolyst/economist          6.0
(Project Launch Workshop)       General educator
Procurement specialist
Disbursement speciallet
MIS speclalist
Research & evaluation
specialist
6/91           Review textbook component        Book production specialist*          2.0
progress and paper/printing
contractual arrangements
Review packages of vehicles     Procurement specialist                1.0
and equipment procurement
Review training component       General educator                      1.0
7/91           Supplementary materials          Library consultant*                  2.0
Library training courses        Library training consultant*         2.0
Design evaluation study         Book/education evaluation            2.0
of textbook provision           consultant*
10/91          Supervision Mission              Textbook specialist*                 8.0
Review status of book           Teacher educator
provision, training courses,    MIS specialist
research and evaluation,        Research and evaluation
HIS and medis campaign          specialist
4/92           Supervision Mission              Financial anal:st/economist          8.0
General educator
Implementation specialist
Textbook specialists
7/92           Textbook component               Book/evaluatlon consultant*          2.0
evaluation
10/92          Supervision mission              Financial analyst/economist          3.0
General educator
Implementation specialast
4/9S           Supervision Mission              Financial analyst                   10.0
General educator
Implementation specialist
R.eoarch and evaluation
specialist
Textbook specialists
7/98           Textbook component               Book/evaluation coneultar'..         2.0
evaluation
10/93          Supervision mission              Financial analyst                    8.0
Coneral educator
Implemontation specialist
4/94           Mid-ter Project Revise           Financial analyst                   22.0
Teacher educator
MIS specialist
Research and evaluation
specialist
Textbook speciali9t*
Procurement specialist
Architect
Socio-psycho-linguist
Examinations specialist
Managment specialist
Planner



- 120 -                              ANNE  3-11
Page 3 of 3
Approximate
Dates                                        Expected Sk III               Staff Input
(month/year)  Activity                         Requ Ie.Ints                  (staff-weeks)
7/94           Textbook compodent               Book/eveluation consultant*          2.0
evaluation
10/94          Supervlloa Mission               Financil analyst                    8.0
enra I educateor
Implementation spociallst
4/95           Supervsion Mission               Financlal analyst                   1.09
General educator
Implementation specialist
Textbook specia I estc
Research and evaluation
specTilist
7/96           Textbook component               Book/evaluation consultant.          2.0
evaluation
10/95          Supervision mission              Financlal analyst                    8.0
Goneral educator
HIS specialist
4/06           Superition Mission               Financlel analyst                   1090
General educator
Implementation specialist
Textbook epecialist.
Research and evaluation
specialist
7/96           Textbook component               Book/evaluation consultant           2.0
evaluation
19/96          Supervision Mission              Financial analyst                    4.0
General educetor
Examinations specialist
Implmntation specialist
4/97           SupervIson mission               Financial analyst                   10.0
General oducator
Implementation  gecial let
Research and evaluation
specialist
Textbook speciallst
9/97           ProJect Completion Report        Flnaneial analyst/economlst         22.0
General educator
MIS specialist
Research and evaluation
specialist
Textbook specialist.
Architect
Soclo-psycho linguist
Procuirement specialist
Management specialist
Examinations speciallst
Planner
o grant-alded consultents



- 121 -
NIGERIA - PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
I.   BANK DOCUMENTS
1.   Nigeria: Review of the Institutional Framework for the Management of
the Education Sector, February 12, 1985, Projects Department, Western
Africa Regional Office, Education Division.
2.   Nigeria: Education Sector Expenditure Review, July 1985 (Prepared by
Prof. Charles Benson), Education and Training Department, Education
Policy Division.
II. CONSULTANT'S REPORTS
1.   The Cost and Financinp of Primary Schooling in Nigeria, Keith
Hinchliffe, School of Development Studies, University of East Anglia,
Norwich, England, August 1987.
2.   Nigeria: Primary Education Sub-Sector Study Back-to-Office Report,
Luiz Secco, UNESCO, August 1987.
3.   The State of Primary Education in Nigeria - Preliminary Observations,
Samir A. Jarrar and Byron G. Massialas, EDG International, October,
1987.
4.   Nigeria Report - November 1989, Anthony A. Read, The Publishers'
Association, Book Development Council, London, England.
5. Nigerian Primary Education Improvement Scheme, Peter Ikechukwu Odor,
April 1989.
6. Improvement of Educational Data Base-A Statistical and Planning
Study, Prof. S.C. Aleyideino, April 1989.
7.   A Research Study on Primary School Textbooks Financing in Nigeria,
Kunle Akanbi, Department of Educational Technology, Obafemi Awolowo
University, April 1989.
8.   Nigerian Primary Education Project Preparation - Evaluation Study,
Samuel 'Tunde Bajah, International Centre for Educational Evaluation,
Untversity of Ibadan, Nigeria, March 1989.
9. Nigeria Primary Education Project - Print and Production Survey,
Nicholas Russell, United Kingdom, February 1989.
10. Supplementary Materials and Libraries in Nigerian Primary Schools and
Teachers' Colleges, Julie Carpenter, The British Council, London,
January 1989.



- 122 -
11.  Nigeria Primary Education Project - Distribution of Books, Prof. F.
Carew, Nigeria, March 1989.
12.  Nigeria Primary Education Project - Educational Materials
Distribution Study, Bridget C. Nwankwo, St. Bridget's Primary School,
Nigeria, April 1989.
13.  Nigeria Primary Education Project - Report on the Development of
School and College Libraries, Dorothy S. Obi, University of Nigeria,
February 1989.
14.  Nigeria Primary Education Project - Report on Financing the Project,
R. Smith, U.S.A., February 1989.
15.  Nigeria Primary Education Project - Book Distribution, P.P. Mwoltu
Nigeria, March 1989.
III. NIGERIAN GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS
A.   Educational Policy
1.   National Policy on Education (Revised) Federal Republic of Nigeria,
Federal Government Press, Lagos, 1981.
B.   Educational Financing
1.   Report of the Panel Appointed on Alternative Sources for Financing
Education in Nigeria, February 1982 (Chairman, Dr. Sanya Onabamiro).
2.   Report by the Presidential Commission on the Funding of Primary
Education in Nigeria, December 6, 1983 (Chairman, Chief A.Y. Eke).
3.   Report to the Study Group on Funding Education, November 1984
(Chairman, Prof. A.B. Fafunwa).
4.   Report of the Technical Committee on the Management and Financing of
Primary Education in Nigeria, 1987 (Chairman, Yahya Hamza).
5.   Government's Views and Comments on the Findings and Recommendations
of the Political Bureau, 1987, Federal Government Printer, Lagos.
C.   Educational Planning
1.   Statistics of Education in Nigeria, 1980 - 1984, 1985 edition,
Federal Ministry of Education.
2.   Statistics of Education from various States:  Lagos, Kaduna, Oyo,
Cross River, Imo, Ogun, Gongola, and Sokoto.



- 123 -
D.   Curriculum
1.   National Curriculum for Primary Schools in all subjects published by
the Federal Ministry of Education, Lagos.
2.   National Curriculum for Primary Teacher Education produced by the
National Teachers' Institute, Zaria.
3.   Report of the Oyo State Advisory Committee on Science and Mathematics
Education in Primary Schools, Secondary Schools and Teachers'
Colleges, Ministry of Education, Oyo State.
E.   Legislation
1.   National Primary Education Decree 1988, supplement to Official
Gazette Extraordinary number 53, volume 75, August 1988, Part A.
IV. BOOKS AND JOURNALS
1.   Nigerian Education, Trends and Issues, edited by Segun Adesina, Kunle
Akinyemi and Kayode Ajayi, University of Ife Press, Ile-Ife, 1983.
2.   Perspectives of Quantities and Qualities in Nigerian Education, A
Synthetic Report of the Bagauda Seminar, September 1-5, 1980,
Nigerian Educational Research Council, Lagos.
3.   The Inspector, Journal of the Federal Inspectorate of Education,
Federal Ministry of Education, Lagos (Various issues).
V.   PROJECT DOCUMENTS
1.   NIGERIA PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT DOCUMENT, submitted to the World
Bank, January 1990, Federal Ministry of Education, Federal Republic
of Nigeria.
2.   Draft Accounts for the year ended 31st December 1989, National
Primary Education Commission.
3.   1990 Approved Budget, National Primary Education Commission.
4.   Nigeria Books Sector Study: Summary Report. Commissioned by the
Federal Ministry of Education, funded by the World Bank and Overseas
Development Administration and carried out by the British Council,
Book Development Council and local consultants. Anthony Read. January
1990. Based on a series of studies managed by the World Bank.



NIGERIA                                       CHAD
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
__              ~~~~~NATIONAL PRIAR DUCA`CN HEADQUARTERS0\
/     -      \            ~~~~~~~AND ZONAL OFFICESJ        ,m
BURKYINA   2<,<=                                             J                                ,
MAO4JGURI
BENIN    t      )(/                                                                                   s
@ @ ~~~~~~~~A    |.
c            E nuGuA                     ^^" 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NSI. C.PW }w_
.   ,  .  \  / R   e      t  py@   ~
140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20    o0                        o       ,
_   ,        ,            ,,,   ,    ,   , ,,  <                  _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t4r4ix43 Boundades  



