Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21914
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-21910)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 90.6 MILLION (US$ 120 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
MARCH 21, 2001
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 13, 2000)
Currency Unit = Naira
Naira 1 = US$ .00923788
US$ 1.00 = Naira 108.25
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEC                 District Education Committee
ETF                 Education Tax Fund
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
IT                  Information Technology
FGN                 Federal Government of Nigeria
FME                 Federal Ministry of Education
LGA                 Local Government Authority
LGEA                Local Government Education Authority
MIS                 Management hIformation System
NPEC                National Primary Education Commission
NPEF                National Primary Education Fund
NUT                 National Union of Teachers
PEP                 Primary Education Project
PEU                 Primary Education Unit
PIC                 Project Implementation Committee
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PTA                 Parent Teachers Association
RFTR                Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal
SMOE                State Ministry of Education
SPEB                State Primary Education Board
SPU                 Special Program Unit
SPTF                Special Petroleum Trust Fund
(JBE                Universal Basic Education
UBEC                Universal Basic Education Commission
UNICEF              United Nations Children's Fund
VAT                 Value Added Tax
VEC                 Village Education Committee
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo (AFR)
Country Director:   Mark D. Tomlinson (AFC 12)
Sector Manager:   Rosemary Bellew (AFTH3)
;l                          Task Team Leader:   Eileen B. Nkwanga (AFTH3)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CR 2191-UNI
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                     9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  13
10. Additional Information                                                           13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24
Annex 8. Borrowers Report                                                            26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002134                                         Project Name: PRIMARY EDIUCATION
Team Leader: Eileen B. Nkwanga                              TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: March 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PRIMARY EDUCATION                               L/CITFNumber: IDA-21910
Country/Department: NIGERIA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primaxy Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/22/88                                  Effective:  11/15/91           03/12/92
Appraisal:  04/16/90                                   MThl: 03/12/95              06/01/98
Approval:  12/13/90                                  Closing: 06/30/97             06/30/2000
Borrower/ImplementingAgency: FED GOVT OF NIGERIA
Other Partners: National Primary Education Comnmission
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                            Kim Jaycox
CountryManager:       Mark D. Tomlinson                          Caio Koch-Weser
Sector Manager:       Rosemary Bellew                            Janet de Merode
Team Leader at ICR:   Eileen Nkwanga                             Eileen B. Nkwanga
ICR Primary Author:   Patricia Maughan-Colon; Eileen
Nkwanga
Eileen Nkwanga and Patricia Maughan-Colon - First Draft
Brigitte Duces - Final Report
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory,H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
BankPerformnance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualitv at Entry: S                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Primary Education Project (PEP) supported the first phase (1990-1995) of a fifteen-year
education improvement program in Nigeria. The project supported the following national objectives for
primary education: (a) upgrade the quality of education, (b) improve resource allocations, (c) increase
enrollment, (d) strengthen public institutions responsible for primary education, and (e) stimulate future
planning for the next phase of the program. The focus of the project was on improving the quality and
management of education which, when combined with an "enlightenment" campaign, were intended to
increase primary enrollment. Project interventions to support these objectives were intended to be national
in scope and implemented over six years.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during the life of the project. However, the coverage and scope
of some national activities were scaled back in response to capacity constraints and a deteriorating
environment, and school and community-based pilot projects were introduced as a necessary strategy to
achieve progress towards the above objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components.
1.    Upgrading the Quality of Primary Education by
(a)    providing books and supplementary instructional materials including:
(i) 88 million Primary 1 to 6 textbooks to all schools (36,000) in the ratio of one mathematics
textbook for each child in P1 to 6, one science book for each child in P1 to 3, one English book
between two children in P1 to 3, one English book per child in P 4 to 6 and one social studies book
between two children in P1 to 6; a set of textbooks and teachers' guides for each teacher;
replacement of textbooks after three years; and other leaming materials for math and social studies;
(ii) primary-level library books and supplementary readers to community libraries set up in 413
Local Government Education Authorities (LGEA); and
(iii) training over 350,000 teachers, headteachers and inspectors in the care and use of the books
and materials;
(b)   improving curriculum delivery through training teachers and other education personnel in new
curriculum content and materials, continuous assessment and record keeping through a cascade model
2.    Improve Resource Allocation by
(a)    maintaining the share of the federation account budgeted for the National Primary Education Fund
(NPEF) at 65% of teachers' salaries and regular reporting by NPEC on allocations and expenditures until
the states and local governments are in a position to finance and manage the system;
(b)   reinforcing cost sharing and community participation by involving parents and communities in the
financing of school improvements, and introducing a textbook revolving fund (RFTR) into which an annual
rental fee N 20 (US $ 0.15) charged per student per book for four books would be deposited to ensure a
continuous supply, and
(c)   reallocating budgets in favor of non-salary items by ensuring that SPEBs and LGEAs establish
separate budget lines for training, maintenance and instructional materials.
- 2-



3.    Increase Enrollments through the quality inputs and an "enlightenment" campaign to report on
primary education problems and improvements, and convince parents of the desirability of sending children
to school.
4.     Strengthen Institutional Capacities in planning, monitoring, procurement and financial
management through fellowships and technical assistance, and workshops developed by Nigerian tertiary
institutions for the Ministry of Education and LGEA, and establishing a management information system
(MIS) and electronic mail, research studies into sectoral issues.
3.4 Revised Conmponents:
In 1997, when the project should have been closing, little had been achieved and only about 10% of
the Credit had been disbursed. Following a request from the Ministry of Finance to extend the Credit, a
project review was undertaken; US $30 million was canceled; and the credit was extended for three years.
Two pilots were added to enable experimentationof alternative approaches to improve the quality of
education and community involvement for later scaling up. One pilot -- the self-help projects -- earmarked
resources for 74 school-based and 11 state-based innovation projects, on a matching basis, to provide an
incentive to parents to give their diagnosis of the problems in schools and resources to pursue their own
solutions. The second pilot -- the focus schools -- was launched in 370 schools, ten schools per state to test
the effectiveness of a broader range of support (physical rehabilitation, library books, furniture, teacher
training and teaching aids) to improve quality and serve as models and resource centers for nveighboring
schools.
3.5 QualitvatEntry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory from several perspectives. Relevance -- The projecfs objectives
were consistent with the needs of the sub-sector, with the Government's strategy for the development of
primary education announced in March 1989 . Knowledge -- The project evolved from the findings and
recommendations of sector work qligeria: Primary Education Sub SectorStudy, Report No.7389-UNI,
June 30, 1989) which identified key issues in the sector and underpinned the Government's request for Bank
assistance. Substantial analyses of the Nigerian publishing industry had also been carried olut prior to
project preparation. Participation -- Project preparation involved widespread consultation with federal and
state education agencies, a practice which was not common at the time. Lessons Learned -- Project design
took into account lessons learned from prior projects. These included the need to incorporate a monitoring
and evaluation mechanism, and ensure that implementation capacity is available. Sustainabil'ity -- To
ensure the sustainability of essential inputs (i.e. textbooks and teachers), the project supported a
cost-recovery mechanism for book replenishment and establishment of the NPEC to pay teachers' salaries.
Commitment -- The Federal Government's commitment was reflected in a willingness to make institutional
changes (i.e. NPEC) to ensure a higher likelihood that teachers would be paid. However, one might
question whether the risks had been identified adequately. Govemance and capacity issues remained highly
problematic during implementation. Problems with a fee recovery system for textbooks may have been
predictable for an environment with pervasive governance issues.
Quality at entry was unsatisfactory from the perspective of realism for project implementation.
Given the already deteriorating climate at the start of the project, the proposed policy measures
(maintaining funding levels, increased cost sharing for primary education, and increased funding for
non-salary inputs) seem overly optimistic to be achieved.
- 3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemen! of objective:
Achievement of project objectives is mixed across the objectives, but unsatisfactory overall.During
the first six years of project implementation, that is, up to the original Credit closing date in June 1997,
only 10 % of the Credit (US $13.4 million) had been disbursed. At that time, the FGN requested an
extension of the Credit; the project was reassessed; US $ 30 million was canceled; and the project was
extended with US $ 80.8 million remaining. Project performance improved notably between 1997-2000
when US $78.8 million were disbursed. At Credit closing in December 2000, US $ 2 million was canceled.
Enrollment increased. Enrollment in primary school was expected to increase as a result of
improvements in the quality of education and an "enlightenment" campaign to highlight the benefits of
schooling to parents. Data for the decade are highly suspect due to inadequate progress of the MIS, deep
cuts in government expenditure for data related activities, and increasing inaccuracies of the population
data, with the 1991 census data being the only reference point. Moreover, data are only available up to
1998 while most project investments were made between 1997 - 2000. With these caveats, the available
data from UNESCO and the Nigerian Government point to a downward trend in percentage of the
school-aged children enrolled in primary school. The gross enrollment rate for the public school system is
estimated at 78% in 1991 and enrollment at 14.8 million. In 1998, enrollment is estimated at 16.8 million
students for an average annual enrollment growth rate of 2 percent over the period, and a gross enrollment
ratio of about 71% in 1998. At least three hypotheses can be advanced to explain this downward trend,
but none have been tested. One hypothesis is that other factors weighed more heavily in parent's decisions
to educate their children than did the quality of education. Several factors support this hypotheses.
Economic conditions worsened considerably over the decade, and the share of the population below the
poverty line increased from 45% to 60%. The prevalence of HIV/AIDS increased from 1.8% to 5.4%. At
the same time, parents were expected to contribute more to the cost of education. A second hypothesis is
that quality had not improved as a result of project inputs because implementation of accompanying
supports to the inputs was never fully carried out. There is some support for this hypothesis in that the
teacher training and assessment system that were to accompany the textbook and new curriculum programs
were never carried out. Therefore, it would be reasonable to conclude that what and how teachers taught
did not change as a result of the new curriculum, books and libraries. Based on this, achievement of the
enrollment objective is assessed as unsatisfactory. The third hypothesis is that the educational system was
is such a state of deterioration that a more intense intervention over a longer period of time is needed to
have any measurable impact on enrollment and quality. In this case, the project only scratched the surface
of what was needed and could not have been expected to have a significant impact but simply to prevent an
even steeper decline.
Quality of Educational improved. Achievement of this objective is rated unsatisfactory although
project interventions have laid the ground for improvements in the quality of primary education in Nigeria.
Schools that benefited from the focus schools and self-help programs have a much improved leaming
environment with proper classrooms, furniture, and teaching materials. Textbooks, previously rare
commodities, were made available in all schools. This was a significant achievement of the project.
However, the training envisaged for teachers to familiarize them with the new textbooks and curriculum,
and with procedures for continuous assessment, personnel management and record keeping was never
implemented. During the life of the project itself, it is difficult to point to significant quality improvements
as measured by enrollment, persistence in school, or higher achievement in the system.
- 4 -



Resources to primary education increased. This objective was partially achieved. Available data
suggest that public expenditure on education declined in real terns over the decade, although expenditure
data are partial. The textbook revolving fund, which was intended to recover costs for book
replenishment, did not lay the foundation for sustainable book replenishment.
The revolving fund for textbook renewal was established at project start-up and maintained in an account in
a commercial bank and the size of the contributions was estimated to ensure book supply after the project
was finished. District Education Committees and Village Education Committees were engaged to act as
monitors of the parental contributions. Nevertheless, only N 134 (US $1.3 million) was collected which
represents only 10% of the amount if all book fees had been collected and deposited. Resistance among
some parents was also displayed, partially because the fund was not explained clearly to most communities
where parents protested at having to pay for books that they expected to be free. It is also likely that,
although the individual book fee was small (N 20, or about US $ .15 per book), this is too rnuch for poor
parents, with several children in school, all requiring books in at least five core subjects, all at the
beginning of the school year when other school costs, such as uniforms also need to be spent. Ways of
addressing such problems do not seem to have been developed. The rental scheme was subsequently
abolished.
On the positive side, even though budgetary allocations declined, the NPEC and its National Primary
Education Fund guaranteed that the allocated government resources were used to pay teachers' salaries as
evidenced by the (near) elimination of teacher strikes for non-payment of salaries which had previously
been a routine occurrence. In addition, the self-help projects brought in increased communily contributions
(although marginal in spending terms) to school construction and rehabilitation, as well as funding from the
states and other donors.
Capacity Building Strengthened. Achievement of the capacity building objectives is mixed. An
important achievement of the project was the foundation that it built for future primary school improvement
and for the current democratic Government's priority to achieve Universal Basic Education (UBE). The
project's self-help and focus schools have been instrumental in creating community empowerment and local
government support for community-based school development in pilot areas. The results of several
research studies funded by the project informed the policy dialogue between the different levels of
Government in Nigeria, and underpin the current Government's policy framework for the development of
UBE. More generally, the lessons leamed from the project enable Nigeria' s UBE program to be planned
and pursued more realistically. The project resulted in an increasing number of collaborative activities
between govemment, communities and donor agencies (e.g., Benue State), and stimulated some
decentralized capacity-building (e.g., Adamawa State). It build procurement capacity and improved the
standards in the book and school fumiture industry. Although these are important achievements, capacity
building in the delivery of educational services through the training of teachers, field persomnel and
ensuring a sustainable re-stocking of books was not achieved. And, although NPEC staff were trained and
provided support to develop an MIS, educational and financial data remain unavailable, and unreliable
when available, making it impossible to draw conclusions about even the most basic of trencls in
enrollment, equity, efficiency, financing, quality and the concerns of the beneficiaries.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Upgrading of Primary Education. The outputs expected were produced in the case of textbooks and
pilot schools, but the other outputs expected did not reach their intended scope. With respect to textbooks,
within the final three years of the project, primary school textbooks for grades 1 to 6 were distributed to all
(36,000) schools throughout the country as planned and are now in use in most regular and focus schools.
The textbooks cover the four core subjects of the primary school curriculum (English, Mathematics, Social
Studies and Primary Science), and were prepared in the three main languages used in Nigeria: Igbo, Hausa
-5-



and Yoruba. Teachers' guides for Primary 2 to 6 were distributed to teachers. Focus schools were also
supplied with storage cabinets and subject syllabi and record books. Guides on Continuous Assessment
were developed and piloted in focus schools.
Educational achievement tests were standardized and research on their use completed and disseminated.
These inputs increased the perception of improved quality education as expressed by teachers, students,
parents and education officials during the final evaluation of the project. However, the impact of the
textbooks and new curriculum beyond the pilot schools is difficult to determine given that teachers in most
public schools were not trained in how to use the books, the syllabus, and assessment. The training was to
follow a cascade model whereby tertiary institutions would train 230 master trainers, who would train
2,300 state education officers, who would in tum train 36,000 teachers, who would then train the teachers
at the school or cluster level. By the time of project closing, only the master teachers had been trained.
With respect to the enlightenment campaign, calendars, diaries, news letters and brochures were produced
and disseminated to publicize the project and its goals. Promotional visits by the Executive Secretary of
NPEC to State Governors and monthly "awareness meetings" between Local Government Chairmen and
Executive Secretaries of LGEAs were held. A set of slides on the state of primary education was
completed in collaboration with the National Educational Technology Center. Radio and television
broadcasts were used to highlight physical improvements for the Self-Help projects component and
demonstrate what could be achieved with community efforts. It is not clear, however, to what extent these
outputs reached the grassroots level or whether Nigerians were receptive to listening to efforts made by a
Government in whom trust had completely eroded.
Strengthening of Institutional Capacities. To strengthen capacity, the project mainly financed
vehicles, offices, equipment, overseas training and sector work. The latter was instrumental in forming
policy decisions in the planning of UBE, and included studies on the cost, financing and management of
primary education, a public expenditure review, client consultations, and a policy dialogue on primary
education in the 21st Century. A study on the procurement, distribution and financing of textbooks was
also completed. A full list of documents is in Annex 7. Federal capacity was also strengthened through
overseas staff training of 18 officers in project management, procurement and accounting, a limited MIS
was developed, and limited electronic mail was installed. NPEC headquarters and zonal office staff were
trained in management and analysis of education statistics for policy and planning. Some 413 staff of State
Primary Education Boards and LGEA's were trained in project management and community mobilization.
Local govemment officers trained primary school heads in budget management for school projects.
However, the MIS has not been built and maintained to provide sufficient and reliable education indicators.
4.3 NTet Present V'alue/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated for the Project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated for the Project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has been instrumental in building skills in statistics, research, monitoring and evaluation in
NPEC at the national level. However, sustainability of the investment is questionable. Staff tumover is
high. The strong centralization of the military governments, which removed many of the responsibilities for
basic education from the local govenmments and states, needs to be reversed; and govemance issues need to
be addressed across the sector.
-6-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Outside the control of the implementing agency was the overall environment in general in Nigeria
which was one of unprecedented decline in scope and swiftness accompanied by a complete, erosion of trust
among the population in public authorities. By 1995, the Bank and all other donors had withdrawn their
support and maintained only a low level of activity in key sectors. The Bank's presence in the country was
also reduced.
World Bank procurement procedures, although in the interests of economies of scale and the lowest
prices, were not well suited to the Nigerian context. The tradition of textbook provision in Nigeria showed
regional variations which would have best been served by each state not only choosing but also procuring
their own textbooks. However, the project could only be cleared within the Bank if titles and quantities
were aggregated across the 36 states and procured centrally. While this produced costs of between 50 and
98 cents a book, well below those in other African countries, it unnecessarily complicated procurement
procedures and distribution, and lengthened the time required.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
From 1993 to 1997, the project went through a period of first unsatisfactory performance, then
followed with a highly unsatisfactory rating, and a brief suspension of the credit (from February 1996 to
June 1996). The main reasons for the ratings and the suspension were threefold: (a) severe and persistent
lack of counterpart funding; (b) lack of progress in all components, and especially for the textbooks that,
having been delivered, had not been distributed to the schools; and (c) the institutional bottlenecks created
by the lack of coordination between the two agencies responsible for project implementation. At the time
the suspension was lifted, the last two issues had been resolved; and some counterpart funds had been made
available. Sufficient counterpart funds, however, remained a problem throughout the rest, of the project.
(i) Governance Issues: Repeated political interference in the project for financial reasons
undermined capacity and created doubts regarding the project's ultimate likelihood of success. This was
complicated by long delays due to complex Govemment clearance procedures for project-related imports,
and low ceilings for approval within the Ministry (Naira 5.0 million, USD 50,000). Effective procedures
were not in place to ensure that suppliers complied with contract terms, the specifications of services and
goods, or agreed delivery arrangements. The result was extended clearance times, and exacerbated
relationships between the federal and other govemment levels. Contract management was eventually
irnproved by the full-time appointment of a local procurement specialist in 1997, and procurement
problems were reduced.
(ii) Counterpart Funding for the Project: Government was consistently unable to meet its
counterpart funding commitments. At project appraisal this amount was estimated at Naira 1,920 million
(USD 34.4 million), or 22% of total project costs. Between 1992-1995 the federal government released
just Naira 24.5 million (or 13% of the total commitment). The slow release of counterpart funding
significantly hampered implementation progress, particularly with regard to teacher training which was
majority Govermnent financed. Govemment difficulties in making its full counterpart contribution to the
project were in part due to a deterioration in the macro situation following the abandonment of the
structural adjustment program in 1991, accompanied by annual inflation rates of between 45% and 73%,
and reduction in Government spending on education in real terms. However, State and Local Governments
continued to provide their contributions in cash and in kind for project activities.
- 7-



(iii) Institutional Issues: NPEC, the implementing agency for the project, and the NPEF were
dissolved by the Government just before project effectiveness. A Special Program Unit (SPU) was retained
and transferred to FME, newly responsible for project implementation. Responsibility for managing
primary education reverted to the Local Government Authorities (LGAs) where it constitutionally belonged
(Decree #3 of January 1991). On request from the Federal Minister of Education, the DCA was revised to
reflect the fact that the SPU would implement the project jointly with a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
located within the FME with the latter taking major responsibility for procurement and financial
management and the SPU responsible for component planning, logistics and execution. Although many
staff of the PIU benefited from project-funded training, project implementation deteriorated due to the new
unit's limited understanding of the project's origins, goals and implementation arrangements. The
arrangements were reversed in February 1996 when Government decided to reinstate both the NPEF and
the NPEC in order to ensure timely payment of teachers and to prevent cancellation of the project. NPEC's
role was to manage the NPEF, ensure that teachers were paid and to manage projects. In the medium and
long term, NPEC was expected to devolve responsibility for primary education down from the federal level
to the states, local governments, districts, villages and schools. Although many local govemments and
some states defaulted in paying teachers and providing resources for primary education, and severe
capacity constraints resulted from the creation of new states and local governments, personnel at these
levels resented the federal government taking the lead. While the establishment and support of an agency
such as NPEC is defensible in a period of military rule and political tunnoil, the new democratic
environment presents an opportunity to support and foster a much more decentralized approach to primary
education, while strengthening the capacity of local governments to be a more active partner in the delivery
of the education system.
(iv) Continuity of Personnel: Frequent personnel changes in project leadership and management
contributed significantly to implementation delays. Since project appraisal, the project has been overseen
by eight ministers of education and nine NEPC Executive Secretaries. With each new administration,
personnel at all levels changed. Activities were repeatedly delayed as new staff familiarized themselves
with the project. In addition, the dissolution of NPEC and its later reinstatement as the project's
implementation agency seriously affected the project's progress for about five years.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(i) Distribution of the initial supply of textbooks could have been more efficient if the process had
been better planned and incorporated into the suppliers' contracts. Some textbooks were distributed to
regions where the particular language of the textbook was not spoken. These distribution problems were
partially remedied under the second and third procurement tenders by requiring publishers to supply the
textbooks directly to the LGEAs.
(ii) The media campaign and community mobilization could have been utilized more effectively
to not only promote schooling at the primary level but also to inform parents of the rationale for the
textbook rental fee.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs were originally estimated at US $158.4 million of which IDA was to finance US
$120 million equivalent (96% of foreign exchange costs and 44% of local costs). In 1997 when the project
was re-appraised for extension, total costs were reduced to US $128.5 million, and the IDA Credit was
reduced to US$ 90 million. The Govemment of Japan provided US $4 million in paper for the production
of textbooks. Actual project expenditures were about US $99.6 million, net of taxes.
- 8-



Government contributions fell far short of commitments. Activities relying on a substantial percentage
of counterpart funding were severely curtailed.Due to these problems, the Credit financed certain
Government obligations such as distribution of books which was partly built into the publis:her's contracts,
and activities that depended on Government financing, such as teacher training, were not carried out. In
addition, the extended implementation delays and the introduction in early 1996 of a 15% value added tax
on all goods and services increased local costs so the small counterpart funding provided during the life of
the project of US $3.4 million (compared with an appraisal estimate of US $34.5 million and a revised
estimate of US $8.3 million) bought even less than projected.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Reasonable possibilities exist for the sustainability of project accomplishments for the following
reasons. First, Government's political commitment to primary education is stronger now than when the
project began. UBE is a high priority of the current government. Second, technical staff continuity
appears likely for a while as NPEC staff, who were trained by the project, have been incorporated into the
Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), the intended successor of the NPEC. Third, the UBEC
budget for the year 2000 included substantial allocations for educational facilities at the state and local
levels and for instructional materials in primary and junior secondary schools.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
On assuming power in May 1999, Nigeria's elected government declared UBE one of its top
priorities and requested continued Bank support. In response, a follow-up credit (Second Primary
Education Project) was prepared rapidly and became effective in August 2000 to continue ihe activities
fmanced under PEP I, while the policy, strategy and financing to achieve UBE is being developed.
In terms of institutional transitions, in 1998, the National Assembly decided to abolish the NPEF in
recognition of the states' and local governments' constitutional responsibility for financing and managing
primary education. Subsequently, NPEC staff were absorbed into UBEC which, in partnership with the
states, local governments and communities, will carry forward many of the instructional improvements and
capacity building activities started under the project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Project preparation documents
were comprehensive. The specialists who comprised the design team were experienced. The Staff
Appraisal Report provided a comprehensive guide to the project's planned activities. The preparation team
recognized the need for substantial institutional capacity-building at all levels of the educatilon system. The
emphasis on the provision of better instructional materials and capacity building education was informed
by available best practice concerning the value of textbook investments and was responsive to the Bank's
goals of "Education for All." The design team sought to-marshal all of the limited counterpart capacities
available both at the federal and state levels of administration (i.e., the PIU of the FME and the
subsequently created NPEC) rather than choose between the two. However, this arrangement subsequently
proved to be politically complicated and led to lack of sufficient clarity in the division of responsibilities.
The preparation team identified the possibility of low commitment, mismanagement and time
over-runs caused by capacity problems and complexity of project design. The SAR mentions several
-9-



actions that were taken to mitigate these risks, including close cooperation between Bank and government
project staff, adding technical assistance to address the capacity problems, and simplification of the project
design. Even with these actions, the project experienced severe problems. Project objectives were too
ambitious, given the country conditions, and the project design proved to be too complex, especially
because of the magnitude of the operations. Even though technical expertise was planned to be added to
the project staff, once implementation started, this was not carried out.
The textbook revolving scheme, thought at the time of project preparation, to be an appropriate
mechanism for sustainability, was tried in a number of countries all over the world, and was given
substantial support in the Bank. It proved, however, as it did in most countries, not to be successful,
because of its complexity to administer, high overhead costs, and severe leakage of funds. Of the many
revolving funds in Africa, only one remains still in operation. The rightness of the decision to include such
a revolving fund in Nigeria, therefore, should be questioned.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision and implementation support overall was satisfactory, but varied over the years, being
satisfactory early on and towards the end of the project and unsatisfactory in between. The intensity of
Bank supervision varied over time. Between 1991 - 1992, an average of four missions took place each
year. Between 1993 - 1995 and in 1997, two missions a year were fielded, and no missions took place in
1996. Throughout this time, the project essentially laid dormant and received unsatisfactory and highly
unsatisfactory ratings. Since 1997, intensive implementation support was resumed with a combination of
field and headquarters staff; the controversy over the NPEC was resolved; and the project was almost fully
disbursed within three years. Although not always regular, the available evidence suggests that IDA's
supervision missions were adequately staffed. In the absence of viable alternative strategies, the inability to
find a mutually agreeable solution to the dissolution of the NPEC and the reinstatement of the FME's PIU
delayed project implementation for many years. The combination of resolving the NPEC issue, intensified
implementation support, partial cancellation of the credit, extension of the closing date, and selective
re-structuring of the project design produced a largely successful result during the period of the extension.
In terms of continuity, the project had only two team leaders during its implementation, both very
knowledgeable about its implementation and problems. For the most part, the project was managed from
Headquarters, with some inputs, primarily for procurement and disbursement from the country office.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
As a result of the above assessments in both lending preparation and supervision for this project,
IDA's overall performance is assessed as marginally satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Government teams made
various contributions to the. 1987 sector study (Nigeria: Primary Education Sub-sector Study - Report
No.7389-UNI) that laid the groundwork for the project rationale and objectives. FME personnel raised key
sectoral issues with the Government's Joint Consultative Committee on Education, and recommended ways
in which these issues might be addressed in an Issues Memorandum. The proposal was submitted to the
National Council on Education, which prioritized the needs and outlined preferred strategies. The results
were later presented to IDA as a project proposal and the first project concept document. National
counterpart teams were subsequently established to work with international consultants and IDA staff in
preparing the project.
- 10-



Government also prepared the legal groundwork. A federal decree of August 1988 outlined a
trategy for the development of primary education and communicated the following executive actions: the
1PEF was established, into which the federal government contributed annually an amount equivalent to 65
percent of the calculated cost ofsalaries forprimary school teaching and non-teaching staff; provisicins
vere made to ensure that each level of government made its own contributions to this Fund and that fands
sassed on to local governments were used specifically for the purpose of primary education; the NPEC
vas established as a semi-autonomous parastatal under the FME to direct and monitor the development of
.rimary education, and to administer the NPEF. The decree further stipulated the structure and functions
,f primary school management institutions to be established at state, local, district and village levels,
.reating the following institutions: (a) State Primary Education Boards in each State; (b) Local
iovenmment Education Authorities in each local government area; (c) District Education Committees in
ach district of the local government area; and (d) Village Education Committees in each village in the,
istrict.
'.5 Goverenmentimplementation performance:
The Borrower's implementation performance is considered unsatisfactory. Although the FME's
ommitment to quality primary education remained strong throughout much of the project, its actions in the
rea of project implementation were not always constructive. First, immediately prior to project
ffectiveness, the Government dissolved NPEC. Second, three areas of particular shortcoming have
lready been noted: (a) political interference in the procurement process; (b) frequent leadership and
taffmg changes; and (c) non-compliance with counterpart funding commitments. To some extent, these
hortcomings were offset by Government efforts to improve management and quality control in primary
ducation. However, these positive actions could not offset the negative effects of these other problems
uhich were the main causes of implementation delays.
.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Borrower's implementing agencies is assessed as satisfactory. Although the
roject progressed slowly during its early phase due to the problems noted above, the work of the
4inistry's PIU and, later, the NPEC was thorough and of good quality. NPEC was also fairly successful
i forging good working relationships with the SPEBs, LGEAs, schools, districts, and communities at:
urge. A Network Committee (NETCOM) was established in 1998 to bring together key stakeholders for
nhanced coordination and implementation. A core group of NETCOM participants (the implementation
-am) met monthly to review the progress of project activities, identify problems and propose remedial
.ieasures. An enlarged NETCOM group made up of representatives of the FME, the Federal Ministiy of
inance, SPEBs, LGEAs and the NPEC implementation team met quarterly to exchange views. In the
rocess, NPEC has become an effective vehicle for catalyzing, mobilizing and facilitating primary
ducation development.
NPEC staff worked diligently to ensure the effectiveness of project interventions. They procured
istructional materials, vehicles, and textbooks; organized training programs, and capably carried out
,xtbook storage and distribution. The NPEC teams met with LGEAs to ensure their preparedness for
-ceipt of the textbooks and supported them in meetings with PTAs and village councils. The teams were
otably successful in monitoring and evaluating the Self Help projects program. Project progress reporting
/as satisfactory.
.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, it may be concluded that the Borrower provided a policy environment that laid the
roundwork for the project's interventions, and that the Borrower's main implementing agencies performed
cceptably, particularly in the later years of the project. However, the detrimental effects of govemance
- 11 -



issues, excessive staffing changes and deep shortfall of counterpart funds cannot be overlooked. As a
result, the Borrower's overall implementation performance can best be classified as inconsistent and barely
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Implementation of a basic services project within a general climate of lack of support from
government and overall deterioration in the country will result only in minimal gains. Even with great
effort and dedication on the part of the implementing agency and strong support from the Bank, such a
project is not able to turn around a continually declining situation in basic education. As a result, access,
quality and institutional capacity overall in the country did not improve during implementation. The best
such a project can accomplish is to lay the groundwork for improvement, once conditions improve, and to
slow down the deterioration somewhat. This is, in fact, what has happened.
The most successful interventions were those with substantial involvement from communities. In
an overall environment of strong centralization, poor governance, and loss of trust in Government, the
community self-help projects, although a small pilot, provided an approach that was effective in achieving
results and in the effective use of its limited resources. This approach is also now being used successfully
by other donors and by education managers in some of the states.
The use of alternative institutions-- such as para-statals-- for service delivery may be the most
effective way to achieve results in a centralized, deteriorating environment, but is difficult to reverse
once in place. NPEC performed as well as is possible under the circumstances, but gradually carried out
more of the basic services that constitutionally are the responsibility of states and local governments.
Given the general conditions, channeling resources and activities through a para-statal may have been the
best way to proceed. In the long run, however, the regular line agencies become substantially weakened,
with conflicting and overlapping responsibilities. This inefficient system will then require restructuring and
substantial capacity strengthening to carry out its roles.
Unless project inputs are designed in a whole-school approach, they willfail to achieve their
desired results. Providing textbooks to schools, where the physical infrastmcture is badly deteriorated and
without training the teachers in their use, will not achieve much quality increases. For effective
improvement, the different inputs have to be designed to work together in a school.
Designing a nation-wide project for primary education, to be deliveredfrom a central agency is
not effective. The project, designed as a nation-wide project, with the same inputs for each state, provided
at the same time, was less than effective in responding to the individual situation of a state and to the needs
and conditions of its primary education system. The top-down nature of the project did not allow states to
determine what would be their priorities for primary education, nor any variation between states depending
on their needs, resulting in lack of state ownership with the project.
To minimize implementation delays, the needfor specialized skills to implement key project
activities should be identified and key postsfilled before the project begins. The Project development
team relied too heavily on the procurement capacity of the PIU which, although it had been developed
under a previous project, was not sufficiently mature to cope with the considerable procurement activity
that the project required. The Government subsequently insisted on using local expertise instead of an
internationally qualified specialist.
- 12 -



The Bank's procedures for dealing with unsatisfactory performance during implementation,
although improving performance over time, were not able to achieve a successful project overall. During
the last three years of the project, both Bank and project staff worked hard to reverse the previous decline,
but were unable to achieve the significant improvements that would have made for a satisfactory project.
In such instances, it would be better to close the project as early as possible, rather than extending an
unsatisfactory performance over a number of years.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implemnenting agency:
The Borrower's evaluation of the project is in Annex 8. Generally, the Borrower's appreciation of
the project is positive both in terms of the relevance of the project for Nigeria as well as the support
received from the Bank in recent years. The main challenges to implementation and achievement of project
objectives identified by the Borrower include a shortfall of counterpart financing, frequent staff changes,
and delays in intemal approval processes for procurement matters. Overall, the Borrower concludes that
the project inputs have had a positive impact on enrollment and learning outcomes. A greater sensitivity to,
and support for, greater beneficiary participation in the management of schools is also developing from the
observations that beneficiary communities in most pilot self help schools showed high commitment in
ensuring the successful implementation of the projects supported in their schools. School-level projects
were also found to be more effective that state level projects. However, the Borrower notes that the
textbook rental system was not very successful because many parents objected to the payment of the rental
fee.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (INGOs/private sector):
None received.
10. Additional Information
BASIC PROJECT DATA
OriHinal Credit Amount                    US$120.Om
Current Credit Amount                     US$94.2m*
Amount Canceled                           US$30.0 m
Current Disbursement                      US$92.2 m
Co/Parallel Financing (Japan)             US$4.0 m (2.5 billion Yen)
Board Approval Date                       December 13, 1990
Signing                                  August 15, 1991
Effectiveness                             March 12, 1992
Original Credit Closing Date             June 30, 1997
Current Credit Closing Date              June 30, 2000
End of Disbursement Period                October 31, 2000
* The Credit increased by about US $4.2 million due to a favorable rate of exchange between the US$ and
the SDR during Project implementation.
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
1. (i) Instructional materials for classes 1,2  Instructional Materials for classes 1, 2 and 3  Instructional materials for classes 1, 2 and 3
and 3 available in 80% primary schools  available in all primary schools nationwide;   available in all primary schools nationwide;
nationwide;
1. (ii) Textbooks for classes 4 to 6 delivered  Textbooks and teachers' guides for classes 4 Textbooks and teachers! guides for classes 4
to 700 LGEAs;                           to 6 available in at least 700 LGEAs;  to 4 available in at least 700 LGEAs and
delivered to a substantial number of schools
in preparation for the new school term;
1. (iii) Improvements in physical leaming  Refurbishment completed and furniture  More than 370 schools refurbished and
environment (buildings and furniture) in 370  supplied to 370 schools nationwide;  supplied with classroom and office furniture
focus schools;                                                                 and storage cabinets. More focus schools
are being supported under PEPII and will,
later, provide the focal points for locally
implemented school improvement initiatives;
1. (iv) Textbooks for classes 1 to 6 and  Textbooks and teachers' guides for classes 1 At least 370 focus schools have textbooks
supplementary readers available in the focus to 6 and supplementary readers available in  for class 1, textbooks and teachers' guides
schools;                                all focus schools;                     for classes 2 to 6 and supplementary readers
and reference books;
1. (v) All focus school teachers trained in use All focus school teachers trained in use and  Some master trainers courses provided by
and care of instructonal matenals.      care of instructional materals.         Project; training to focus school teachers
given by UNICEF and/or SPEBs in some
states. Training of teachers in existing and
planned focus schools deferred to PEPII.
2. (ii) Adequate funding provided for   Adequate recurrent funding for instructional  The FY2000 budget for UBE included a
instructional materials.                materals provided annually.             request for instructional materials based on
Naira 50 per student. The RFTR holds
about Naira 150 million for book replacement.
Akhough the FY2001 budget request has
been presented the allocation for primary and
junior secondary instructional materials is not
known.
3. (i) At least 50% of LGEAs have       At least 50% of LGEAs have transportation   Automobiles and motorcycles have been
transportation for inspection and materals  for inspection and materals distribution.  distributed. The boats for riverine areas are
delivery.                               These include automobiles, motorcycles and yet to be cleared from port.
motorboats.
- 14 -



Output Indicators:
:ndicat~     x                       P       d -: . i --a : = - . .S-        Acatt atest Estimate
1. (i) Focus school teachers attend work    In focus schools teachers attend work more  School visits durirng the ICR mission that
regularly and demonstrate improved teaching regularly than previously and improved  included discussions with students,
and leaming;                            teaching and leaming is observed;        teachers, headmasters, PTA chairmen and
members, local communities, LGEA
personnel, SPEB chairmen and Board
members and members of State
Govemments indicated that teachers and
students are more motivated to attend school
and participate in the teaching/learning
process. Interviewees attested to
improvements in leaming;
1. (ii) Measurable improvements in      Measurable achievements in achievement in  Standardized tests prepared and piloted but
achievement in focus schools.           focus schools as measured by standardized  not yet administered. Deferred to PEPII
tests.                                  where both existing and new focus school
students will be tested.
2. (i) Primary teachers remunerated on time. 2. (i) Primary teachers remunerated on time. Generally, it is reported that payment of
salaries is timely and that teachers have
received their bac:k pay and increments.
3. (i) Self-help initiatives evaluation indicates  Evaluation of self-help projects should  Final evaluation of self-help projects indicate
small-scale projects have achieved      indicate they have achieved objectives;  that most of the 74 local-based and 11
objectives;                                                                      state-based projects have been successfully
implemented. Some states - particularly in
the North where self-help is less of a tradition
than in other parts of Nigeria - have taken the
initiative to fund additional self-help projects.
Success is most pronounced where several
initiatives are combined to support target
schools. For example, in Benue State
project, the SPEE;, the local govemment,
UNICEF and the IDA Project combined
produced improvements to school
infrastructure andl environment and to child
health through refurbishing and/or
construction; clean water supply; provision of
toilets, instructional materials and furniture.
Coverage of the self-help projects is being
extended under F'EPII;
3.(ii) NPEC capacity has improved.      NPEC capacity in program planning, project The capacity of L BEC has been
coordination, financial management and  strengthened in preparation for its expanded
procurement will have been strengthened.   role. Zonal offices, SPEBs and LGEAs
whose capacity and links with UBEC have
been strengthened, are to be further assisted
under PEPII.
4. (i) NPEC HQ and zonal offices have MIS  NPEC HQ, SPEBs and Zonal offices have   Equipment installed and in use at NPEC HQ
installed and in use;                   MIS installed and in use by trained staff;    and zonal offices. Staff trained. IT
equipment for SF'EBs and NPEC HQ
delivered centrally; awaiting installation after
needs and office location determined. SPEB
staff trained;
4. (ii) A policy framework for revitalizing  Policy framework for revitalizing primary  Policy document titled Nigerian Primary
primary education in the next century has    education in the 21 st century developed and  Education in the :21 st Century developed,
been developed and disseminated;        disseminated;                            published, distributed and informing policy
and practice;
-1 5 -



4. (iii) Collaboration between departments   In the Interests of decentralization there will  Working relationships between NPEC,
and agencies involved in the project   be an observable improvement in        SPEBs, LGEAs, DECs and VECs have
evidenced in, inter alia, book distribution.    collaboration between levels of govemment,  been gradually strengthened during project
institutions and agencies responsible for    implementation. Collaboration has
primary education.                     accelerated due to setting up of NETCOM,
the participatory approach to Primary
Education Development and the resulting
Self-Help Projects Program, and the
introduction of civilian rule. Meetings of
NETCOM are held on a monthly basis. The
expanded NETCOM that includes
representation of the SPEBs, LGEAs and
other institutions is held three monthly. The
UBE Coordinator meets with SPEB chairmen
monthly. More responsibility for Primary
Education Improvement is being taken at the
state and local levels. Collaboration and
capacity-building are continuing under PEPII
for which a multi-level steering committee
has been established.
End of project
- 1 6 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost b Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Estimate   S imate       Apwia
~r-jet Cos  yCmosn;$   ito                          U%$ mlion   _____
1. Textbooks                                          68.40           63.60            93
2. Librarv Books                                       9.90            0.10              1
3. Distribution Costs                                  7.80            0.45           5.77
4. Vehicles and Equipment                             19.10           30.70            161
5. Consultancy Services and Technical Assistance       1.50            0.20           13.3
6. Training                                           12.10            1.63          13.47
7. Research and Development                            2.90            0.84          28.97
8. Monitoring and Evaluation                           1.10            0.20          18.18
9. Self-Help Projects                                  0.00            0.51
Total Baseline Cost                                  122.80           98.23
Physical Contingencies                                6.10            2.01          32.95
Price Contingencies                                  29.50            3.10          10.51
Total Project Costs             158.40          103.34
Total Financing Required             158.40          103.34    .
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procur4n'-n' Metho>                      ThtaS Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      99.90         13.70         5.80         17.60        137.00
(97.30)       (13.70)       (1.80)       (0.00)      (112.80)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          1.80          0.00         1.80
Consultancies                (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.60)        (0.00)       (1.60)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          14.70         0.00         14.70
Training                      (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.40)        (0.00)       (4.40)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          3.50          1.40         4.90
Research, Development,       (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.10)       (0.00)       (1.10)
Monitoring and Evaluation
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
Self-Help Projects            (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      99.90         13.70         25.80         19.00       158.40
(97.30)       (13.70)       (8.90)       (0.00)      (119.90)
- 17-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                         0.00           0 00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        81.98           13.23          0.75           4.00          99.96
(78.83)        (11.00)        (0.59)         (0.00)        (90.42)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.20           0.00           0.20
Consultancies                   (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           1.63           0.00           1L63
Training                        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.65)         (0.00)         (0.65)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.84           0.20           1.04
Research, Development,          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.42)         (0.00)         (0,42)
Monitoring and Evaluation
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.51           0.00           0.51
Self-Help Projects              (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.51)         (0.00)         (0.51)
Total                         81.98          13.23          3.93           4.20          103.34
(78.83)        (11.00)        (2.37)         (0.00)        (92.20)
IFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2i Includes civil works and goods to be procured tbrough national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- iESEE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .S i...... ... .  iSLS''............ ''EEEg:'0:  
1. Textbooks             77.40      7.60      4.00      59.17       0.15      4.00     76.4   2.0   100.0
2. Library Books         12.30      0.00      0.00       0.10                 0.00     0.8    0.0    0.0
3. Distribution           0.00      9.90       0.00      0.00       0.45      0.00     0.0    4.5    0.0
4. Vehicles and          23.20      2.60      0.00      31.20                 0.00    134.5   0.0    0.0
equipment
5. Consultancy Services   1.60      0.20      0.00       0.15       0.13      0.00     9.4    15.8   0.0
and TA
6. Training               4.40      10.30     0.00       0.65       1.63      0.00     14.8   15.8   0.0
7. Research and           1.10      2.50      0.00       0.42       0.84      0.00     38.2   33.6   0.0
Development
8. Monitoring and         0.00      1.40      0.00       0.00       0.20      0.00     0.0    14.3   0.0
Evaluation
9. Self-Help Projects     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.51       0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                    120.00     34.50     4.00      92.20       3.40      4.00     76.8    9.9   100.0
Figures do not always add up - due to rounding.
Govemment's $2.04 for duties, taxes and contingencies have been excluded from the total cost.
- 18-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
This activity was not programmed at project appraisal. However, the Borrower prepared a table to show
the economic costs of the project, which is included in their evaluation report.
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Projt Cycyle           :  0Nq. Of Persons and Specilly P"errmance R*ing
Mnth/ear    Con            Pecai                          progzs           Obetv
Identification/Preparation
11/88                        4   lES, ILC, lFC, IPPC                  S                 S
03/89                         1   lES                                 S                 S
05/89                         2   lES, IOA
11/89                        2   lES, ICON
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/90                         2   ILA, ISE                            S                 S
07/90                         4   ISE, IOA, ILA, IDO                  S                 S
Supervision
01/91                         1  ISE                                  S                 S
05/91                         1  ISE                                  U                 S
07/91                         2  ISE, 1OA                             U                 S
12/91                         2  ISE, 10A                             S                 S
12/91-Project Launch          3  ISE, IOA, IDO                        S                 S
Workshop
04/92                         4  ISE, IOA, IPO, ITS                   U                 S
07/92                         6  ISE, IOA, 2PS, lBS,                  U                 S
1MNG
11/92                         2  IOA, IPS                             S                 s
05/93                         4  IOA, 2AU, IPS                        U                 U
10/93                         1  IOA                                  U                 U
01/94                         5  ISE, 1OA, ITS, IDA, IPS              U                 U
05/94                         2  IOA, 1 PS                            U                 U
03/95                         4  ISE, IOA, IPS, IPO                  HU                HU
12/95                         2  IOA, IHRE                           HU                HU
05/97                         2  IES 100                             HU                 U
10/97                         7  lES, IFM, 100, ISA,                  U                 U
IPA, IDA, IEAO
02/98                         5  lES, IF, 100, IPA, IHRE              U                 U
06/98 Midterm Review          7  lES, IFM, 100, IPA, IHRE,            S                 S
IBS, 1SA
09/98                         7  IES, IFM, 200, IPA, 1HRE,            S                 S
1SA
02/99                         4  lES, 1FM, 100, IPA                   S                 S
05/99                         4  lES, 1FM, IPC, IPA                   S                 S
10/99                         6  IES, 1FM, IPC, IPA,                  S                 S
1HRE, lSSS
01/00                         6  3ES, 1FM, 1IS, IPA                   S                 S
05/00                         4  2ES, 1FM, IPA                        S                 S
ICR
09/00                        3   2 ES,1IS                             S                 S
AU=Auditor, BS=Book Specialist,CON=Consultant, DA=Disbursement Analyst, DO=Disbursement Officer,
- 20 -



ECON=Economist, EAO=External Affairs Officer, ES= Educator Specialist, FC=Financial Consultant, FM=Financial
Management, FMS=Financial Management Specialist, BRE=Human Resource Economist, I=Implementation Specialist,
LA=Lead Adviser, MNG=Management, OA= Operations Analyst, OO=Operations Officer, PA=Procurement Analyst,
PC=Poverty Coordination, PO=Project Officer, PS=Procurement Specialist, SA=Social Anthropologist, SE=Sr. Educator,
SSS=Social Sector Specialist, TS=Textbook Specialist, TES=Teacher Education Specialist, REC=Research & Evaluation
Consultant
(b) Staff:
1-    Stage ofProje6  Cycle-                         AtualLatestflsti-ate:  .
.                                                    .    . -:  : -    .   -  :   . :   :- :. : : ... - :-:- :: : ::: ... -: - ::: ::--:.:: :.::: :.--........
No.! StafWf we                  US$ (;QQ()
Identification/Preparation                   102.4                          251.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                         43.7                           107.3
Supervision                                  300.0                          776.7
ICR                                           11.5                            28.9
Total                                        457.6                         1,164.5
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Physical                                O H  O SU OM   O N  O NA
0 Financial                               O H  O SU * M  O N  ON VA
[ Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           C H  0 SU 0 Af 0 N       NVA
Social
l Povertv Reduction                 O H  CSUOM  O N  * NA
OCGender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
0 Other (Please specifv            0 H  C SU O M  O N  0 VA
Fu Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 iVA
0 Other (Please specify)                   O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
I Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
IZ Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
J Overall                                           OHS OS  O u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
2 Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
X Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS Os  O U  0 HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
IDA Prepared Documents:
Staff Appraisal Report - November 20, 1990
Development Credit Agreement - August 15, 1991
Memorandum from Ian Porter, Division Chief, AF4PH to Olivier Lafourcade, Director, AF4DR -
Warning of Suspension of Disbursement - dated November 27, 1995
)O    August 1, 1996 World Bank Memorandum from Jose Sokol, Acting Country Director (AFC 12) to
Jean-Louis Sarbib, Vice President, AFR - Lifting of Suspension of Disbursement
)0.    Analysis and Redefinition of Development Objectives - World Bank Doc. - August 18, 1998
)O>    Aide Memoire on the Mid-Extension Review - June 1-10, 1998 - National Primary Education
Commission
)0.    Mid-Extension Review Issues Paper - April 30, 1998
Project Action Plan for July 1999-March 2000 - Letter to Hajiya Amina I. Ahmed, Exec.
Secretary NPEC, from Eileen Nkwanga - dated July 2, 1999
Extension of Closing Date Memo - from Yaw Ansu to Jean-Louis Sarbib - dated June 8, 1999
)O    Overseas Training & Study Tours, 1992/93 - List of Activities Approved by IDA - 04/04/94 -
Under cover of April 4, 1994 letter to Mr. B.O. Odugbose, FME PIU from Josephine Woo, Project Officer,
IDA.
World Bank Technical Paper No.420 (Africa Region Series) - HARD LESSONS - Primary
Schools, Community, and Social Capital in Nigeria - Paul A. Francis, et al.
>     FINDINGS - #130, March 1999 - Nigeria: Consultations for Improved Primary Education
>     Nigeria: Primary Education in the 21st Century - Policy Brief (Primary Education Project -
Cr.2191-ITNI) - June 30, 1999
NPEC Prepared Documents:
>     Preparation for Mid-Term Review: Evaluation Report - NPEC Document of 8/28/95
>     Letter on Project Status & Key Actions Required - from Ian Porter, Division Chief, AF4PH to
Hon. Dr. M.T. Liman, Minister of Education, Nigeria - June 16, 1995
>     NPEC's Input to the World Bank-Assisted Primary Education Project (Jan. 1990-Dec. 1999)
>     NPEC Newsletter - Vol.1,2,3 - April 1995
PIU Evaluation Report on its Activities - September 1, 1995
Decree 96 of August 25, 1993 (Document establishes NPEC)
>     Nigeria Primary Education in the 21st Century
>     Social Sector Client Consultations - The Case of Public Primary Education in Nigeria
)O>    Pilot Project Implementation Manual (For Use by Project Communities)
)01    Educational Management - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
>     Primary English - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
>     Cultural & Creative Arts - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
>     Continuous Assessment - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
)O    School Mapping - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
>     School-Based Auditing Programme - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
>     School-Based Budgeting Programme - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School
Teachers
>     Educational Planners, Statisticians and Computer Operators - A Training Handbook for Nigerian
PS Teachers
>     Library & Care of Books - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
- 24 -



>     Primary Science - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
Primary Mathematics - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
>     Social Studies - A Training Handbook for Nigerian Primary School Teachers
9     Monitoring & Evaluation Report on Primary Education in Nigeria - Federal Ministry of Education
- Special Programme Unit - Kaduna - December 1991
9     Social Sector Public Expenditure Review - National Report - April 1998 - Authors: Adamu,
Alabi, and Okunmadewa
Other Reports:
>     Final Report of the Panel of Consultants on a Study of Implementation Arrangements for Primary
Education Project - Conducted 14th August to 8th September, 1995 - September 18, 1995
>     Nigeria - Implementation Study - October 1995 - B. Nekby, 0. Komolafe, I.D.Nwoga,
J.B.Adeogun
>     Study on the Procurement, Distribution and Financing of Textbooks for Primary Schools in
Nigeria (Final Draft - March 22, 1995) - OPIFER Ltd.
>     Manual for Effective Management of Primary Education in Nigeria - Federal Ministry of
Education - Special Programme Unit, Kaduna
>     Assessment of Learning Achievement of Primary Four Pupils in Nigeria - National Report -
September 1997 - Federal Government of Nigeria/UNICEF/UNESCO - Monitoring of ]Learning
Achievement Project - Authors: Falayajo, Makoju, Okebukola, Onugha, Olubodun.
>     Sustainable Textbook Provision for Primary Schools in Nigeria - Tokunbo Olowu - Otura
Publishers
9     Primary School Textbook Distribution Report - Julian Rea - July 19-August 1i;, 1992 - Nigeria
Book Sector Study
9     Study on the Procurement, Distribution and Financing of Textbooks for Primary Schools in
Nigeria - June 1995, Education Development Services - OPIFER
>     Final Report of the Study on Cost and Financing of Primary Education in Nigeria - December
1996 (Updated 1997/98) - Authors: Ajayi, Baikie, and Akande.
- 25 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report
Project Design and Preparation Phase
The project's objectives were to achieve the following:
(a)    upgrading of primary education;
(b)    improving resource allocation;
(c)   increasing primary school enrollment;
(d)    strengthening of institutions;
(e)    facilitating future planning: and
(f)   involving communities in support of improvement of primary education delivery
(a)    Upgrading of primary education
This was very appropriate for the needs of the country. It was aimed at providing:
(i)   textbooks and other instructional materials for pupils and teachers, and library
books;
(ii)   supplementary reading materials in libraries in local govemment areas to improve
reading proficiency of pupils;
(iii)   basic training for library staff;
(iv)   visual, demonstrative and manipulative materials to assist children in the leaming
of concepts;
(v)    training of teachers, headteachers and inspectors in the care and use of
instructional materials;
(vi)  training and orientation courses for teachers, headteachers, administrators and
inspectors on the new curriculum, new instructional materials, school skills and
procedures, including continuous assessment, remediation, personnel management
and record-keeping skills;
(vii)  training of master-trainers, inspectors, headteachers and classroom teachers in the
use of curriculum modules;
(viii)  copies of subject syllabi and record books to teachers to familiarise them with the
national primary education syllabus and the use of record books; and,
(ix)   secure storage facilities for textbooks.
(b)    Improving Resource Allocation
This was very appropriate for the needs of the country. It was aimed at providing for
improvement in resource allocation in adequate funding for primary education and
maintenance or satisfactory funding level; and (ii) the establishment and maintenance of a
Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal Account (RFTR Account) to ensure the continuous
supply of textbooks to pupils in primary schools.
(c)    Increasing Primary School Enrollment
This was very appropriate for the needs of the country. It was aimed at:
(i)   intensification of the campaign to publicise primary education including the
dissemination of publications; documentary, radio and television programs, visits
throughout Nigeria by the Special Program and Primary Education Units, and
presentation of information on primary education by the LGEAs;
- 26 -



(ii)    acquisition of cameras, VCRs, projectors and vehicles for use in said publicity
campaign.
(d)    Strengthening of Institutions
This wvas very appropriate for the needs of the country. It was aimed at achieving:
(i)    local training of LGEA staff,
(ii)    development, by Nigerian Universities and Polytechnics, of training programs
including workshops, study tours and short courses in foreign institutions for staff
of FME, SMOEs and LGEAs;
(iii)   short-term fellowships outside Nigeria for staff of FME;
(iv)   fellowships in data management of FME's Special Program Umt (SPU);
(v)    provision of equipment, materials and vehicles to FME, SMOEs and other project
institutions;
(vi)   employment and assignment of a procurement specialist to assist PIU in procuring
goods and services under the project.
(e)    Facilitating Future Planning
This was very appropriate for the needs of the country. It was aimed al achieving:
(i)    the establishment of a management information system (MIS) to provide timely
and reliable data;
(ii)   training of educational planners in computer operations, statistics, data
management, educational planning and school mapping;
(iii)   long-term fellowships for senior statisticians in local Universities;
(iv)    Short-term fellowships for computer operators in local institutions;
(v)    research studies into sectoral issues;
(vi)   strengthening of FME by provision of MIS equipment, vehicles and electronic
mail services:
(vii)  strengthening of NPEC by provision of MIS equipment, copiers, fax machines,
on-line e-mail services etc.,
(f)    Involving communities in support of improvement of primary education delivery
This was very appropriate for the needs of the country. It was aimed at:
(i)    providing support funds to assist communities to complete their on-going projects;
(ii)    ensuring that communities were accountable and transparent;
(iii)   encouraging community initiative and participation
II.    Project Implementation Phase
1.    Achievement of Objectives
Eleven (11) constructs were assessed on a three-point scale of substantial, partial and
negligible. A non-affective construct is scaled 'Not Applicable." The constructs included:
macro policies, sector policies, financial objectives, institutional development, physical
objectives, poverty reduction, gender issues, other social objectives, environmental
objectives, public sector development and others. The constructs partially achieved were:
macro and sector policies, financial objectives, and private sector development. Those
whose achievement were negligible were: institutional development, poverty reduction,
gender issues, other social and environmental objectives, and public sector management.
Physical objectives were not applicable in the assessment of achievement constructs.
- 27 -



2.    Bank Performance
The Bank performance was assessed on four (4) constructs using a three (3) - point scale
which were: highly satisfactory, Satisfactory and Deficient. The Bank performance was
considered to be highly satisfactory on supervision, and satisfactory on the other three
constructs, namely, Identification, Preparation, Assistance and Appraisal. We found the
Bank staff helpful and forthcoming about anything on the project.
3.    Borrower Performance
The Borrower performance was assessed on four (4 constructs using a-three point scale
which were: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory and Deficient. The Borrower performance
was considered to be satisfactory on preparation and operation while Implementation and
Covenant compliance were considered to be deficient.
4.    Major factors that affected the project
The major factors that have affected the project were the:
(a)    erratic allocation and non-availability of counterpart funding for those components
that had higher percentage of local financial inputs such as training, and
monitoring and evaluation activities;
(b)   initial scrapping of the implementing agency (NPEC) in 1991 hence change in
management. Consequently, the project was transferred to PIU and finally to
NPEC in 1994;
(c)    delays in obtaining authorizations from the supervising Ministry in clearing goods
from the ports;
(d)    devaluation of the Naira as a result of inflation etc.
(e)   transition between NPEC and Universal Basic Education, etc.
5.    Project Sustain ability
The project SUSTAINABILITY was considered uncertain as more information, based on
future activities, were needed to clearly determnine the situation. For example, the position
of the RFTR charges for textbooks after six years of use was still not clear as most parents
were not willing to accept the policy as given. Communities were, however, being
sensitised to the need to be involved in the management of their schools. The antecedents
of PEP I in terms of general experience would serve in good stead in subsequent projects.
III.   Lessons Learned
(a)    The non-release of counterpart funds stalled the implementation of the project. When
released, they came late hence, unnecessary delays. This accounted for the initial
cancellation of part of the Credit.
(b)    Bureaucracy delayed authorizations for activities that should have been promptly
implemented with the receipt of "No Objection" from the Bank.
- 28 -



(c)    Communities found the implementation manual very useful particularly Di enabling them
focus their attention on relevant areas of their activities towards a successful project
completion.
(d)    Inflation caught up with some of the activities as a result of unnecessary delays in
authorizing the activities and releasing funds for their implementation.
(e)    Staff changes in the implementation agencies affected project implementation.
(f)    The institutional arrangements -- monitoring and evaluation, financial management,
publicity, procurement -- facilitated the implementation of the project.
(g)    The Network Committee on Project Implementation (NETCOM) through its coordinating
roles, facilitated project implementation.
(h)    The different Bank Missions served as good guides in project implementation by keeping it
on course at all times.
(i)    The self-help component, especially, has stimulated interest among communities to be
more involved in the community schools, engendering the spirit of maintenance. The
component has also become a standard for resource allocation that can elicit community
participation. It has been adopted in Katsina State and consolidated the PIPE
(Participation in the Improvement of Primary Education) in Benue state.
Results
(a)    The quality of primary education has been upgraded through:
(i)    provision of textbooks and other instructional materials for pupils and teachers,
and library books;
(ii)   provision of steel cabinets;
(iii)  train-the-trainers program on curriculum modules and continuous assessment and
record-keeping.
(iv)   provision of copies of subject syllabi and record books for teachers to familiarise
them with the national primary education syllabus and use of record books,
(v)    provision of secure storage facilities for textbooks in the 370 focus schools.
(b)    Resource allocation has been improved through:
(i)    putting in place funding mechanisms for primary education mainatenance;
(ii)   the establishment and maintenance of a Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal
Account (RFTR Account)
(c)    Primary School Enrollment has been increased through intensified campaign to publicise
primary education with the use of publications, documentary, radio and television
programs; etc.
(d)    Institutions have been strengthened through:
(i)    partial implementation of short-term fellowships outside Nigeri.a for FME's
Special Program and Project Implementation Units (SPU/PIU);
(ii)   provision of equipment, materials, and vehicles for project institutions;
(iii)   employment of a procurement specialist to assist NPEC in procuring goods and
services under the project
- 29 -



(e)    Future planning has been facilitated through:
(i)   the establishment of a management information system in NPEC to provide timely
and reliable data;
(ii)   partial implementation of training in computer operations, statistics, data
management, etc.;
(f)    Communities have been involved in support of improvement of primary education delivery
service through:
(i)    provision of support funds to enable them complete their on-going projects;
(ii)   ensuring that they were accountable and transparent in their operations; and
(iii)   encouraging them to show initiatives.
IV.   Plan for the Project Operational Phase
1.     Proposed arrangement for the future operations
1.1   For future operations there will be two (2) committees at different levels for
implementation and co-ordination of the components of the project. These are the:
(a)    Project Steering Committee (PROSCOM), at the Federal Ministry of Education
level to be chaired by the Honourable Minister of Education (HME);
(b)    Network Committee (NETCOM), at the UBE level, to be chaired by the UBE
Coordinator. The PROSCOM is to meet every quarter while NETCOM is to meet
monthly.
1.2   There will be seven (7) sub-committees of NETCOM for the different components of the
project e.g. financial management, procurement, publicity, training, research and
development, HIV/AIDS Education, and, EMIS.
4.1.3  For the purpose of institutional arrangements, the following are in place; monitoring and
evaluation, publicity, financial management and procurement. These are meant to
strengthen project implementation.
4.1.4  The performance indicators for monitoring future operation and development impact of the
project include the following:
(a)   improved enrollment and attendance/interest in school;
(b)    gender parity (enhanced girl-child enrollment);
(c)    pupil performance in achievement tests;
(d)    mastering major skills in instructional process;
(e)   improved service conditions/teachers' commitment to their job;
(f)    competence in the keeping and use of continuous assessment; and other records;
(g)    documentation of maintenance habits;
(h)   type and number of instructional skills demonstrated, procurement etc.;
(I)    competence in the use of local resources for instructional materials;
(j)    number of furniture delivered;
(k)    willingness of pupils to participate in school activities;
(1)    parents' involvement in the value of education;
(m)   improvement in the value of education;
(n)    pupils acquiring good reading habits;
(o)    number of new words acquired by pupils;
- 30 -



(p)    number of instructional materials delivered to various schools;
(q)   impact of teacher development program, and other programmes
(r)   improvement of curriculum implementation
(s)   improvement of teaching by new supervising technology;
(t)   improvement of teaching by interactions with other teachers;
(u)   information to policy maker on effective multigrade teaching;
(v)    competence in the analysis of documentation, report-writing; budgeting,
accounting, procurement, applying software, collecting school-base data;
(w)   determining monitoring indicators, acquisition of skills in preparation for UBE;
(x)    number and quality of various hardware delivered;
(y)   languages and number of radio and TVjingles.
- 31 -






MAP SECTION






PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                   ) iCA
NATIONAL PRIMARY EDUCATION HEADQUARTERSal 
/ AND ZON~~~~~~~~AL OFFICES lll
BURKINA
y\t | \ > v~~~~~~~~~~~~~NO/ 
KADXNAMAIDUGURI
BENIN                                                                                                                                                                                   O
S  t                    <              WUNA X                    4  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~BACHI/ 
MINNA
Ben- R ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~Oin,.nefh.-                                           NtinlPr.~i
lBADANAi2                AKUREl':                                                  MKRI|J-
ABEOKUTA|'                                                                                                    
forifie              ~~~~EducotionCofe
o,Itismondea   nub                         Zon.l Monitoring
No.tiolCapitol
x~                                                                           MOES                                            Stat Boundarien
O        International Bo.nd.rie.
0                                                                                                                                                         04D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



