Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2191 UNI
                    (Primary Education Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 15, 1991
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2191 UNI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 15, 1991, between the FEDERAL REPUBLIC
OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "FME" means the Federal Ministry of Education;
      (b)   "SMOEs" means the State Ministries of Education;
      (c)   "LGEAs" means the Local Government Education Authorities
established pursuant to Section 1 of Decree No. 3 of 1991;
      (d)   "RFTR Account" means the Revolving Fund For Textbooks
Renewal Account referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement
and Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "Mid-term Review" means the mid-term review referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (f)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to
in Part D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (h)   "Naira" and the sign "N" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ninety million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 90,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial or merchant bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
Page  3
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15, 2001, and ending September 15, 2025. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on Septem-
ber 15, 2010, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and education policies and practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
Page  4
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the Borrower's
obligations under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
(i) provide in its budgets amounts sufficient to cover its counter-
part contributions to the costs of the Project; (ii) open and
maintain an account (the Project Account) in a commercial or
merchant bank to be used exclusively for expenditures under the
Project; (iii) deposit into the Project Account an initial amount of
N2,000,000 (the Initial Deposit); and (iv) thereafter pay each
quarter into the Project Account (commencing from the quarter
immediately following the quarter in which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective) the respective counterpart contribu-
tions of the Borrower. The Borrower and the Association presently
estimate the said counterpart contributions to amount in 1990 prices
to $34,400,000 equivalent over the Project period.
      (c)   For the purposes of estimating the Borrower's counter-
part contributions under paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review, by
September 30 each year, a detailed statement of the expenditures
proposed under the Project for the following year.
      (d)   The Borrower shall no later than December 31, 1991, open
and thereafter maintain the Revolving Fund for Textbook Renewal
Account (the RFTR Account) in a commercial or merchant bank. The
RFTR Account shall consist of: (i) a contribution per pupil to be
made by parents and guardians of primary school pupils; and (ii)
funds realized from the resale of paper obtained for purposes of the
Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than 3 years
after the date on which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective carry out jointly with the Association a mid-term review
of the Project; and (ii) to that end, prepare and furnish to the
Association three months prior to such review, all relevant
documents, showing progress attained in carrying out the objectives
of the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out the actions described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
Page  5
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association details of
the means to be used to monitor and evaluate the progress of the
Project;
      (b)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association plans for
book distribution by LGEAs to the schools;
      (c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association master
plans (including cost estimates of such plans) designed for use by
the States to upgrade skills of inspectors, headteachers and
classroom teachers;
      (d)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and paid in
the Initial Deposit; and
      (e)   the Borrower has awarded contracts for master trainers'
courses under Part A (viii) of the Project.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
              and Economic Development
            P.M.B. 12591
            Federal Secretariat
            Ikoyi, Lagos
            Nigeria
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FEDMINFIN                 21248 (ITT)
                   Lagos
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                         By /s/ Zubair Mamoud Kazaure
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
Page  7
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Instructional             65,100,000        100% of foreign
    materials                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory costs)
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2) Vehicles and              16,800,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                   expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Consultants'               1,200,000        100% of foreign
    services                                    expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Training                   3,170,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                40% of local
                                                expenditures
(5) Research and                 830,000        50% of local
    development                                 expenditures
(6) Unallocated                3,500,000
         TOTAL                90,600,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) upgrading the quality of primary education in Nigeria; (ii)
improving resource allocation for primary education; (iii) increas-
ing primary school enrollment; (iv) strengthening institutions
responsible for primary education; and (v) facilitating future
planning for primary education.
Page  8
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Upgrading of Primary Education
      Upgrading of primary education including: (i) provision of
textbooks, library books and other instructional materials for
students and teachers; (ii) appointment by FME of a panel to
evaluate textbooks with a view to assuring the quality and relevance
of textbooks; (iii) provision in libraries in local government areas
of supplementary reading materials to improve reading proficiency of
students; (iv) basic training of library staff; (v) provision of
visual, demonstrative and manipulative materials to assist children
in the learning of concepts; (vi) training of teachers, headmasters
and inspectors in the care and use of instructional materials; (vii)
training and orientation courses for teachers, headteachers,
administrators and inspectors aimed at familiarizing them with the
new curriculum and new instructional materials and school skills and
procedures including continuous assessment and remediation and
personnel management and record keeping skills; (viii) training of
master trainers, inspectors, headmasters and classroom teachers in
the use of course models; (ix) provision of copies of subject
syllabi and record books to teachers to familiarize them with the
national primary education syllabus and the use of record books; and
(x) provision by State and local government authorities of secure
storage facilities for textbooks.
Part B:     Improving Resource Allocation
      Measures to improve resource allocation for primary education
including: (i) the maintenance and adequate funding for primary
education; and (ii) the establishment and maintenance of a Revolving
Fund for Textbook Renewal Account (RFTR Account) to ensure the
continuous supply of textbooks to pupils in primary schools.
Part C:     Increasing Primary School Enrollment
      Measures to increase primary school enrollment including: (i)
intensification of the campaign to publicize primary education
including the dissemination of publications, documentary radio and
television programs, visits throughout Nigeria by personnel of FME's
Special Programme and Primary Education Unit and presentation of
information on primary education by the LGEAs; and (ii) acquisition
of cameras, VCRs, projectors and vehicles for use in said publicity
campaign.
Part D:     Strengthening of Institutions
      Strengthening of project institutions including: (i) local
training of LGEA educational administrators, SMOE accounting staff
and LGEA accountants and other administrative, finance and planning
staff; (ii) development by Nigerian universities and polytechnics,
under contract to the Borrower, of training programs in educational
administration, planning and statistics including workshops, study
tours and short courses in foreign institutions for staff of the
Federal Ministry of Education (FME), SMOEs and LGEAs; (iii) short-
term fellowships outside Nigeria for staff of FME's Special
Programme in educational planning, research and project management;
(iv) fellowships in data management for staff of FME's Special
Programme; (v) provision to FME (Federal Inspectorate of Education),
the SMOEs and other project institutions of equipment, materials and
vehicles; and (vi) employment and assignment to the Project
Implementation Unit in FME (PIU) of a procurement specialist to
assist PIU in procuring goods and services under the Project.
Part E:     Facilitating Future Planning
      Facilitating future planning by educational planners and
policymakers including: (i) the establishment of a management
information system to provide timely and reliable data; (ii)
Page  9
training of educational planners in computer operations, statistics,
data management, educational planning and school mapping; (iii)
long-term fellowships for senior statisticians in local univer-
sities; (iv) short-term fellowships for computer operators in local
institutions; (v) research studies into sectoral issues; and (vi)
strengthening of FME (Federal Inspectorate of Education).
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages that would permit competitive bidding and
facilitate bulk purchase.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for: (i) the acquisition of textbooks estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $11,300,000 equivalent; and (ii)
goods (including library books and vehicles and equipment) estimated
to cost an amount equivalent per bid package to $500,000 or less, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,400,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed $9,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
Page  10
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 3 of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Page  11
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Page  12
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                           SCHEDULE 5
       Actions Referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement
1.    (i) FME shall require SMOEs and LGEAs to prepare annual action
plans on the basis of school-based budgeting, including annual
income and expenditure projections; and (ii) such expenditure
projections shall include:
      (a)   salaries and allowances of teaching and non-teaching
staff;
      (b)   classroom and furniture renovation;
      (c)   expenditures for new classroom construction;
      (d)   provision of instructional materials;
      (e)   administrative expenses; and
      (f)   miscellaneous expenditures.
2.    FME (Special Programme) shall prepare and furnish to the
Association: (i) by January 1, 1994 (A) the norms, standards and
specifications to be used in the selection of primary school
equipment and facilities, and (B) a set of enrollment projections to
serve as a basis for educational planning by FME's Special
Programme) for the period ending on December 31, 2000; and (ii) by
Project completion, the norms and standards to be applied in
assessing pupil achievement in grades three and five of primary
schools.
3.    FME shall: (i) require LGEAs to integrate on-the-job in-
service teacher training into the work program of primary school
teachers and supervisors; and (ii) prepare and furnish to the
Association prior to the date of the Mid-term Review plans for
accomplishing such integration.
4.    FME shall encourage the LGEAs to include library periods in
school timetables within their areas of jurisdiction.
