LN - ESC 3                                        C                        LE COPY
C!P;CULAI; COPY.
To BE RxTUR^iED TORIORTS DS
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For PtMic Use
Reon No  12a-TU
APPRAISAL OF
A RAILWAY PROJECT
TURKEY
April 6, 1973
Transportation Division-Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be piblithed. quoted
or cited without Bank Group authoriation. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or comnpletenes of the report.






Currency Equivalents:
Currercy Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
Subsidiary Unit - Turkish Kurus
Through December 1971              Since January 1972
uS$o.066      - TL 1                US$0.071      -TL 1
US$1.CV        = TL 15              US$1.00       = TL 11
US$66,666      T TL 1 million       US$71 ,40     - TL 1 million
US$I million  - TL 15 million       US$1 million - TL 14 minlion
Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                   = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                0.98 long ton (lg ton)
= 1.10 US short tons (sh ton)
1 passenger-kilometer (pass-,:m)  = 0.62 passenger mile (pass-mi)
1 ton-kilometer (ton-km)          = 0.68 US short ton-mile (ton-mi)
Abbreviations and Acronyms:
MFW  - Ministry of Public Works
SPO  - State Planning Organization
TCA  - Transport Coordination Agency
TCDD - Turkish State Railways
TCPC - Transport Coordination Project Center



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF A RAILWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page bNo.
SUMIOA     AND CONCLUSIONS            .......................     ......    i-ii
1.  DNTRODWCTION   .                                                                1
2. BACKGROUND                    . . .........   2
A.   Transport Sector ...........                                             2
B.  Transport Policy and Coordination 4...
3. THE RAILWAYS   ......   ...7
A.   Organization, Management, Comrercial Policy and Staff                    7
B.   Budget, Accounting and Audit ...... ...X                ...             11
C. Railway rroperty ...                               .12
D. Operatie.w               ....                                             13
E.   Traffic ......; ............... ....................   14
F.   Uneconomic Lines, Stations and Services                .                16
4. THE PLAN AND THE PROJECT.                                                 1f
A.  The Long-Term Investment Program                    . . .                16
B.  The 1972-1977 Investment Plan ...                                        17
C.  The Project and the Loan                    ....         ..              18
D.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and Disbursement.                 21
E.   Financing of the Project ...            ....................    22
F.   Memorandum cf Understanding on a Plan of Action for TCDD                22
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ....23
A. General .23
B. Evaluation of the Plan .24
C.  Quantification of Economic Benefits .25
6.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION         .... o                                           25
A.   Present Position                                                        25
B.  Future Prospects .                 ....    .             .27
7.    RECOMMENDATIONS    .        .     .     .     .........oo .................... ..oo.    29
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. D. Havlicek
(Economist), G. Lubbeke (Engineer) and M. S. flanxjltiah (Financial Analyst).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Tables
1. Traffic Data for All Modes of Traffic
2. Selected Operating Statistics 1965-1971
3.  Operatlng Efficiency and Staff Productivity
4. Motive Power and RollMiS Stock - Yearly Averages 1967-1971
S.  Freight Traffic 1964-1971 (pages 1 and 2)
6. Freight Traffic Forecast 1972-1977 and 1980 by Major Comodities
7. Passenger Traffic 1964-1971
8. Passenper Traffic Fctecast 1971-1977
9. Track Renewal Progran 1972-1982
10.  Revised Investment Prorram 1972-1977 (pages 1, 2 and 3)
11. Project Exptnditure 1972-1974 and Proposed Loan Financing
12.  Revenue, Expenses and Net Loss 1967-1971 (as reported bv TCDD)
13.  Railway Revenue, Expenses and ret Income (Loss) - Actual 1969-1971
(Reconstructed) Forecast 1972-1977
14. Balance Sheet Data - Actuala 1969-1971 and Analysis of 1971 Data
15. Summary Balance Sheet Forecast 1972-1977
16. Cash Flow Forecast 1972-1977
Annexes
1. Ilemorandun of Understanding on a Plan of Action for Transport
Coordination in Turkey, with Amendments
2. Republic of Turkey - Application to the United Nations Development
Prograr. for Technical Assistance in Special Railway (TCDD) Studies
3. Turlish Railway Organization
4. Implementation of Freight Tariff Reform - Tentative Terms of Reference
5. Present Tariff Structure and Tariff Reform
6. Description of Railway Property
7. Freight and Passenger Traffic Forecasts
8.  Memorandum of Understanding on a Plan of Action for the Turkish
Railway System (TCDD), with Amendments
9. Production of Diesel Locomotiv's by TCDD - Sumnary of Report by
Mr. A. Kniffler  Consultant
10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursemen*S
11. State of Implementation of the Plans of Action for Transport
Coordination and Turkish Railways (TCDD)
12. Economic Evaluation - Principal Assumptions
1?.  Fi.aancial Forecasts   Principal Assumptions
Maps
Average Annual Daily Traffic Volume 1969 - IBRD 10043
Turkey Railway System - IERD 3313(R)
TCDD Traffic Flows, Track Conditions and Track Renewal - IBRD 10077



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF A hAILWAY PROJECT
SUMHARY AND CONCLUSIONS
L.        This report appraises a project consisting of the first stage
(1972-1974) of the Turkish State Railways' (TCDD) long-term rehabilitatioa
and modernization program, for which a Bank loan of US$47 million is proposed.
The program is designed to transform TCDD from a rapidly deteriorating rail-
way systea, operating with large and increasing deficits, into an efficieut
and comercially viable enterprise.
ii.       At the request of Government, the Bank has been in contact with
TCDD stnce 1969. Poor and inadequate investments over the last decades,
we'ut -P.agement, antiquated coimercial policies and road competition con-
t-ibuted to the decline of TCDD and threaten an orderly and safe continua-
tion of its operations. Llttle has been done up to now to reverse Oild;
pattern, but Government and TCDD have recognized that a major and determined
effort is required to improve TCDD's physical, competitive and financial
position. TCDD has been operating in growing deficit since 1959 and, in
1971, working expenses amounted to twice the operating revenues. Staff
costs doubled in the period 1967-1971 while tariffs declined in real terms.
Nevertheless, even with the rapid arowth of road transport, an efficient
railway system is vital to the economy of Turkey, especially for the long
distance transport of bulk commodities. The country's agricultural and
mining production and industrial growth promises substantial increases of
TCDD's bulk traffic, ideally suited to low cost transport by rail.
iiI.      The project, estimated to cost about US$223 million, forms part of
TCDD's US$541 million 1972-1977 Investment Plan in which track rehabilitation.
dieselization and railway reforms are the focal points.  The project takes
Into account the Government's limited resources for local currency financing
and it constitutes the minimum outlay necessary to achieve the objective
referred to in paragraph i. The main items of the project include renewal
of track (27%), provision of motive power and rolling stock (39%), improve-
ment of naintenance and repair facilities for motive power and rolling stock
(8%), training facilities and consultants' services (0.5%) and signalling,
telecommunications and other miscellaneous equipment (10%), with a conting-
ency allowance of 16%. The proposed loan would finance track equipment,
materials and track works, signalling and telecommunication equipment, im-
ported materials for the manufacture of freight cars and passenger coaches,
machinery and tools for locomotive depots and workshops, training abroad,
training facilities and consultants' services. it would contain US$37 mil-
lion to finance imported equipment and material to be procured through in-
ternational competitive b±iding and US$10 million of local currency expendi-
ture. Some items to be procured locally would be unsuited for international



- ii-
bidding. Some US$16.1 million for the import of components for the manu-
facture of diesel locomotives until be financei By the LurOpea.zi
lnvestmen~. Bank; US$1.2 million would come from a French bilateral credit.
The balance of US$158.5 million would be provided by the Turkish Gcvernment
since TCID is unable to contribute to the financing of the project.
œv.       The Investment Plan covers only the phvsical aspect of the r'oderni-
axtion and rehabilitation of TCDID. It is complemented by a Plan of Action
for Railway Development specifying time-phased improvements to be achieved,
coamensurate with the physical progress of the Plan, through reductions of
traff by attrition. improvements in TCDD's organization and corporate planning,
introduction "f a eompetitive cost-related pricing policy, and study of and
,i:tion on uneconomic lines, stations and services.  Furthermore, provision
hias been nae i l the proposed Bank loan for consultants' assistance in execut-
ini various prograns critical to the success of the Investment Plan and the
Plan of Action for Railway Developit.nt. In addition, financial assistance
has been obtained from UNDP for sttdies concerning specific aspects of the
?ian of Action.
V.        Turkey lacks a consistent transport policy and a coordinated plan
or the integrated development of the transport sector as a whole. Decision
-.Iiinl concerning transport matters is uncoordinated and is dispersed among
r >- various t;overnnent bodies. A Plan of Action for Transport Coordination
ad tbe establishmen 3f a Transport Coordination Agency (TCA), agreed upon
ul 1970 between the Bank, Govenmer't and TC'jD, was intended to form the basis
fer further Paak involve.ment in the trarsport sector.  After a promising
Ft,irt TCA ceased to function in Dccember '971. MIwever, in recognition of
t'ie importance of coordlnated decision making in the transport sector, Gov-
vrnment has reestablished the TCA in the Ministrv of Communications and
equipped it with the authority and personnel necessary to carry out its
lunctions.
vi.       The project, as defined in the report, has a sound tecinical and
econoTmic justification. The rehabilitation program has an economic returr
.o at least 16%. Principal benefits would come from avoided costs of diverting
-iil traffic to highway transport and, reduced railway working costs.  TCDD's
incial pc)3ltion is also expected to improve progressively from a working
m tio or over 200 in 1971 to about 100 in 1978, with the execution of the
Thvestrnent Plan and the Plan of Action.
vii.      Although the project would contribute a great deal toward moderniz-
t' - and rehabilitating TCDD, imuch more remains to be done over the next five
ti ten years to complete the railway's physical and financial recovery and
'::i1 about the necessary reforms. By 1978, TCDD would still be unable to
,ver all its operating expenses and could make no contribution toward ray-
-. :'t of interest. Considerable financial assistance by Government and its
,',ter-njation to carry out the necessary reforms would still be needet'.
Vili.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan to TCDD of US$47 million
enuivalent for a term of 25 years, including a grace period of five years.



TUKEYr -
APPRAISAL OF A RAILIHAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Turkish State Railways has asked the Bank for a loan of USS47
million. The loan, the second to Turkey for the transport sector, would help
to finance part of the foreign exchange cost (US$37 million) and part of tie
local cost (US$10 million) during the 1973-1974 period of TCDD's 1972-1977
Investment Plan. A loan for a port project was made in 1950. TCDD's Lotal
investments during the period of the Investment Plan will amount to about
US$541 million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$157 million.
1.02      Surveys to establish proper guidelines for future administration
and planning of development for the transport sect. and the railways of
Turkey were completed by consultants, ITALCONSULT, in mid-1971: I/ they wer'
financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agent. Several Bank identifica-
tion and preappraisal missions had visited Turkey in 1970-72 and arising otut
of recommendations of these surveys, and discussions between Government and
the Bank, Memoranda of Understanding on Plans of Action for Transport Coordi-
nation and for the Turkish Railway System were agreed between Government,
TCDD and tie Bank. A tentative long-term inrestment program for the reha-
bilitation of TCDD was also drawn up. These agreements are intended to form
the basis for Bank involvement in the Turkish transport sector. Major ob-
jectives of the agreements are the achievement of an improved Government
organization for comprehensive transport planning and physical end financial
rehabilitation and modernization for TCDD. Agreement on TCDD's 1972-1977
Investment Plan, which forms part of Turkey's Second and Third Five-Year
Development Programs has been reached.
1.03      There was somp progress in implementing the Memoranda of Under-
standing, e.g. in the area of staff reduction and revisi0n of TCDD's financial
relatiorship with the Treasury, but it was disappointing overall.  Tterefore,
the Bank requested in a letter of June 8, 1972 to Goverunert and TCDE satis-
factory evidence of progress, before negotiations of the proposed loan, in
such areas as transport coordination, selective tariff increases, adequate
budget support in 1973-1974 of TCDD's investment plan, review of new line
construction, prompt issuance of import licenses for railway equipment, and
the reorganization of TCDD's Research, Coordination and Pl-nning Department.
Satisfactory action has now been taken by Government and TCDD in all of the
areas mentioned above.
1/   Railroad Studies, Rome, February 1971 and Transport Coordination
Serviced in Turkey, Rome, July 1971.



1 .04     The physical and financial rebabilitt-tion of TCDD will be a lengthy
and difficult process for Government and TCDD in view of the necessary reforms
And the reqt'ired radical changes In muanagement attitudes and methods. The
proposed project would constitute only a first step in a long-term effort to
reverse the persistent deterioration of the railway's operations and finances
and to engure that TCDD will not continue to default ont Its proper role in the
Turkish economy. Close supervision of project implementation will be necessary.
1.05      This report is based on (a) TCMD's 1972-1977 Investment Plan: (b)
~Hemoranda of Understanding on a Plan of Action for Transport Coor..ination in
Turkey aid a Plan of Action far the Turkish Railway System; (ec) findings of
an appratsal m-ission to Turkey in March/April 1972, consisting of D. Hawlicek
(economist), A. Kniffler (consultant on dieselization), G. I-'zbbeke (engineer).
and M. S. ':Thniundiah (fin-ancial analyst), (d) data provided by three consult-
ants' repor,cs V/ and (e) a prenegotiation mission to Turkey in September, 1972.
2.  BACKO1O=
A. Transport Sector
(i)  2eneral
2.01      The rpyid econol   c growth of the Tlrkiah economy, avTraging a
growth rate of GDP in real terms of 6.5% annually since 1963, has led to a
transporlt demand rsing by about venmn annually. Passenger transport has in-
creased by about 1c.5% p.a., angd freight transport by about 14% p.a. The
dypoamic performance of the economy, projected to grow at a rate of about 7%
p.a. in real terms, is expected to continue during the Third Five-Year Devel-
opment Plan- (1973-1977) 2/. As part of this gro-.'th. total transpert demand
is expected to continue to increase by about 9%-10de      annually.
2.02      The share of capital formation in thetrabisport sector in relation
to total Capital formation was 14% in the First Five-Year Development Plan
(1963-1967) and is estimated at 16% for the Second Five-Year R avelopment Plan
(1968-1972). 3/  Both figures are low when compared with those of other
countries  A. The enphasis of public transport investment during the First
and Second Five-Year Development Plans was on upgrading of the existing road
1/   ITALCONSUtT, Railway Studies February 1971 and Transport Coordination
Sez-,ices in Turkey. July 1971; Davies and Robson, Implementation of
Tariff Scheme, February 1971.
2/   Report  1MA-53a (Turkey), September 18, 1972.
3/   The invcntmtens referred to here include public and private Investment.
4/   Mexico, 1939-50, 27%s; India, 1951-56, 20%.



-3-
network to meet the needs of rapidly growing road traffic while railway in-
vestment was not sufficient to stop the progressive deterioration of plant
and equipment 1/. Development of a more balanced investment program in the
transport sector was haupered by institutional weaknesses concerning invest-
ment policy (para. 2.12), the lack of local investment funds, and foreign
currency constraints.
2.03      Th  masin focus of the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1973-1977)
will be the achievement of a better distribution of investments and a com-
plementary improves-ent of policy making and planning in the transporr secto-.
Much emphasis will be given to the physical and financial rehabilitation and
overall modernization of c}e railway to enable it to function successfully
in the competitive envirornient and to fulfill its future role in the cecnomy
(para. 2.09). The principal functions of the pre i'ed loan are to support
this rehabilitation and to contribute to the imprt 'ment of decision aaking
in the travp-ort sector.
(ii)  The Transoort System
2.04      The development of traffic in each mode, as shown 'n Table 1, ienon-
strates that the railway has lost Its dominant role as a general carrier in
the transport sector.  Between 1960 and 1970, the railwav s share in freight
transport has declined from 55% to 25A. The share of road transport in total
freight carried increased from 43% in 1960 to 740 in I97n. In absolute teri.is,
railway freight traffic increased bv about 24%, compared with an increase in
road traffic of 370%.  Passenger traffic decreased in both absolute and
relative terms.
2.05      Statistical analysis suggests that the reversal of the relative
importance of the two modes can be attributed to the fact that (a) the struc-
ture of the Turkish economy is becoming industrially oriented with emphasis
on the development of light arnd heavy industries end (b) economic growth Is
centered around major cities (Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir and Adana), thus genera-
ting primarily short-haul general goods traffic more favorable to road trans-
port. Rail traffic, which is generally more competitive in transport of
bulk commodities over long distances, participated only marginally in the
expansion of the economy, reflecting the less rapid expansion of the ag:icirl-
tural and aining sectors.
2.06      The capacity and quality of Turkey's road netuork is generally
adequate to meet present levels of non-bulk transport demand over short and
medium distances. The length of surfaced national and provincial roads has
increased by 12% in the 1960-1970 period from 42,000 km te 48,000 km and the
namber of motor vehicles per km of road more than doubled from 2.7 to 6.3.
Road traffic is very unevenly distributed witlh about 70% (1969) concentrated
in the major centers of industry in Turkey (Htap IBRD 10043).  Due to strin::ent
import policies, the vehicle fleet is over-aged.
1/   Investment in :iihways was about 60% of public transport investment
compared with 20% for railways.



-4-
Z.07      Turkey operates seven major ports for international trade.  Traffic
in these ports increasee by about 58? oter the past eight years (1963-1971).
2.08      There are two inte;national alrports, 15 civil airports for dobestic
traffic and three military airports which are used for scheduled domestic air
traffic. The airport infrastructure is, by and large, adequate.
(iii) Future of the Railways
2.09      The railtay carries a large volume of iron ore and other bulk cou-
mo'ities on its trunk lines over average distances of more than 400 km. More-
over, extensive industrialization schemes will depend on the railway's abil-
ity to msove raw r.aterials over long distances. This trafflc represents about
70t of total railway freight trafeic and analysis suggests 1/ that it can
be moved more economically by rail (paras. 3.26, 3.27, 5.07 and 5.08) than
by any other mode. While there is a clear econoric role for TCDD's trunk
lines, the economic potential and the coI,petitiveness of about 30% of the
railway network and of som1e services is doubtful, and their rationalization
or abandounment will be studied by consultants (para 3.31).
t.  Transport Policy and Coordination
(i) Transport Policy
2.'0      Ir. order to help achieve Turkey's economic and social objectives,
the Turkish Govermnent formulated, in the Second Five-Year Development Plan
(1968-1972) an action program for the transport sector omphasizing inter-
modal competitioct under eqtul, conditions; setting of rates and fares above
marginal costs; and modernizatton of plant and equipment, andI organization
of state transport enterprises and their management according to commercial
criteria.  However, t.e planned comprehensive reform of the sector has noted
been implemented, mainly because of the lack of adrministrative coordination
aA.d the dispersion of authority among various Covernment agencies.
2.11      There are at present some twelve ministries or specialized Govern-
ment agencies dealing with policy, planning, pric'Lig and operational manage-
ment in the sectcr. The Ministry of Public hWorks (MPW), the Ministry of
Transport and Commvnications, the State Planning Organization (SPO) and the
Ministry of Finance are the principal bodies dealing with transport planning,
investment and policy matters. Althoughi the Ministry of Transport and Com-
munications has a broad statutory authority over the sector, most of its
efforts are limited to supervising the state transport enterprises due to
its organizational structure and shortage of qualified personnel. The State
Planning Organization has, in tthe past, assumed the task of formulating a
national transport policy, but no ministry has felt re.ponsible fox implenent-
ing it. Coordination of projects and establishment of project priorities on
a national level is the responsibility of SPO in conjur.ction vith the Ministry
I/   ITALCONSULT, Transport Coordination Services in Turkey, Rome, July 1971.



of Finance.  BcfLre being submitted to Parliament for approval, the invent-
sent proposols must be approved by tise High Planning Council and the Council
of Ministers.
2.12      There are thus a number of deficiencies with respect to the transport
investment planning procedures; they exist on the modal, :ector and natiosia.
levels.  DecIsion naalng in Investment planning is dfsorgantred and dlspersed
smong different agencies, none of which plan on the basis of comprehensive
information on the vh.ole transport sector. Consequently, they are rnt able
to assess their planned Investment in the context if alternative passIbilities
t' achleve the objective of Government's sLated transport and economic policy.
2.13      As concerns railways, the Hinistry of fublic Vorks is responsibl-
for the planning and execution of new line construction wo2ks and the ?'inIs-
try of Transport and Conmunicatcons has flial authority over all otlher invest-
ments.  Although Coveriwent agreed in the  lc-.orandum of. Understanding on .
Plan of Action for TCDD (Annec 8, VII) that new conrtruction projects to bc
carried out for TCDD by HPW would be started only after etwiprehensive teoehn-D
cal, financial and economic studies showied them to  e .justified, budget aptaoo-
priations have been made for 1972 to hegin thle constructioli of a shortctt fra,fr
Tecer to Kangal on the Cetinkaya-^ ivrigi line (Hap IBRI) 3313 P,). iowever,
Government has confirmed that construction of the T-cer-Kangal shortcut wIl- 
not start until the envisaged UNDP feasibillty study has been completed (par.a
4. 18).
(il)  Transport Coordination
(a)  Transport Coordination Agencv
2.14      Following a UNDP transport sector and railroad study, of which thtI_
Bank was the executing agency, Governmen' decided, iii close cooperation wit:7
the Eank, to set up a Transport Coordination Agency (TCA).  In its initia!
phase, it was to be attached to the State Planning Organization and later,
after a comprehensive reorganization of the Ministry of Transnort and Comn-
munications, to be Incorporated within that ministry.  The Agency, ',icl- in
its initial ;hase was described aa the "Transport Cooreination Project Centvr-
(TCPC), was set un in early 1970. It was to be enrowwer-d by Goverruent with
"'general authority for the coordination of all Government actions relatinm to
new investments, rates, fares, user e%arges, taxation and regulation in the
transport sector." t/  In Aue,ust 1970, Covernment an(I the Ban! agreed on a
'lemorandum of Understanding concerning a Plan of Action for Transport Coordinr.-
tion in Turkey (Annex 1). This established a time-phased action plan for rhe
formation and location of the TCPC and its initial program of work. After a
1/   Article IV, Section 4.14 of Plan of Operation for the UNOP-finnnce'!
Transport Coordination and Railwray Study, signed between Government
and the Bank as executing agency or. March 3, 19969, and approved by
decree No. 6/12253. dated July 28, 1969, of the Council of Ministers.
and publirhed in Government Gazette No. 13298, dated Sertemb2r 11,
1969.



-6-
promising start, however, TC!C c2ased to function in DNcember 1971 because
(a) Government decided to deemphasize the central policy-making and planning
role which the State Planning Organization had assumed in the course of its
.existence, tb) TqPC was relocated first to the Ministry of Coonunications 1/
and, after tne intervcntiotL of  tte Minister *f Public 1l'orks, to that Ministry 2/
(nd (c) other ministries did not cooperate with TC'IC to the ex?mnt necessary.
As a result of the uncertainty rerarding the agency's location wthin the Cov-
*:x).int  and i.ts aitrhority reyarding transport coordination, many qualified
experts have lef t.
2.15      Goveriment has now located the TCA in the Ministry of Communica-
tions.  Agrec-' nt has been reached during negotiations on TCA's authority
and functions. As regards staffing of Such an agency, approval Is to be
sou;, it for a staff of about 60. In addition, Covernment has agreed to
extend and anlpLy to TCA in its :ew location the authority it enjoyed under
SPa to h£re staff on a contract basis. During negotiations, r revised plan
of action on transport coordination, reflectinF the chAnges riertioned above,
wa's agreed 'ipon andt its timing was revised (Annex 1).
(b)  UsEl  Charges and Other Government Measures Concetxin'
the Transport Markct
,.If,   A nrelir;narv study performed in 1971 by TCP  showed that the gen-
-ral level of road. user charges seennd adequate to meet construction, nain-
:-'uance and renei,al teeds.  Howiever, tha distribution of road USf r charges
seened t, se b5ased in favor of trucks, particularly haavy trucks, and the
½evel of the fixed and variable comprnent of road user charges apparently
:avcred the rete-ti3n of obsolete vehicles.  It is not clear to what extent
--e svstem of tax.atian and other charges in the transport sector conforms
-;ith the principle oi equality of treatment of each mode.  This matter was
to be investigated by TCPC, which was expected to reconmend necessary changes.
dlowever, because of the interruption of work in TCPC, nothing has been done
vet in this respect.
2.17      Government decided in 1971 3/ that, in compensation f,r the alleged
-nequality of competition between road and rail. the ra'lway's annual track
- r.ewal, mainternance and repair expenditure would be met by Government (para.
6.03). !lowever, since no conclusive studies are yet available establishing
t:e extent of such inequality, Government's decision to subsidize part of the                       --
railway's expenditure can Fe accepted only as a terporary solution; it does
not solve the problem of price distorticns l., the competitive relationship
betreen road and rail.  The Government intends to pursue this matter further
1/   By resolution No. 4 of the ligh Planning Council, dated February 9, 1972.
9 1    By resolution No. 11 of Tarci s, 1'7-.
Law 1381.



-7-
and has Included in TCA's work programs as a priortity item inter alia studies
on the adequacy of user charges in all transport modes (Annex 1).  Further-
more, the need for subsidising TCDD's track renewal, maintenance and repair
expenditure will be reviewed annually by Government.
2.18      Government agreed in 1970 to study _/ the adverme economic effects
of various import restrictions on transport equipment replacement (para. 2.06)
and possibly modify its import policy, where appropriate, in the transport
sector. Such studies will now be conducted by the TCA (Annex ,). Regarding
import of railroad equipment, the Bank has received confirmation from Ociv-
ernment that all necessary import licenses for items included in the project
will be issued promptly upon TCDD's requwst.
3. TInE RAILWAYS
-A.  Organizations Management. Commercial Policy and Staff
(1)  organization
3.01      TCDD, an autonomous state economic enterprise, is owned by Govern-
ment and regulated by Law 6186 of July 1953. The provhions of Law 440
concerning. state economic enterprises also apply to the railway. 2/ The
linistry of Transport and Cormunications supervises TCDD on behalf of the
Government. TCDD is also subject to financial, administrative and technical
control by the High Control Board, a Government auditing body responsible
to the Prime Minister. Government's approval is required for such items as
investment plans, annual operating accounts, and tariffs which are considered
of national importance.
3.02      TCDD presently aexinisters five =ajor ports.  The ports and rail-
way orgaikizations are separated, however, and a bill is pending in Parliament
to consolidate TCDD's ports under the management of the State taritime Bank.
TCDD also constructs rolling stock and locomotives in three factories 3/.
The production part of the Eskisehir factory was tentatively organized in
1971 as a separate enterprise under TCDD control (para. 4.02) and, pending
experience gained with the reorganization of Eskisehir, the remaining two
factories will also be organized into separate enterprises.
3.03      The present TCDD organization lacks, particularly at the middle
management level, a clear definition of responsibilities, so that lines of
11   Plan of Action for Transport Coordination, Annex 1, para VII.
2/   Law governing the establishment, management and control of State
Economic Enterprises, Establisinents and Participations.
3/   Adapazari, Sivas, Eskisehir.



authority are vague and duties are sometimes duplicated. rurthermore, co-
ordination amnorg dliiferent departments and even within the same department
is lacking and, consequently* the flowi of information to top management io
of ten in~coherent atnd conitradictory. TCDD management has recognized this
weakness tn its organizational setup and, in 1971, established a reorganita-
tion corpittee, consisting of 25 of its senior officers, to review and submit
recommendations for streamlining and improvement to the Director General
and the Reorganization Committee of thec SP'(.  In addition, TCDD requested
the assistance ofrorganization experts.  Such assistante w$4Il be provided
by a proposed UIDP technical assistance program to -TVDD (Antnex 2). A ch-Art
of the present TCDD org~anization is attached as Annex 3.
(ii) ~4ananemaent
3.04      The highest manag,erial bodies of t:he TCDD are the Board of Direc-
tors, consisting of six r.embers, and the Director General, Wwo Is assisted
by four Deputy Directors General. The Director General, who is Chairoma of
the Board, and a TCDD staff representative are ex-officio members of the
Board. The other four members, two of whom are Deputy Directors General of
TCDD, are avnpointed bry the Cabinet. The Board determines all railway policy.
The Director General is the chief executive officer of the TCDD, and he is
appointed or dismissed by the Cabiner upon proposal of the Minister of Com-
munications.
3.05      There are some major weal:nesses In the railwav management:
(a) Deciston -.aakinr is centralized with top ranagement in
headquarters, which makes it a tine consuming and in-
flexible process and adversely affects middle management's
identitication with t!te organization's objectives.
(b) The whole area of civil engineering, particularly permian-
ent way, signalling and telecommunication works, is not
adequately represented and coordinated by a Deputy
,Ceneral Manager with expertise in this field; this., in
view of the major investments envisaged in the area, poses
a difficult problem. Furthermore, there are problems
concerning thie ability of the Permanent Way Department staff
to organize and execute the track renewal and signalling
programs, which substantially exceed any program executed
in the past.
(c)  TCDD's Research, Planning and Coordination Depairtment is
not presently performing the functions envisaged in the
Plan of Action for TCDD. Planning activities are still
widely dispersed among the different departments and not
sufficientlv coordinated. The planning unit is not staffed
adequately.



3.06      To deal with the precedilog problems, t:he following action has been
(a)  The envisaged MMTl-financed trangement~ and r,"nizAtio'n
study (par.. 3.03) will, in conjunctior with T'"Of's ovn
studies In tttls atea, result in recoiuxnendtioms for stream-
lining TCTD*s orgenization.
(b)  For the period of the project execution, two consultants
satisfactory to the Bank will be engaged for periodic
assictoacce totalling about nine uan-months to monitor the
orgatnizAtion and execution of the track renewal and sig-
mailing pr-gram. As for the problem of adequate repre-
aentation and coordination of all civil egcineering
activities, the envisaged UNJW management and rearganiza-
tion study (vide Item (a)) will mak-e pertinent proposalsn for
a satisfac-tory solution.
(c)  The Research, Planning and Coordination 11'partment '%as been
strengthened with qualified personinel and riven the tespon-
sibility for formulating measures and controllina, the in-
plmentnation of corporate planning in accordance with the
pollicis established by TCDD*s management..
(ii)  Commercial Policy
3.07      The railway's conm~erclal policy is still based on the arttltude that
rail transport is a public service rather than a produict that must be sold in
a competitive environment.  CNality of service is poor, n-anifesting itself
inter alia in cumbersome dispatching procedures, thie lack, of a collection and
delivery service, and lack, of tonfidence by shippers that zoods entrusted to
the rallway vill reach the customter In a reasonable t!mr. ?oreover, the *re-
sent frelght tariff system is too rigid to allow the railway to compete suc-
cessfully with road transport. Its structure is complicated and related
neither to the costs of moving the different tyve  oftaf nr to wat
- pe  of tra fr+ ,*no
the competition  .i.l allow.  In 1968, T.undertook a studv throuph con-
sultants 1/ concerning possibilities of modernizing the railwav's commercial
policy and the adoption of appropriate freight tariffs. The consultants'
recommendations included (a) introduction of a new commercially-or iented,
cost-related priting system: (b) introduction of a costing, system. for pric-
ing; (e) proposals for the Improvement of the quality of service; and (d)
proposals for improvement of TCDD's marketing efforts. Dlue to the unfamil-
iarity of some of TCDD's executives with modern manegement methods and, coot-
sequently, a reluctance by management to implement the sweeping changes pro-
posed by the consultants, the Board decided, pending further action on a
reform of TCDfsl traffic costing methods, to continue current commercial
Davies and Robson, Implementation of Tariff Scheme. Ankara, February 1971.



- 10 -
policies.  In doing so, TCDD deprived itself not only of a valuable manage-
ment tool, but also of a considerable additional traffic potential. The
consultants estimated that application of a more commercially-oriented Lariff
system in conjunction with improved quality of service could have led to the
transfer to rail of up to four million tons of road-borne traffic in 1971,
resulting in additional revenies of about TL 250-300 million annually.
3.08      It will be crucial for TCDD's rehabilitation and financial viability
not only to improve the services offered, but also to sell these services,
through a vigorous commercial effort, at competitive and cost-related tariffs
(para. 6.07). Therefore, agreement has been reached during negotiations that
qualified consultants acceptable to the Bank will be engaged as soon as pos-
sible to help implement, either as recommended or in a modified form, the
existing preposals concerning (a) int.oduction of a costing system for pricing,
(b) a freight tariff reform, and (c) improvements in the quality of service.
It is estimated that the consultants will start their work before the proposed
loan becomes effective. Therefore, provision has been made for retroactive
financing of US$100,000.  An outline for the consultants' Tr:f c:'Re:reicc.
agreed upon during negotiations, is given as Annex 4.  Details of the present
tariff structure and the proposed tariff reform are presented as Annex 5.
3.09      Although under Article 24 of Law 440 TCDD is "free to determine the
prices of their goods and .i-..rvi,., 'GV' r','t i' tnt ... st r;:.icc1: ,rrK'.
all of TCDD's rates and fares.  This adversely affected TCDD's ability to
react ;i.ore flexibly and effectively to changes in its competitive environment.
Government haF now agreed to allow TCDD to determine its own commercial and
pricing policy.
(iv) Staff
3.10      TCDD's staff numbered about 63,200 1/ in 1969.  Following dis-
cussions with the Bank and the signing of the "emorandum oS Understanding
(Annex 8) TCDD made a reduction, through attrition, of about 2,900 staff
in 1970/71. Further progress is expected up to 1975, when the overall tar-
get of an additional reduction of about 2,000 is to be achieved. 1uring
ne'ootiations, agreement was reached with TCDD that, by mid-1973, a time-
phased, detailed program of staff reduction and redeplovment will be pre-
pared in accordance with the modernization program included in the Invest-
ment Plan.
3.11      There is a shortage of gualified senior engineering and commercial
s:aff and it is dlfficult to attract highly qualified manpower for all levels
of .,anagement becatuse (a) promotions are made alnost entirely according to
seniority rather than on meri-; and (b) salarirs, which follow Government
pay scales, are too low compared with those of private industry with which
TCDD has to comtpete for qualified manpower. The high turnover of qualified
1/   Excluding staff in TCDD's production shops.



- 1 1 -
junior executives is a further problem. In order to assure retention of
qualified executive alent and enhance prospects for career development TCDD
will, within existing laws and regulations pay, to highly qualified executivts
of all management levels, salaries comparable with those for similar positions
in the private sector. Agreement was reached during negotiations that by nc',
later than June 1973 TCDD wi'l make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank on
career training.
3.12      Supplementary tr.Aning abroad of TCDD operational and enginecritw
staff at the executive level is etivisaged to help expedite the introduction
of modern management techniques. The staff to benefit from such training
will be selected by TCDD and will spend periods ranging up to one year in
railway administrations abroad.  Overall about 60 ma-;e,t ' p.a. are planr:cd
for training abroad. During negotiations an assurance was obtained from '2)P
that the selection of candidates for training abroad will be made in cons'. -
tation with the Bank. With regard to medium and lower level staff, provisioi.
has been made in the investment plan and the proposed loan for a ne: rai1.i
training center in Ankara, which will provide training in the technical ani
commercial fields.
B. Budget. Accounting and Audit
3.13      Uhen TCDD was set up as a state economic enterprise in 1953, it
had an initial (Government) capital of TL 2.5 billion, and, since 1964, ha-
been governed by Law 440, affording it some commercial autonomy.  Its fins. 
are therefore separate from Government. TCDD is not subject to legal prov-
sions concerning general GoverTnmental accounting, state purchase, sales co--
tracts, public bids and the control of the court of accounts. 1/  It is  ;'-
required to pay any dividend or interest charges on the Governrent capital.
3.14      TCDD prepares annual operating and investment budi:ets.  The oper.
ting budget is finalized by the Board of Management, although it is also
considered by the Ministrv of Communications and the HiPh Control Board,
particularly since the question of covering the operating deficit must be
considered by Government. Budget procedures adopted by TCDD arc generally
satisfactory.
3.15      TCDD's published accounts lArorporate rhie vorkinsn restults of the
railway and the rolling stock manufacturing units and ports under TCDD rnanii': -
ment (para. 3.02). However, detailed accounts for these are available sep-
arately. TCDD should, in the future, publish separate accounts for the ports
it controls; this was apreed during negotiations. The railway accounts are
generally well maintained. Certain accounting and statistical operations,
including payments to personnel, administration of stocls, passenr'er traffit
statistics and computations relative to the invested capital and depreci.-
tion are processed mechanically. Extension of mechanization to cover freight
craffic statistics, cost computations and such is being planned.
1/   State auditing agency.



- 12
3S1 6     The depreciation provision !s made at rates fixed in 1PAl by a
Special commissicn (all fixed assets including trac' and road bed are de-
preciated) and the average annual provision now amounts to about 3.9% of the
book value of the f'xed assets.  A revaluation of the fixed assets, however,
is needed.  The depreciation rates charged also need review-, since the pre-
sent assumed life of passenger and freight cars is too high anid the assumed
yes of some uther cntegories of assets are lox (e.g., motor co ,ches 10
'O:1r5, ea isignalling and teleconmmicat!on install:ttions, 1i ye-.rs). Agree-
!ent wis re';d during negotiatiors re-2;irdin>, revaluation of assets and re-
view,t of depreciation rates by Dcce'ber 31, 1974.
3.17      Under the prevalling Turklsh law, the High Control Board presently
examines TCPD's accounts evsi-v year and  iubmi,t.s a general report to Parliament.
lit oixesticn o; inde,endent audit of TCDD's accounts was discussed during ne-
;,otiati'ons.  it wTis agreed that inspectors of the Treasury would undertake
thLe audit, b11t the Bank would review the rnrocedures, qualifications of staff
:s-.igned etc. If the review indlcates t!,e need for further action to provide
a satisfactorv independent audit e.z. modification and adaption of procedures,
*i:iining of stiff assigned or any other steps, this will be discussed with
j')ernme.nt so thst action s..tisfactorv to the Bank is taken.
r-l:~a., Pron.ertv
.1 IR9    A description of railwav trr&!' structure, equipment and other prop-
.i  -rc-ented in AnCnx i.  1'!e  uir"iqh riilwav networl coonrises about
^,'OU route-kl OF standard >aue  (1.435 -T.) tracK, of which 7,8(0 km is in
.;ia, and th;c rer;ainder, linked by the Bospherus train ferry, connects
Ista.lbul with Bulsaria and Creoce.  Suburran lines in Istanbul are electrified
:v double tracled, and extensions, including  the suburban lines of Ankara
u:n Iznir, are inT hand.  Much of th e networP traverses rough and mountainous
;errain an(' is 4l!-aPanted to carry heavy :raff`c at desirable speeds.
3.19      Trac! is generally in pocr condition, and serious arrrars of track
rcnewal have been allowed to accumulate, with the result that rail breakage
-~nd derailments occur with intolerable trequency.  :hile the major part of
''CD's telecommunication syster is adequate, signallinp systems are primitive
. "    ;;.  but tke suhurban services and the main line between llavdarpasa, Ankara
,n(I Kayas (i;) kn) and are a severe hindrance to efficient operation.  TCDD
- in the process of replacine stcar by diesel traction, but about 70% of
,rain haulage is undertaken by about 800 steam locomotives, 300 of which are
ovcr 35 years old. Availability of steam locomotives is poor at about 72%
mun  is likely to deteriorate further before replacement can be effected by
new diesel locomotives. Between 1954 and 1968, TCDI) imported 47 main line
and 59 shunting diesel locomotives of various types.
3.20      In 1968, TCDD decided to manufacture diesel motive power locally
under license with German and French firrs.  By the end of 1971, five shunters
19 main line locomotives had been producer in TCDD's workshops, with
E_,tisfactory results. Existing- plans provide ior the renlacement of all



- 13 -
steam traction, additionally requiring about 520 main line and 120 shunting
locomotives to be manufactured, over a period of about 12 years (para. 4.02).
3.21      Apart from electric suburban stock, TCDD owns 1,343 passenger
coaches, 822 of which are in gcod condition. The renainder, all over 33
years old, have reached the end of their economic life, and about half should
be scrapped as soon as possible.  Freight wagons number 16,000 of all types;
3,000, over 40 years old, must soon be withdrawn from service and replaced
by modern wagons of higher capacity.
D. Operations
3.22      Selected operating statistics are given in Table 2; operating
efficiency and staff productivity are shown in Table 3; and number and
availability of motive power and rolling stock are shown in Table 4. The
system is reasonably well operated, taking into consideration the serious
deficiencies of TCDD's physical properties (paras. 3.18 to 3.21 and Annex k).
The main problems for TCDD's operations are:
(a)  Shortage of motive power, largely because of the poor condition
of the aging fleet of steam locomotives and the increasing
difficulty of adequate maintenance (Annex 6).
(b) Poor track conditions and alignment on several lines which
impose speed restrictions.
(c) Obsolete or even non-existent signalling and interlocking,
and the non-existence of electric line block, which also
impose speed restrictions, slow down operations and reduce
line capacity.
(d) Obsolescence of freight wagon stock.
Banking for steam hauled trains is necessary on sections of routes totalling
about 1,000 kn due to steep gradients through mountainous country. This is
one of the reasons for the low speed of trains hauled by steam loconotives.
On some sections, banking is required even for trains hauled by diesel
locomotives.
3.23      In spite of these impediments interfering with operations, the
efficiency and productivity ratios shown in Table 3 are generally satis-
factory. Thev compare fairly well with those of other railway systems of
similar traffic density, except for the low average speed of goods trains,
and the deteriorating turn-around time of freight wagens, which will improve
as a result of the execution of the investment program. The availability of
motive power and rolling stock, other than freight cars, is unsatisfactory.
Operating targets for 1974 should be based on the steady increase in the
number of diesel locomotives in service, and the scrapping of the older steam
locomotives whose availability is lowest. This should result in an increase
of availability of diesel locomotives from the 1971 figure of 78.4% to 85%.



- 14 -
Availability of steam locomotives in 1971 was 71.7Z .  Scrapping of at least
200 of the oldest steam locomotives should be possible bv late 1974, and
availability of the remaining steam fleet should be improved to at least 75%.
During the period 1973/74, train speeds cannot be cxpected to show general
improvenent since speed restrictions eliminated by track renewals and signal-
ling improvements will be offset by others caused bv work in progress on the
line. Specific operating targets, set out in Annex 8, were agreed during
..egotiatiops.
E. Traffic
(i) General
3.24       The 1970 traffic flow in gross ton-l4  per km of line is shown in
Man IBRD 10077. About 60% of TCDD's traffic is concentrated on 30% of tne
no twor';.  About 30% of TCDD's network has vcry low densitv trafflr (para.
3.31).  The backbone of the railwa- system is the 'line leading fron: Istanbul
thirough the central part of the Anatolian plain v-±d Arnkara to the iron ore
-.nes around Divrigi and to the two steel mills on the Black Sea coast.  A
s;ibstantial increase of traffic is expected between Divrigi and Iskenderun
on the southern 'lediterranean coast of Turkey with the operation in 1975 of
a third steel mill.
(ii) Freight Traffic
3. z5      Revenue carning traffic increased by 31,' In terms of ton-km  in the
period 1964-1f'71  (157 in terms of tons).  This comnared unfavora"lv with road
traffic growth, which more than doubled.  The slotp growth of TCDD's freight
t-afic  can be exn lained by the below  average growth by 27," in real GDP in
')611-1Q71 of the arricultural and mining sectors, the railvav's most iriportant
customers, -iereas road traffiL benefited mainlv from  the ranid development
o- light industries.  Freight traffic statistics for t'iv  vonr- 1O('L-1971 are
,,iven in Table 5.
3.26       Bull: traffic is the baclrbone of TCDD's busiress, having accountedl
for about 70% of the railway's total freight transport (ton-kmi) and 60% of
t-l Frei:ht revenues in 1971.  Ores (iron ore, chrome and others), coal
.nd cereals constitute TCDD's most i-mportant bul!, freigh!t traffic, accountinr
for over 5x' of total ton-kem in 1970 (Table 5).  Transport of general goods
s .c') as building material, machines and equipment, and consucer goods (30% of
LOt:1I ton-i::'i in 1971) rematned about static in the period 1964-1971, indicat-
ini: that only road traffic benefited fro-m tile increased production and consump-
t*on of these cormodities.
3.27       Substantial structural changes are expected for future traffic
('able 6). Transport of iron ore alone will acc unt for about 50% of TCDD's
traffic in 1980 (31% in terms of tons) due to an increase in production of
iren and steel fror about 1.7 million tons in 1972 to over 6 million tons in
1980. Although Turkish authorities intend to continue their policy of import



- 15 -
substitution, preparations for expanding the mining of iron ore have been
slow but they are expected to be greatly accelerated in 1973 to 1975 in
order to achieve the production targets (Annex 7). Nevertheless the economic
evaluation (paras. 5.07 and 5.08) takes into account the possibility that
variations of about 20% to 30% in the projected growth of iron ore traffic
might occur as a consequence of delays in the expansion of Iron ore mining.
The relative importance of TCDD's coal traffic is expected to decrease be-
cause of more consumption on the spot for conversion of coal, particularly
lignite, into electricity and increased transport of coal by ship to the
stee' mills on the Black Sea Coast and Iskenderun on the Mediterranean Coast
in Southern Turkey. Transport of fertilizer by rail is expected to increas-
by about 6% p.a. which may prove conservative in view of the mucl hig1her
demand for rail transport of that commodity (Annex 7). Based on past ex-
perience, general goods traffic is expected to increase only slightly (2Z
p.a.) over the period 1972-1977. However, according to consultants' esti
mates, there is a substantial growth potential for this traffic, in the
order of up to four million tors (para. 3.07). The increase in total
freight traffic in the period 1972-1980 is estimated at 98% in ton-km and
60% in tons. Details of the traffic forecast are in Table 6 and Annex 7.
(iii) Passenger Traffic
3.28      As -. result of growing road traffic congestion in Istanbul, Izmir
and Ankara, an increasing number_of commuters switched to suburban rail
transport. Electrification of the Istanbul suburban lines furtlher enhanced
this trenid. In the period from 1964-1971, suburban passenger traffic in-
creased by about 80% in terms of pass-km and by 43% in terms of passengers
(Table 7). The growth of suburban passenger traffic is expected to slow
down because of the improvement of the Istanbul urban traffic system now
under way. However, Lhe electrification of the Ankara suburban line, which
is scheduled for service in 1972/73, is expected to partly offset the cur-
tailment of the Istanbul passenger traffic growth. The estirates are con-
servatix'e since it is still too early to assess the full impact of electri-
fication of the subburban lines (Table 8'.
3.29      Main line passenger traffic increased only slowly in the period
1964-1971, by about 19% in terms of passengers and 13% in pass-km. Bus
competition is very keen and generally provides better quality service and
shorter travel times. Fares for rail and bus are about equal for the princi-
pal traffic arteries. However, analysis suggests that railway fares do not
cover even the marginal cost of passenger transport. In order to stay com-
petitive, TCDD did not increase its fares despite enormous cost increases for
passenger traffic and, therefore, could retain its main line passenger traffic
only at the cost of increasing financial losses.
3.30      As detailed in paragraph 6.07, a fare increase of about 70% over
the next four years is considered necessary and, on this basis, the Bank
has prepared, in cooperation with TCDD, forecasts for main line passenger
traffic through 1977 (Table 8 and Annex 7). This traffic is expected to de-
crease substantia4ly by about 12% p.a.



- 16 -
F.   Unecononic Lines, Stations and Services
3.31      TCDD's network comprises about 2,400 u.^ of lines (30% of the system)
wIth low traffic density V.  Preliminary studies in 1969 by consultants
ITALCONSULT indicated that these lines either made no adequate contribution
to their overhead expenses or did not even cover the variable costs of keep-
int then in operation. There are also a number of stations (about 300 out of
1,100) and some passenger and freight services other than those on the un-
economic lines mentioned above, which seem to be uneconomic. It is envisaged
that the economic potential of these lines, stations and services will be
studied in detail by consultants to be engaged under the VN'DP technical as-
sistance program with a view to deciding on an appropriate course of action
(para. 4.18 and Annex 2).  In cases where Covernnment should insist on keeping
unpr.fitable lines, stations or services in operation for social, political
or otWenr reasons, TCDD will be reimbursed for the losses resulting therefron
as stipulated in Law 440. It is estimated that the total savings on account
of rationalization or abandonment of uneconomic lines, stations and services
will amount to about TL 520 million in the period 1973-1978 (Table 13).
4.  THE PTLAN AND THE PPO.JECT
A.   The Long-Term Investment Proaram
4.01      A leng-term investment program for TCDD (1970-1979), prepared by
consultants (ITALCO;;SUIT) in 1968, recommended expenditures of about TL 6.5
billion (1968 prices) for rehabilitation and modernization of the system.
1Dirinc' the last two years, TCDD has revised the program, following advice
gii;en by thie State Planning Organization (SP!) and successive Bank missions.
Thils pro'-ram, upon which the project is based, covers the period of the Third
and Fourthi Five-Year Develonment Plans 197'-19R2 anu  takes into account works
to be carried out during 1972.  Essential r2habilitation and modernization
over a ten-vear period cover track renewals (Table 9), signalling, replacement
of over-age coaches and wagons and substitution of steam by diesel traction.
New works, the scone of which is to be deter-inned by the UTNDP-financed engi-
;,.;ring and feasibility studies (para. 4.18) which would include propusals
'ro- the Ministry of Public lWorks (NPW1) for major track realignment and new
line construction to service anticipated industrial development. 2/
4.32      By 1982, TCDD plans to replace its °20 steam locomotives by 520
main line diesel locomotives and 120 shunters. The diesel locomotives are
1/   For an enumera.ion of the lines, see Annex 2 and Map IBRD 3313R.
2/   Tecer-KangaJ shortcut and extension of the Zonguldak line to provide
a connection with the Eregli steeltuarks.



- 17 -
to be manufactured in TCDD's own workshop at Eskisehir. 1/ In examininp, this
plan, the Bank considered (a) number of locomotives required, (b) optimal
period for dieselization, (c) economy of production of diesel locomotives ir
TCDD's own workshop, (d) optimal proportion of imported componen.s, (e) qualitv
and workmanship of the TCDD products, and (f) utilization of the Eskisehir
Droduction caracitv of after completion of dieselization. The Bank's con-
sultant on the appraisal mission confirmed the justification of TCDD's manu-
facturing program! for locomotives.  rianagement of the workshop is competent
and is answerable tirectly to the Dircctor General of TCDD.  The workshop is
self-accountable, and overhead costs are properly distributed to workshop
products. Quality of production is satisfactory and production costs arc
compet-Itive.  The project does not interfere withi TCDD's maintenance prcgram
for diesel loconotives. A su'mmary of Mr. Kniffler's report to the Lank is
attached as Annex 9.
4.03      TCDD manufactures, repairs, and overhauls its own passenger coachos
and freight wagons in workshops at Adapazari and Sivas.  Like the Eskisehir
wqor1kshop, they are separate entities within TCDD and are self-accountable;
workshop management reports directly to the TCDD Board.  The shops arc  .r'i-
cient and car produce rolling stock at a price well belots the importec pro-
duct.  Indigenous material is used in manufacture except fer specialized
components, which are imported on a competitive basis. The capacity of the
workshops is adequate to reet the demands of the rolling stock replacement
program contained in the Investment Plan without rcstrictinc: capacity for
repair and overhaul of rolling stock.
4.04      TCDD has prepared a program for converting existing steam locoinorlvt
workshops and depots to diesel depots, which is geaire  -o the pace of diesel
locomotive production.  Since TCDD has had no experience in executing such a
corplex program, a consultant with appropriate experience will be engaged
periodically, for a total of about t'hree man-months, to monitor the progress
of the dieselization project. The training program for drivers and mainten-
ance staff is satisfactory.
B.   The 1972-1977 Investment Plan
4.05      After detailed discussions with Government, TCT)D and the Bank,
a modified Investment Plan for 1972-1977, was drawn up. It takes into
account Government's severe local currency constraints and comprises only
works and equipment urgently required to attain reasonable standards of
safety and efficiency in operating and to overcome serious arrears of re-
newal of track and modernization of signalling on principal main lines. No
investments are planned for those lines which appear to be uneconomic and
which will be studied by consultants (para. 3.31). The modified Investment
Plan has been approved in principle by Co'rernment and TCDD. The Bank con-
siders the Plan as the minimum necessary f'or TCDD's physical and financial
1/   The workshop also produces bridge structures, points and crossings,
specialized freight cars and some other small items.



- 18 -
rehabilitation and for achievement of the capacitv necessary to carry the
expected traffic. Agreement was reached with the Government and TCDD dur-
ing negotiations that (a) substantial modifications of the 1972-1977 In-
vestment Plan, amounting to more than 10% in any one year for major items,
will be discussed and agreed with the Bank and (b) the Plan will be review-
ed withi the Bank in 1974.
4.06      The estimated cost of the 1972-1977 Plan is TL 7,573 million (US$541
million equiVrnlent), including customs duties and taxes in 1972 (TL 101 mil-
lion) and contingencies (TL 1,765 million). 1/ Estimated expenditure for each
year is shown in Table 10. The program is planned in detail for th,e years
1972-1974, but certain works contained in the period 1975-1977 remain to be
engineered and evaluated.
C.   The Project and the Loan
4.07      The project, which forms the first phase of TCDD's modified 1972-1977
Investment Plan aims at elimination of obsolescence of TCDD's properties and
provision of capacities to meet future traffic demands. It consists of (a)
all investments to be made in 1972-1974; (b) action summarized in paragraph
4.17 and specified in the Plan of Action (Annex 8); and (c) preparation and
studies required for the execution of the second phase, 1975-1977, of the
lnvest,r,ent Plan (para. 4.18). This project is estimated to cost TL 3,120
million (US$222.9 million), including customs duties and taxes for 1971, and
contingencies.
4.08      The project includes the following major items:
(a)  Complete renewal of 660 km of track, partial renewal of
sleepers and ballast for 110 km of track, and renewal
of about 590 switches:
(b)  Procurement of machinery and equipment for track layin.t
and for ballast quarries;
(c)  Be.'inning and partial completion of signalling
installations, and completion of telecorm,unication
installations on lines;
(d)  Manufacture of about 126 diesel main line locomotives,
24 shunters, 170 passenger coaches, 2,800 freight wagons,
20 heating vans, and 30 tank wagons; procurement of 8
emergency cranes and 5 snow ploughs;
(e)  Replacement and modernization of workshop machinery,
conversion of steam locomotive workshops and depots
into diesel workshops and depots;
(f)  Reconstruction and modernization of storage facilities,
terminal and idministrative buildings, electric lighting,
and water supply;
1/   Fromn 1973 onwardls TCDD will !e exermpt fro-i custor"s duties .and imrport taxes.



- 19 -
(g) Provision of training facilities and traininz of TCDD
str..f abroad; and
(h)  Consultants' services for dieselization, trac' renewal
and implementation of a tariff reform scherme, and four
special railway studies to be financed by VlTDP (para 4.1S).
4.09       The pruposed loan would finance, in 1073 and 1J7#, Ut'$37 million
of foreiga exchange expenditure, and LISSlO million equivalent of local cur--
rency expenditure. Of the latter, USS1.75 million equivalent and S$3.75
million equivalent would be for track ballast and labor engaged in track
renewal, resnectively, items unsuited to internation.l bidding.  An anount
of USS4.5 million for wooden sleepers would be subiect to iaternational co -
petitive bidding.  Estimated project expeiditure and !tens to be financed '-
the proposed loan are shown in Table 11 and sumnarized in the table on pape
20.
4.10       The cost estimates for (a) way and vir!ks material, (b) motive poI:C7
ar.j rolling stock, and (c) maintenance and repair facilities for motive po- ..- _
and rolling stock are based on price quotations received by TCDD in 1971.  i;;              
cost estirates for signalling and telecornunications enuip-ent are based c::
proposals of ma'or European firr:s received by TCDD recently.  Allowances 1h,.r-c
been rmade for price contingencies between 6r' and 1O0f o... for local cos_s,-
based or. estimates of a Bank economic mission tn Turl.ey in April 1q72, anrd
between 5% and 7,. p.a. to meet possible increases in tf'e cest of irlpcrted
materials.  A snmall physical contin-ency (USSO.2 n-illion) has hern for 3i:n;:
inF and teleco:-irunications facilities, since so;ae of thie wor'ks nced rore
detailed engineering.  to physical contingencv is included for the other
itens, since physical quantities to be procureri or werls to be executed art
known and are not expected to change.
4.11       Thc following foreign exchanz.e items of the project arc *xcludcd
from the proposed Bank loan financing:
(a)  workzs, carried over from previous prograns, uhich are
contracted and/or for which materials have beon supTplied:
(b)  diesel electric locomotives of 2,400 hp, for whihi TCDD
has concluded a license agreement with the Frenech -
consortiums  trE and which would be financed by tle Euronean
Investnent Bank;
(c)  diesel shunters, for which a license agreemcnt with thie
German manufacturer ?IAV exists: and
(d)  production facilities at the Eskisehir wor'shor, which
would also be financed by the European Investment Bank.
For all other ite;ns, 100% of the foreign exchange costs is included in the
proposed loan.



- 20 -
US$
million
% ofI    Pro-
Total   posed
(TL Million)/l           (US$ Equivalent)       Expend-  Loan
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign  Total    iture   Total
(1) way and works  551.3   254.4   805.7    39-38   18-17   57-55    26.8    25.16
(2) Signalling and
teleconmunica-
~tons          132.b    36.2   168.6       9.46    2.59   12.09      5.6     1.29
(3) Motive power
and rolling
stock          799.2   365.3 1,l64.5    57.09   26.09   83.18    38.7         9.06
(a) Maintenance and
repair faciliVAes
for motive power
and rolling
stock          122.8   113.2   236.0       8.77    8.09   16.86      7.8      2.t!1
(5) Training end
training
facilities       5.8      3.3     9.1      0.41    0.24    0.65      0.3     u.21
(S) Consultants'
services          2.0     4.8     6.8      0.14    0.34    0.49      0.2      0.34
(7) Other
investments    121.9    22.3   144.2       8.71    1.59   10.30       4.8    0.M1l
(8) Total 1 to 7 1,735.4   799.5 2,534.9   123.96   57.11  181.07    84.7   -39-L.
(9) Contingencies  339.4   132.7   472.1    24.24    9.48   33.72    15.8        7.80.
(1C) GRAND TOTAL  ?,074.8   932.2 3,007.0   148.20   66.59  214.79   100.0    47.00
/1 Excludes customs duties and taxes for 1972: TL 101.4 million.



- 21 -
D.   Execution of the Project. Procurenent and D:.sbursement
4.12      Consultants will assist in the planning and execution of the track
*           renewal and signalling programs (para 3.06), and coordinate the manufacture
of diesel locomotives and phasing out of stean loromotives, toeether with the
provision of maintenance depots and the training of locomotive drivers and
*           maintenance staff (para 4.04).  In oddition, consultant's assistance will.
be required to establish a traffic costing syster. and a tariff reform scheme
(para 3.09), as well as other railway studies expected to be financed under
the U*DP assistance program (para. 4.18).  Moreover, an'reer'ent w:as reatc''-.7 !--
ing negotiations that a project coordinating cen'mittec, consisting of repre-
sentatives of the relevant TCDD departments advised by tle consultants, -wi!
be for::ed by March 31, 1973, to plan, org,anize and coordin:ite the tirelv.
execution of the project.  The coordinating committee will m.ect periodicallv
under the chairmanship of the Director Ceneral of TCDD and have executive
powers.
4.13      All imported goods to be financed under the Joanr. ould be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordanc(- with the Lank's
guidelines.  Preferential trade agreements exist between Turkey and the
European Economic Commnunity.  Therefore, ac.reement was reached with Governrient
during negotiations that for purposes of bid evaluation all items under the
loan to be procured by international competitive bidding *zould be evaluated
on the basis of the ClF landed cost except that dorestic nanufacturers would
have a preferencc equivalent to 15%1 or the lur ai ci L 0;:s -i:!v. toi.'!ie %  i i
Traclk wor% and other civil engineering work is done by force account but tOe
rapid acceleration of tracl. renewals will require temporary employment of
additional staff and, possibly, contracting to local firrs.
4.14      For imported goods, disbursements would be made on the basis of
CIF landed costs.  For goods and services procure-d locally, such as wooden
sleepers, the Bank would disburse 100% of ex-factorv cost of goods awarded to
successful local bidders under international comretitive bidding.  For local
expenditure incurred on certain identifiable items such as labor engaged in
track renewal and track ballast, the Banl: would finance fi' et tV;ic otal
cost.  Annex 10 shows an estimate of disbursenents assuming the proposed loan
becomes effective in June 1973.  Should there be any savings in Bank-financed
items, they would be used to finance the foreign exchange costs and, possibly,
part of the local cost of continuing items in the Plan, subject to review and
agreement with the Bank.



- 22 -
E.   Financing of the Project
4.15      The following table summarizes thie proposed financing plan of the
project:
TL Million       US$ Million      '/
Government /1                             2,220              158.5         71.2
Proposed Bank- Loan                         658               47.o         21.1
European Investment Bank                    225               16.1          7.2
French Bilateral Credit                      17                1.2           .5
Total                                3,120             222.8        100.0
/1   Incluading TI. 101.4 million (1TS$7.2 mill-n) customs duties and taxes
for 1972, and TL 172.1 million (US$12.3 rillion) forei n exchanpe for
1972 and some carry over items in 1973 (para 4.11).
4.16      The proposed Bank loan includes a local currency component of TL 140
million (I'SS10 million). Confirmation has been received that Government Vill
fully cover the balance of local currency requirements. The European Invest-
-ent Bank (EIB) will finaace 1moorted conipoixnts for 1 E' die~sel 1oco!no-
tives, to be manufactured by TCDD, and some locomotive production equipment
for the Eskisehir factorv. This would be a continuation of EIB's ongoing
financial assistance (since 1970) for the production of 60 diesel locoaI.itives
and would secure TCDD's foreign exchange requirenents for the diesel locomo-
tive production up to 1976. A French bilateral credit, already secured, will
finance the balance of TCDD's foreign exchange requirements for the produc-
tion of the 140 locomotives.  Since the ti-miely execution of TCDD's dieseliza-
tion prograr and its financing are of critical importance for the whole re-
habilitation and modernization program, the Bank is maintaining close contact
*ith EIB to ensure proper coordination of their respective proiects.
F.   '-e-orandum of Understanding on a I'lan of Actior. for TCDD
4.17      In preparation for the Bank's intonded participation in the long-
orm program for TCID's physical and financial rehab4litation, an ag.eement
was signed in December 1970 between the Govermient, TCDD and the Bank on a
tine-phased Plan of Action. The objectives of the Plan of Action, consistent
with Turkey's policy guidelines for the transport sector (para. 2.10), are to:
(a) improve TCDD's organization and corporate planning; (b) introduce a cost-
related competitive pricing policy based on establishment of a costing system;
(c) reduce staff by attrition; (d) revise TCDD's financial relationship with
C,overnrent and establish a specific accountability for the compensation of
losses resulting from imposed non-economic services; (e) study uneconomic
lines, stations and servic .s; and (f) develop an investment program based
on sound technical, financial and economic criteria. Progress in implement-
In, the Plan of Action was slow as may be seen from Annex 11; the Plan has
been updated ar.J its timing has been revised. Various elements of the Plan
of Action are discussed in the appropriate sections of this report and a com-
plete version of the updated Plan is shown in Annex 8. During negotiations,



- 23 -
aereement on the revised version of this document was reached with Govern-
ment and TCDD.  Tne new agreement will hb  Jn the form of a schledule to the
Loan Agreenent without reference to the earlier Memorandum as such.
4.18       To help implement the Plan of Action for TCDD, Government has
applied to UN-DP for technical assistance for the following special railway
studies:
(a)  A management study with the objective of improving the
present organizational setup of TCDD and defining the
responsibilities, qualifications and numher of key
personnel;
(b) Feasibility studies on the abandonment or rationalization
of uneconomic iines, stations and services:
(c)  Studies on th1e optimum signalling investments for TCDD; and
(d) Feasibility stujdies on the construction of tu.n now lines.
These studies, estimated to cost about Us$293,000, forrm an integral part o'
the whole rehahilitation program for TCDD.  Govcrnnent has asked UNDP to
appoint the Bank as executing agency. Reference to thcse studics is made
in the appropriate sections of this renort and draft tcrrs of reference for
them are included as Anrex 2.  UNDP has agreed to finance the studies men-
tioned above.
5. ECONu?-TC EVALUA!TIOYN
A.   General
5.01      The 1972-1977 Investment Plan and the Plan of Action for TCDD have
been desi_ned to enable the railwav to continue its operations and to reverse
the steady physical and financial deterioration of the last decades, and at
the same time, to keep in line with financial constraints.  Thr main benefitK-
will be achieved by (a) eliminating the hac'log of deferred track renewal 1I-J
!';!: '  -i .;ill    , thus increasing train speed and curtailino delays, de-
railnients and accidents; (b) increasing the railway's epacity For carrving
traffic; and Cc) imiproving, through hetter quality of sorvice and vilorous
comnercial action, TCDD's market position vis-a-vis its competitors. The
benefits of the project would accrue to (i) the railway's customers in the
forn of improved quality of service. (ii) TCDD in the form of reduced unit
cost of rail transport, (iii) Goverament in the form of reduced subsidv pay--
ments and (iv) the economy in the form of avoided capital and operating cost
of highway transport.
5.02      In the absence of detailed cost studies, benefits for individual
programs could not be identified and quantified.  Moreover, the individual



- 24 -
pror-ar.as are closelv interrelated and m.aximur benefits can be realized only
if the whole long-term Investment Prograr (1972-1992) is carried out. The
tiv.ini! of the individual programs takes account of TCDD's capacitv for execut-
ing then, as well as the future traffic demand. A qualitative evaluation of
the most inmportant sub-prograns in the Investment Plan and an overall quanti-
tative economic evaluation are presented in the following paragraphs.
".  2Lvaluation of the Plan
(l) Traci- Renewal and SignallinE
Insufficient track renewals havc brought about a critical situation
t'  re-ard to the safety and orderly conduct of railway operations.  The
backlog of t:acn  rcnewal arounts to 2,)OO lk, 1/ (33r  of the netmorl).  Acci-
dents and delays on these lines are frequent and. trairs can be operated only
at Lec r than. normal speed, thus restricting  line capacity and increasing
operatinc costs. The inrrovement of the track sections envisaged in the
Investment Plan will be a prerequisite for handling of the expected traffic
e   ir:rare by 1977 and for increasing safety, and therefore ;erits highest
h        Fl ^kri-ritv .
Due to insufficient investment funds and lac- of action by manage-
r, nt, albout 782: of TCDD's network is without centralized control of train
i   :o lerts, and S7- of the stations have cither obsolete signalling and safety
in,'1.-.'lations, or none at all.  The sigralling investments envisaged in the
Tz:atrert Plnn will help to provide the increased caracity and safety urgent-
.- required for the future iron ore traffic.  In addition, the 1high density
Iz-ir suburban section (17 li) will he equipped with new signalling.
(ii)   rieselization and "'ew Rollina Steck
d i.c3    TCDD's tractive power still consists  afr;rly of steam locomotives,
ateut 42- of whiclh have exceeded their useful lf.fe.  Operating and maintenance
costs are nrogressivelv increasing with the age of the locomotives.  Addition-
aIvy, TCDD had to start manufacturing, at high cost, its own spare parts for
stear locormotives. Dieselization of the system will result in savings of up
-   in operating and naintenance cost, increased availability of locomotives
i-, thus, increased hauling capacity.  Further, the capacity for heavy repair
cnuld be reduced to about 60% of its present level 2/. The Investment Plan
a3So provides for remodeling of workshops and the procurement of new repair
equipment.
1/   Excluding track on lines which are to be studied for closure.
2/   Source:  Report on the Dieselization of the System of the Turkish State
Railways (TCDD) and the Production of Diesel Locomotives at TCDD's
Eskisehir Workshop, submitted to IBRD by A. Kniffler (Consultant),
Washington, May 24, 1972.



- 25 -
5.(Th      The forecast freig-t traffic could not be carried by rail unless
newe freight cars are put into service.  Ahout 3,0OG freifht cars are obsolete,
ar.d replacement !s urgently required.  With regard to-passen-er coaches, t!,
Plan provides for 300 new units as replacements for obsolete coachen. Hrew-
ever, as may be seen from the passenger traffic forecast, main line traffzic
is expected to decline substantially (para. 3.30) and, therefore, the pro-
duction program for passenger coaches should be reviewed in about 1974.  lhe
introduction of some 120 new passenger coaches in 1973/74 would be needed tn
replace obsolete coaches (150 units), in accordance with the traffic declin1e
as forecast.
C.   Quantification of Economic Benefits
5.07       The economic benefits of the investments are evaluated by quanti`-
ing the avoided investment 1/ and operating costs of hiehway transport. s-
ditional benefits would accrue from savings in railway operating cost for
traffic that would remain on the railways even in the absence of the invest
ment program, and if the present level of capital expenditures would be co:n-
tinued.  Two possibilities are considered:  (a) execution of the long-term
railway investrent proeram (1972-1982), or (b) contintued deterioration of the
TCDD system and diversion of rail traffic to road.
5.08       Sensitive factors for the economic return of t-e Investment Plan
are (a) investnent cost, (b) traffic growth particularly iron ore (para. 3.Z/
and Annex 7), and (c) TCDD's workinr cost. Various conservative and pessi-
mistic assumptions retarding these factors were tcqted and the economic re.-
turn of the Plan was found to ranpe between 16% and 26%, which Is satis-
factory (Annex 12).
6. FINANCTAL F;;ALUATTONT
A.   Present Position
6.01       Up to the end of 1958, the TCfTD operatinrt account showed eitlher no
losses or a slight profit.  Front 1959 onward, the operatinu account began to
show a loss, whict. increased from Tb 256 million in 1966 to TL 687 million in
1969 and TL 1,124 million in 1971 (summarv income accounts in Table 12).
Excluding from the published accounts the profits with respect to ports ad--
ministered by TCDD, the losses on account of the railway systen are greater;
the actual position for the years 1969-1971 is indicated in Table 13 and
summarized below.
1/   Only investments in vehicles have been considered.  Conaestion and
accident costs on highways and increased highway maintenance cnots
are not taken into account.



- 26 -
1969           1970           1971
llillion TL
Ocnratinz reventue                            887.2          1,027.2        1,088.1
"orking expenses                          1,505.4         1,958.4         2,192.3
(of which staff expenses)                928.5          1,347.0        1,399.1
!Jepreciation                               176.4           196.3           202.1
)peratine expenses                          1,681.8         2,154.7         2,394.4
Net oneratine revenue (loss)                 (794.6)       (1,127.5)       (1,306.3)
Non-operatinz revenue net                      97.1            129.7          122.7
Interest                                      144.2           153.0           173.4
Net income (loss)                            (841.7)       (1,150.8)       (1,3,7.0)
('~.'12   Freizht traffic accounts for about 757 of railway operating revenue:
average receipts per ton-km declined by about 25% in real terms during the
per!od 1967-1971. Costs, hIowever, increased substantially. Apart from the
getLeral increase in material expenses, there was a considerable rise in staff
costs.  However, TCDD expects that during the next five years salaries and
war-es will increase considerablv less than in the past. The average per
canita cost of all TCDD staff increased by 13% during 1967-1969 and by 40%
ir real terms during the period 1967-1971.  The new personnel law for state
e7iplovees, effective in 1970, increased their level of remuneration substan-
tially; periodical wage agreements with manual labor also increased the costs
(the average annual increase in their case amounted co almost 5Z per annum in
real terms ut to 1971). The railway's operatfn' losses therefore rose sub-
staintiallv and iwould have been higher if the standards of track maintenance,
etc., had bron held at a higher level, as was desirable.
6.v)'     TCDD's financial difficulties are aggravated by its having, to borrow
d    recuired funds since the authorized Covernient capital was fixed at a
ra-h'r low level - T'L 2.5 billion as against ner fixed assets valued at TL
Z.'5 billion in 1953, when TCDD was set up os a state economlc enterprise.
hiow&> er, the assets of the works carried out by the Ministry of Public Works
utillzinf Government funds are transferred to TCDI1. Borrowings were made
lar-tclv from the State Investment Bank (there were several loans made each
year): some treasury loans were also ,iven.  TCDi, s oneratinp deficits since
1'>': were al..o not fully reimbursed by Government.  TCDD therpfore resorted
tu short-term, borrowings to cover cash needs and its financial situation re-
ra4ined seri-us.  The whole matter was reviewed and the financial relations&hip
of TCDn to Government was revised, in Marchi 1971 (Law 1381), to afford relief
to TCDD.  Under this law, the authorized Government capital of TCDD was raised
to Ti. 8 billion: this will enable TCDD's investments to be met from Government
tunds on an equity participation basis if desirable and necessary. The past
Ireasurv loans and the total deficits to the end of 1970 were converted to
enuitv and Government assumed the obligations of TCDD to make installment
payments of principal and interest to the State Investment Bank with respect
to its loans. The law also provides that the annual track renewal, mainten-
arcc and repair expenditure of TCDD are to he vet by the Treasury; payments
iade by Government for track maintenance and repair are accounted by TCDD as



- 27 -
operating proceeds.  No specific provision is made recarding fututre operatins
deficits; this matter is reviewed every vear.  Governmeut did, however, reim-
burse part of the operating deficit of TCVD In 1971. A net- draft law for
increasine Government authorized capital to TIL 1  billion, to be raised fur-
ther to TL 20 billion ,f necessary, is currently under rovernment consitleration.
6.04      The balance sheets of TCDT  (including the ports and the Eskisehir
factory) for th-e vears 1969-1971 are shown in Table 14, whichi also shows an
analysis of the 1971 fipures.  The current ratio durinc, these years was
satisfactory, but the liquid ratio, varving fre" 0.5 to n.8, was low. The
debt/equitv ratio irmproved in 1971 on account of T.aw 13R1.  The local loans
consist almost wholly of the State Investment Bank loans, the servicing of
which has been taken over by Government.  The foreipn loans shown in 1971
include TL 133.3 million (ETS$9.5 rmillion equivalent) frorm the European Invest-
Qent Pank toward diesel locomotive manufacture at rskisehir (para. 4.02).
B.   Future Prosp_ects
6.05      TCDD should aE!.: at gradually ir.provinr  its financial positioni so
that railwav operating revenues cover working exnenses (excluding deprecia-
tion, but including track maintenance and repair) as early as rossible.  This
would require determined effort on the part of TCDD and continutine Governnent
support therefor. TCDD would have to take vigorous action for rodernization.
raticnalization of services and itaprovements in thie quality of service en-
visages in the Investment Plan and the Plan of Action.  Apart from cost re-
duction measures, TCDD would have to improve its commercial and miarketing
techniquies and make adequate tariff adjustments to gradually improve its
finances.
6.06      The forecast income accounts based on the projected traffic growtl,
(paras. 3.27 and 3.30 and Annex 7), the dieselization program now envisaged
to improve TCDD railwav operations and assumed tariff increases are given in
Table 13, which also shows separately the additional revenue to be raised
over and above the revenue expected at the .Januarv 1972 fares and rates. The
prlncipal assumptions of the financial forecasts are outlined in Annex 13.
The forecast income accounts are summarized as follows:



- 28 -
(Million TL)
1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977      1978
Operating revenue 1,152.0  1,354.4  1,392.3  1,574.5  1,906.4  2,133.9  2,248.2
Working
expenses        2,339.8  2,338.2  2,328.7  2,340.3  2,385.7  2,355.7  2,370.7
Depreciation       265.0    312.0    375.0    445.0    560.0    638.0    680.0
T <.a operating
expenses        2,604.8  2,652.2  2,703.7  2,780.3  2,945.7  2,993.7  3,050.7
Working loss       1,187.8    983.8    936.4    765.8    479.3    221.8    122.5
Y-3s reduction )
in respect of   )      -        10.0      40.0     70.0    100.0    130.0    170.0
I-economic lines)
.nd services    )
Net Working Loss
(gain)          1,187.8    973.8    896.4    695.8    379.3        91.8    (47.5)
.et operating
revenue (loss) (1,452.8)(1,285.8)(1,271.4)(1,140.8)   (939.3)  (729.8)  (632.5)
rn-operating
revenue            120.0    120.0    120.0    '20.0    120.0    120.0    120.0
:erest             125.2    127.9    140.5    152.4    176.2    194.9    216.0
Less           1,458.0  1,293.7  1,291.9  1,173.?    995.5    804.7    728.5
;  Yifg ratio %      203.1    172.1    165.1    144.9    120.3    104.4         97.8
6.(1      These forecasts are based on constant January 1972 prices and wages,
a.u4 incorporate the effect of tariff adjustments in constant terms which are
& nsidered feasible and necessary to improve the financial situation of TCDD.
'sible Government subsidies for public service ohligations have not been
;.:en into account. It has been assumed that staff reduction will continue
i.il 1976 as envisaged in the Plan of Actien, tilat th.c Iieselization Tro-
;-am now planned will materialize and that TCDD will take comnercial action
en provide the service improvements needed to achieve the freight traffic
r-recasts and make cumulative tariff adjustments. The question of tariff
.);$usLuients was discussed during negotiations when it was indicated that TCDD
,l-s given effect to some selective tariff increases during 1972 and a freight
..r-'ff increase of 32.52 in current terms, would be implemented from January
.~3. Besides there would be an increase, in current terms, of suburban pas-
-nseer fares by about 33% from April 1973 and of main line vassen4ger fares
. about 20% in April 1973 and beyond. These increases have been taken into
..~.ount in the above forecasts, in real terms. Besides these, further freight
t.a-iff Increases in real terms of 11% from January 1975, and 10% from January
al)7, and passe~nger tariff increases in real terms of 15% from January 1975
4.-id 10% from .7anuary 1977 in respect of suburban fares and of 21% each from
.ruary 1975 and January 1977 in respect of main line passenger fares would
needed to improve the Railway's finances and are included in the forecasts.
-,f tariff increases are substantial, a cumulative 57.8" for freight traffic;
are, however, necessary to improve the railway's financial position ade-
* ly.  The tariff increases indicated and substantial cost savings would
-* ritually improve finances and enable the Railway to earn operating revenue
:...equate to cover working expenses (i.e. attain a working ratio of 1) in 1978.



- 29
6.08       The forecasts also incorporate the reeuction cof losses in respect
of uneconomic lines and services that are, on the basis of data now availahle,
considered necessarv and feasible - these have been indicated separately for
each year. TCDD could in sone cases take action regarding the rationalization
of services, etc., even pending the results of the L":DP-financed study. D.ur-
ing negotiations it was agreed that the consultants' recommendations wouildl he
reviewed with the Bank by May 31, 1974 and that a tine phased1 plan prepared
with a view to achieving the savings indicated above and Incorporated In the
plan of action.
6.09      During negotiations, specific working ratio targets for each year
were also agreed upon and incorporated in t1e plan of aiction - 190% in 197 ,
165, in 1974, 145% in 1975, 120% in 1976, 104% in 1977 and 10O. In 1978.  '.
order that the tariff increases referred to in para. 6.07 are maintainect it.
real termis, it was agreed that additional tariff increases, .is ne.-essary,
would be made. from January 1975 and at the latest everv s.-cond vear rheroafteJr,
taking into account the increases in staff and labor remuneration levels that
have occured or are foreseen and the changes in the wholesale price index (nr
other than foodstuffs. It was also accepted that the TCDD and rhe Bank would
review, in September of every year, connencing September 1973, the progress
made in attaining the working ratio target during the previous year and agree
on the action needed to attain the target for the following year.
6.19)      In vieii of tho finances forocast, there ls need for Government a5sist
ance to cover the operating deficits of TCDD, in addition to the financin:_
of the investnent progran and debt servicing.  Government agreed, during rego-
tiatio-.s, to provide such assistance.
6.11       Forecast balance sheet data are in Table 15 and cashi flow data' In
Table 16. The halance sheet data incorporate the transfer of some assets
from the Iinistry of Public  .'orks.  The current ratio would be satisfactory
and thc debt ecuitv ratio would procressively irprovc fror 30/70 to 25/75
in 1077.
7. AGREEMENTS REAC1HED AND RECOtThIENDATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  transport coordination (para. 2.15);
(b)  technical assistance in the fields of track renewal and
signalling, tariff reform, dieselization (paras. 3.06,
3.08, 4.04);
(c)  adoption of a Plan of Action for Railway Developrient
(para. 4.17); and
(d)  yearly financial targets (para. 6.07).



- 30 -
7.02       The proposed project provtdes a suitable basis for .a Bank loan of
US$47 million for a term of 25 years, incltuding a five year grace period.
Aprtl 1973



TAB   J
Nrl D 5tato  Ra±1w8   (TCDD)
Turam  state  _w_1_-ie_QsD               tl
19S  1966         97           6         1269        ' 97e       li71
Vorat in  Ufficitcy
Pigin_..m per EWgino Day Avalable */
. Staee  locootve                               Ka             151.        151        11.         115         158         1?7        n..
- 111  lotos,oti )                              Dn.e..                     412        4.05         33         SJ-         505        n.S.
- UOcttic locmotive   (Karos)                   D              120         120         120        120         120         120        n.a.
- Diesel rdilcer                                               300        31L         305         332         33B         37o        r..a.
- El.mctrD rc ti raII S                         Dc             25          25L.       261,        2BL.        32t         31.0       n.e.
lroSM tonkm per LEocaoti._l4
- Stem  looonot_vs               7T0n                         n..          ...    4     27        1.26         33 L  O               n.
- tP1g*  lorowtives                             Ton.          h..         n.e.         581        574.        573        52         n.e.
'o,es tn-kb par goos traLn-ke b/                   TM             614         630        622         624         632         638 eatAA. 638
Feeanrs-k's Fsr passenger train-km
'e**ere  rnwuher of pae"onger  pr train)Y                         227         231        236         237         232         2B1 setim. 15
xet tcr-im per g£od. trair-km
iesrtgo load per train) r/                        Ton            262         262         `63         263    ,    14d        250  otim. 25
4et to -ka per lolaed wAa4-oh
aver4e load)                                       Ton             13.9        13.?       12.9        iJ4.5       13.6         w. estIm.15.c'
.t ton cm par frr ght wagon In flot c/    030 Ton                298         303         281         282         283        314        n.e.
;Atio of Laded I tot&I freight wa.on_i                              0.70        o.n         0.78        0.70        0.70       0.66    n.e.
:Ur4e turnamund time *f freight wagons             Dqa              5.57        5.29        54.I8       6.00        6.1.0      6.B9    n.e.
:r± n    p 9r tr&  ..hour
'A'F-4g  trair tpo d) jL
r%oo.tra.1na, &loam                           XWh           ri.e.       n.e.          19.0        17.7        16.2        15.6     n. .
- i9e-tralef, diesel loeitiye                   Xwsh          'i.e.       n.-.          34.4        35.7        33.7       3S.L      `.a.
- 9ae-trILa,  i"sl milars                        ne n.. ..                 .e.          42.h.       39.3        39.2        J.a3 ;..
goode trLin, ot.ao                            [OA           n.e.       n. .           15.2       1lz.1        13.6        .        n.:.
goods trains, die-sl                          Ibh           n.R.        n.R.          1b.3        1B.9        19.3        13.d      r.a.
't..f  Productivity
ry-age rnuder of 1.ot.ui *t ef  /                               n.e.        n.e.        66,b52       69,122      69,599     67.826   65,573
- of  uI±Ch  opf tiOtial NtW r                  No.           n.s.        n.4.        61,2b9       63,625     63,199      62,821   60,333
- oft tin perdurt1on ehopoff                    loo.          n.e.        n..          5,203        5,1.97      6,bO0       5,302    5,160
:r rf:e units per n ,r f op rationa  *taf          000           h.&.        n.e.           153          152         155         17?0/    19n
rose tInn-I  per ,,u  of operational ta ft         0O            D.-.        n.-.           290          291         312         331       ')L
..rat-Dnd staff par zmut.-km                       mow.          n.*.        n.e.             7.6          7.9         7.9         7.9       7.S ft
-'Unting 2oco=ts.m., and  ,jsntit4N  and hot waiting or  smini   i.moitlve  are  icl,ad; b/ 50  of mixed train-ka are added each to
Lee. amd good8 train-Ial S/ inclusaW privately owned wagin   V  Imliuding time of stoppTng,ahMtIog,And delays on routs; a/ computed
,n tO  basic of men-doy. worked; _q  imam, mai.nly attributable to chrags i tattt etr.uc-          e; IV coputed for tbearag. gf 9 monthn
, f 7.9e5 route-km and 10 noDthe of 5,169 rout.-.
A9V ,;2,



TABII ,
TUUZT
Turkish Stata Railways (TCDD)
Notive Pmor and Rolling Stock - YearXy Averaes 1967-1S71
1967         D6           1969       1970        1971
I    (DTIVE FOWER
Steam Locomotlves
In operational fleet (noe)                                859           858          852       8abb         8140
Available             (nos)                               648           665          650        630         6)2
Available               S                                   75.5          77.5        76.3       7b.3        71.7
Dies.1 Locomtives
In operational fleet (nos)                                106           107          108        114         125
Available             (noo)                                 ?0           92           86         91          J8
Available               %                                   85.1         86.0          79.5      80.1        73.L
Eectric Locomotives
In operational fleet (nos)                                   3            3            3          3           4
Available             (nos)                                 (2.8)         (2.8)       (2.7)      (2.6)       (3o')
Available                                                   94.8         93.2         89.3       92.1        75Th.
Diesel Rtilcara
In operational fleet (noe)                                 56            56           56         56          56
Available             (nos)                                              142          42        J43          IO
Available               S                                   76.4          74.5        75.8       76.2        72.3
Eectric Railcarea
In ope!ational fleet (nos)                                  30           30           30         30          ; )
Available             (noe)                                 28            27          28         29          2e 
Available               %                                   92.7         91.6         94.8       Y5.6       ;X.2
I I ROLLING SIDCK
Passenger coaches V
In operational fleet (no.)                              1,301         1,346        1,391      1,350       1,343
Available             (nos)                             1,028         l,1.'j       1,178      1,162       1, ,, :
Available               %                                   79.0           4.8       864.7       85. 7        %c lI
Heating vans in fleet 3/ (nos)                                1'            13           38        46          lq
Fr gt aone
Ti   aoperatioL al tleet 3/                            16,850        17,145       17,025    16,432       16,423
Avalable              (nol7                            ±5,045        15,683       15,321    14,396       15,2uP
Available                                                   89.3          91.5        90.0       87.6        92.15
Approximate loading capacity of
the operational fleet    '000 ton                          385           392          389        380         386
TCDD aervice care (non revenue
earninp) V             (nos)                             2,440         2,56a        2,722      3,015         n.a.
Privately owned  .gons
(re,enue earning)      (nos)                             1,320         1,319        1,338      1,376         n.a.
V   Including dining mid buffet cars, lugoge and mail vans.
2J  Information on availability not obtainable.
I/  Including brake vars.
The above availability figures ere computed on the basis of the actual available unit hours per annum
against the potential =it hours per annuv, i.e., number of units in fleet x 365 x 24.
April 1973



TABIZ 5
-wkish Stat.              D
1                      96696 - 197                          0
CoKI
7Tons (t'0°)         369         282           332          197           210            228            196          191
."on-ka (milion)     198         180           204          130           122            156            136           128
Average haul (k)   536           *537          612          661            582           685            695           678
Tons ('000)        1,617       1,601         1,1,68       1,211         1,231          1,254          1,652        1,9'o8
Ton-4m  (Wlllon      '395        490           470          320           249            2114           2914         1403
.,v,rags haul (bm)   306          305          320          264            2C2           170            178           203
ANWRACIII
tona ('000)        2,290       2,197         2,1L5        2,307          2,252         2,476          2,438         2,561
Ton-km (uwion)       307          275          292          332            3014          310             277          290
Average haul (k)    134           125          119          141,           135           125             11,          113
SOUAR 8ETS
Tona ('000)        2,330       2,032         2,06o        2,363         2,400          1,580           1,452        1-.
Ton-km (i:llon)     205          187          179          209            209           133             135          187
Averap haul (km)      88           92           85            88            87            65              93           96
MCIASSES
Tons ('000)           96         107           t'           103            100           109              79           98
Ton-km (million)      141          54           149          53             58            7h             142           61
Awerage haul (km)   h22           508          5b1          509            577           681             529          621
CXRZA1S
Tons ('000)        1,Om3          953          940        1,036          1,063           933             780          971
Ton-4m (million)     1,99        1490          509          606            665           586             141k          473
Awrap haul (km)    h9B            515          542          579            626           627             572          1,86
ThI   ('000)          892        1;82         1,5143       1,587         1,794         1,98is          2,153        1,7C0,
Ton-km (million)      718       1,248         1,127        1,169         1,315         1,1L6           1,863         1,38h
Avrag  haul (km)    805            789          730           736          733            ?29            759           795
V    RHav   .arrnng tratio.                                Soiros  TCW
Aprll 1973



TABIE 5
Page 2          
TUR 
Turkish State RailwYe (TCM)
freight Traio 1964 - vn97
1964          1.965       12§6          196k.         1268          126,°          1970          191
O7R ORES
Tons ('000)          66           67           82           94            91             125           103            253
Ton-lm (minlion)     34           211          21           241            39             53            46            130
Averae haul (1w)  518             358         251          251            428            504           451            513
CHRCE
Ton-, ('COO)        186          256          262          209           212             219           336            363
Ton-km (million)     85          117          117           96             97            104           166            182
Avorap haul (km)   160            159        41,6          462           167             473            4194 501
flRTILIZE! 
Tons ('OO0)         133          245          278          362           302            281            4121          1161
Ton-km (million)     79          123          170          170           137            125            227            232
Avrage haul (km)   597           5011         518          470           453           145             552            '02
FUEL OIL
Tona (000)          542          812          960          358            361           397            352            b31;
Ton-km (dllion)    217           162         554           158           158            170            15$.           203
Averap haul (km)  L0l            557          577          11WA          438            428            427            1166
'Roll
Tons ('000)          54           57           93          100             99           107            253            30J
Tcn-a (milion)       2            26           51           50            52             63            174            223
ATOaM  bhAul (kn)  140,          147          550          501            529           583            687            721
Tons ('000)         249          281          340          311           313            224            155            461
Ton-km (dllion)     84           86           92           87            96             69             47            122
Average haul (1w)  338           305          272          278            305           310            304            265
MIS
-ona (l'O)        3,402        3,652        3,j33        3,729         3,739          3,478          3,162          3,552
on-iw (million)  1,101        1,576       1,706         1,683         1,783         1,797           1,625         1,i29
Average haul (Ow)  4111          431          433         IJ51           1176           516            511           L87
TOUL
Toni ('000)      13,228       14,127       14,709       13,817        14,003        13,195          13,820        15,260
"on-km (million)  4,387        5,328        5,484        5,052         5,235          5,235          5,622         5,711
Average hcuO (1w)   332          378          373          366           374            397            407            377
y/ Revenue earning traf'fo.                           Sourwoc  TCD
April 1973
.



TURKEY
Turkish State Railways (TCDD)
Pasener Trafic 1961h-1971
1964        965         1966         1967       1968         1969         1970          1971
Suburban
P"asenger.          million           59.6        61.0        63.6         68.6       72.9         78.2          80.2          85.1
Pass^knz           amillion          642.2       661.5       696.5        752.8      895.8        962.1       2,116.9 1/  2,276.1
Average Journey     km                11          11           11          11         '12          12             26           26
Main Line
Passengers          million           21.6        22.7        22.3         23.7       25.2         24.3           23.8         25.6
Pass-km             billion            3.1         3.4          3.5         3.5         3.6         3.6            3.4          3.5
Average Journey     km               144         150          156         150         1h5         150            145          135
Total
Passengers          million           81.2        83.7        86.0         92.4       98.1        102.6         104.0         110.7
Pass-ku             billion            3.8         4.1         4.2          4.3       I4.5          4.6            5.5          5.7
Average Journey     km                46          49           49          47          416         45             53           52
Class
1st class           million
Passengers          million            0.1         0.1          0.2         0.1         3.1         0.1            0.1          0.4
Pass-km             million           66.2        69.8         80.5        79.0        68.6        48.2           31.6        139.1
2id class
Passengers          million           21.7        23.1         25.3        28.5        31.2        37.9           36.1         42.1
Pass-hn             billion            0.9          1.0         1.2         1.3         1.4         1.6            2.0           2.3
3rd class
Passengers          million           59.4        60.5         60.5        63.7        66.8        64.6           67.8          68.2
Pass-km             billion            2.8          3.0         2.9          3.0        3.0          3.0           3.5           3.3
Source: TCDn                        1/ Change in tariff distance frem 1-15, 16-25, 26-35, 36-5, to 1-25, 26-45.
Note: From ll-1-71 consolidation of first & second class in one class. Third class is now second class.
All figures rcunded.



TUREY
Turkish StaT4O'&ijVaYa (TCDD)
passenger Traffic 7oi-ecast 1971-1977
I-ncrease/    Average
(Decrease)    Increase/
1971         1972          1973        1974         1975         1976         1977     1977 over    (Decrease) per
Actual  .................. F o r  f c a    t .1971   Annum
Suburban
Passengers ('000)           85,100       85,40oo       6,900        0,200       91,500       93,100       94,600          11           1.8
Paseenger-ko (million)       2,276         2,220       2,260        ?,320         2,380       2,420        2,460           8           1-3
Main-Line
Passengers ('000)           25,600       2<.P"        20,100       1,200        15,900       15,700       15,700         (39)         (6.3)
Passenger-km (million)       3,500         3,400       2,600         ,200        2,000        1,900        1,900         (46)        (1M.8)
Total
Passengers {'000)          1O,700       110,600      107,000       1G,400      107,400      108,800      110,300          (0)        (0)
Passenger-km (million)       5,776         5,620       b,860         .,520       4,380        4,320        4,360         (25)        (5-0)
NOTE: Passengers and Passenger-km based on revenue statistics.
Sources  TCDD and Mission's Eet1mtee.
April 1973



lack R.n... Net,. 1"?2 - 1'2
A. C O4aSO  -.'VFtt
1 *  S, 1   *l.                                                                                                        :
1977        19k I1      19Pb 197k 9Lac'                                 10 .9  197w              193
I. Cois  fa.a.s  **a
a                                                                             2vo.A.  -  s:
3.                           .                                                           11            77 1C.7-192i
9.i.l.2-kI..motn19C                                                J90 "0                              -1                                                                                                                    12VI6
1. fez  .k1-.epo-s1-h o7                                                      sw          6w3Vi
71.    :eie1U .eO- s.ail,l,C                                                                                                                                                                                                 22.
12. t=t.-  sVe                                                                                                    .620                                                                                                       262
13. n1-k-.o,Idk                                                                                                                           620            709                                                                  1.39
ii.. t_-l.de                                                       3b           1c                                                                                             1991                                           237
15. 6t7.!"4s.Pi        1u29 116C                                                            2-         .
6.lieq  to "r         £ bO.                                                                                                                                                                                                    4
17. 0ee.hiroj..21 j                                                                                                            61 C
it.  .oty,-pimtit                                                                                                                         IC C0
1kmv1 ;qWWc                                                                                                                                             161 V
i4. 575£I                                                               229                                                                                 1195        103
.       1  . i   6         P.                      61                                               2            1                    217            161          -                                                       1297
16.   ..o_ t.r-r P.                   131          163          16         1             122.       AI i        iU                        IRK         199        117                                          1767
7. Coilo 6...                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6i6hdleV
T-S      1 Vlt- blril                                                                                                                    1C STi3z
2    i.a                                              35 T
2.  ltsoic.1rl.c.          t i*6tIS                                                      f            72          7 2.977                               6  _7                                                               7.29
3. 1kdo    er_r                                                                                                   ( 16                                                                                                      60
1.  6S1S.o,-_b.S                                                                                         i                                 4                                                                                  120
2. Iitts      %   Plr,,7     I                                                                          45 iSS                                                                                                                 S
AMtIqS te_ P.m 7. rm.ldod
C, igScoastOo. * i.,d. dl                               _ _                                                                               120 37        III 3--                                                               2.1
T?..s 9-  (.u ^iLeoat l-              I                                     -                                    69 40       6r        I'C           11)         135       102         _2.4
te.W   T-k er      1   A * 9                          131          21'          312         721          175        172         4.'        2.S6          162          199       IC?                                            3536
t rttei to,.,..  of 31.er.e,e ut rI11ot            *1.          n1          53          79           '?         I           iC        IC7            Itt         Ic        1r3                                             'oi
*in--5 *d weCtiOsa 'Vt 3. fa 4 dM
D. Coo,1t. Ibsail wIti S.'Vd H . d M.to.1.15.
pled 52 IJD q- ugjht loaf!It 11.'V
objt -o *.-
1. %otali .Ur" 10to       q7                                                                                                                                          69i                                                     929
3.7 )g.4ie-ibrd.                                                                                                                                                                7'                                              21
42..     !p      +                                                                                             __eadl.ao.    _______ _ __                _                      17                   __ _               ;____________
L                D                               _- -.                                                    -                .         1.9 1                       I          -6                                            3'
Rt..  *.  2060Z. arae    nc4  r  nw, ir..    *'  CP4 on tee t.:   aS  osk  .o4dit,e. lt h*t    tO  _    .   .0   t  _: rI'VtLc, ow ces.l-                        . *e' -  I 
tc       , It c,v;.o..:  to itr  *es:.. Dr         stall ,.   ,er., oatelet i-l al  L                .-            to o.e rr   - 7b     -,,e    Cr-   - _   i^
2.  r9.   its.        -    I   efyce  we" Mt yt                                                                                                                                                                            Lk %.h 0 ,L   Sh. ttsct  Icr  i ' tt  e ratl m.  ,,' f   east ,,.   tt-  t
.  7t., tacek ratiwl  cattp  te  'Vot ,tt  ,trr  .,Wlaklste.,  iAsIlw  at a.taa  p':r a_r .              s    .    '     ., - : S.-wo   *09.  .. -O ir    tSet  -'+tta.-   Sr    tr5:-   7wx    oq..   ben              7.5960 Ul tt  of 76. r 
VOro?'aco 1072-il25S
ro Fr 110.5. altOr  ro  *..tt1 ia re Nt...r traffIc loa n te           .ttct  :r "=      ¶rat  *ro.e r *,,ot._   ?tq7 a,e   e  nr t  *0       *- -^  _*  ti               - vd r    9
M itt.,t th tt. ver- slanteton              b      2i(m s,eta.es        Incid :n         Ittaca.



Fart I:
1972                          1973                            1974I
L      F           T             L       F     T                  1.      F        T
14     Way and Works
1.1    Renewal of trackc.
1.1.1  1,10'4 km complete renewal with
new materials                          36.Is   23.9        60.3        65.5   43.o    108.5            59.2   38.3         9?.5
1.1.2  119 kmo partial renewal with
second-hand materials                    -       -                       -       -                        -      -
1.1.3  410 ba reneval of sleepers and
ballast                                10.0      -         10.0        15.0      -       15.0           17.0     -         17.0
1.1.1  625 on completion of track re-
newal carried over from previous
program                                30.8    8.3         39.1        3Ih.6   22.4      57.0          89.9   57.y       1l7.8
1.1.5  Alurinothernic rail welding              0.9    0.9          1.8         2.5    2.5        5.0           1.9    1.9         3.8
Subtotal 1.1                           78.1   33.1        111.2       117.6   67.9    185.5           160.c   98.1        25C.1
1.2    Other work related to permanent
way, carried over from previo-rs
proeram                                29.3    0 5         29.5          -       -         -
1.3    Renewal of 1,W75 switches                 -       -         .           9.7   10.5        20.2           Y.7   lr.5         2G.2
1.1,    Renewal and extension of station
sidings                                  -       -          -          21.7    6.5       28.2           22.6    6.5        29.1
1.5    Realignment and impronenent of
curvature                                -       -          -          20.0    Is.1      24.1           20.0    u.1        2),.1
1.6    Renewal of bridges                        -      _          -            7.0     -         7.0                                 5
1.7    Renewal and recanstruction of
tunnels ad supporting
structures                              2.1      -          2.1         8.0      -        8.0            8.0     -          8.0
1.8    irocurement of machinery and
equipment for track work and
construction:
1,8.1  for track maintenance and
renewal                                  -       -                      3.0      -        3.C           0.7    6.o          6.7
1.8.2  for track inspection and
exaninp.ion                              -       -          -            -     0.2        0.2             -     1.0         1.0
1.8.3  for welding at site                       -                 -           0.8      -        0.8            0.0    0.2         0.2
!.8.L  for emergency clearing of lines           -      -          -           2.7      -        2.7             -     5.O         5.0
1.8.5  other mac!hinery, equipnent and spares -         -          -           1.9    1.7         3.6           2.6    1.8         L-l
Subtotal 1.8                             -       -                      8.b    1.9       10.3            3.3  lh.0         17.1
1.9    lr.stallaLion and/or irnprovemett
I      of quarries for ballast supply
1.9.1  Construction works                        -       -         -           '3.5    -          3.5           3.5      -          3.5
t.9.2  Prncurement and Installation of
rachinery and equipment                  -       -                       - -           -               -1.5    1fQ          2.5
Subtotal 1.9                              -      -                       3.5 _   1; ___    _ _    _  _ __   I n             6.0
1.10   Buildings for track construction
and maintenance, installation
and equipmnts                            -       -                      2.5      -        2.5            2.5     -          2.5
Total I- Wayand Works                 109.5  33.6        143.1       198.1   90.9      289.3          2l,8.6   13L.2     352.8
2,    Signalling and Teleomnmunications
2.1    S ignall1 ng
2.1.1  New projects (see Part II)                                -       -               -               -           -
2.1.2  Completion of proJects carried
over from previous program
2..tl2...CTC Haydarpasa-Ankara-Kayas            3.0      -          3.0        10.I    3.0       13.4           13.1    3.0          16.1
2.1.2.2 Mechanical signialling                  0.7      -         0.7          1.5      -        1.5           1.5      -           1.5
2.2    Telecommunication
2.2.1  New projectsb                                     -         -  *       30.0    5.0        35.0          36.0    8.5          11.5
2.2.2  Projects carried over from                                                          I
previous Drograma/                      3.3      _         33           5.8   12.2  _  18.0             3.5      -           3.5
2.2.3  Rehabilitation of telegraph lings                           -           4.2      -         1.2           2.9      -           2.9
Total 2   Signalling and
Telecormunication            7.0      -         7.0        51.9   20.2        72.1          57.0   11.5          a.5
lOESl:  a/ Details of the track renewal prograin, see Table 9.                                  b/ Includea telephone, telegraph, tole
Estimated foreign exchange cost for track renewal include                              syetems on the following lin:es:
only the costs of steel materials and parts.  Cost of wooden                             (i) Tatvan-Malatya-Fevzipas-Adan
sleepers are included in local currency.                                                (ii) Yolcatt4Diyarbakir-Kurtalan (
(iii) Adana-Ulukisla-XonysJAAfyon (7
(iv) Izmir-Balikesair-Eskisehir, an
approval by a feasibility stu
(v) Sivas-Catinkaya-Erzurum-Kare-
April 1973



irkial State btliueu (CDD)                                                           LaLocal camwy exp.aditrn               Amomt            mm
Fr P.re4p .aobmsg  ezpemit,r*          lies. *thesads 1izd1ated.
raetap"me  PLO      9747                                                             Ti Total aven1aturs                    Ouhap  ati tts =  - I 14..0
IMQ      tMrSt.udies
475                                                  -Total 29"__ 11"?                                 Pe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tta  l72~ rcetg
L -            7             L               T               L       F       T                                 rcaa
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___   ____ ____ ___ of   fassj4.a
"iahag  to
total
a.?  5la.9   lfl.6          78.0  50.3      I28.3        190.. 1224..       314..6      51ls.3  332..6     W48.9           ;23.90   60.62.      39
-  -               ~~~~~~~16.3  -     18.3         18.6     -         8.6        36.9       -        36.9-
~7.0   .>       22.0.        27.0     -       27.0          30.0    ..        30.C       121.0      -        121.0           8- .64. 
.0  j43.7-  IU.?           83.6  53.7      137.3           -       .306.9  186.0                          2.92.9           143.26   55S.21     38
.? 1.7      3.1;         1.8    I .1.     3.6           2.1    2.1        4Z         10.8    10.8       '21.6            0.77    1.5.       SO'
...2. loo..L 276.7      208.  100.       311&.5       22.1.1  126.3      367.4       989.9   531.5   14,21JA             37.96  108.67       35
-  -        -           ~~~-  -      -           -         -        -               29.3     C.5       29.8             0.04.   2.13        2
.7   10.5      20.2         9.7  10.5        20.2         9.7   10.5        20.2        3.AS    52.5       101.0            3.75    7.21       52
.0    6.5      26.5        20.3 .7.8         28.1.       2043   7.8         26.1       102..9   35.2      12.0.1            2.52   3.0.01      25,
.0   ha.      22..1        24 .0   4..9 I    28.9        2ta.0   1L.9       28.9       108.0   22.1       130.1             1.58    9.49       17
.5             91.5         9.5     -         9.5         9.5      -        9.5         4.5.0              4 25.0          -        3.21 
_0     -         .0         La       -        8.0          8.0     -         8.0        4.2.1.              4 2.1           -      .3.01 
- 3.2        3.2         0.7    7..        8.1          -      7.6        7.6         4.4.   22         28.6             1.7     2.04.      85
*  1.1       1.1          -     0.5        0.5         0.3                0.i         0.3    2.8         3.1            0.20    0.2Ž        9 1
a.4       O.h         o.9     -         O.?         C.0    O.?         0.2         1.7     0.7        2.4.           0.05    0.1?        29
.1   4..5      6.6          1.2.    -         I.L,        1.2    5.1        6.3          7.1.   12.5       21.9            1.0&    1.56       6 7
.8   1.0       1.8         O.A    1.5.        2.3         1.2.                           7.S     6.0                        .i       -2~6     )X
.9  10.2.    13.1          3.8    2.4,       13.2         2.9   12.9       15.8        21.3   4,8.2        69.5            3J2.2    4.96       70
15 -        3.5         3.5     -          3.5                            -         1h.0      .        2.4.0            -       1.00 
0 0.7      1. -         ---                                  --                     2;:j    1.         4a.2            0.2     0.30       4.0
.5. 0.2...     5....-2- .---3.5     --        3.5                                                                             2       17 ..0  1 -3
0     -   .. 3.0           3.5     -          3.5     I 3.5   3-                       15.0      -15.0                     -       1.07 
21 132.3     306-3       291.0  138.4-   L29.4          319.0  1Q24.    Jli1         .W.2.5  691.7    24112.2            La91a11~0.87        ..j..3...
8    2.0       9.8.        5.1    1.0         6.1          -      -                    39.3     9.0       2.8.3            0.64.  '3.4.6     19
7     -        1.7         1.5     -          .1.5        1.1     -          .1         8.0      -         8.0                    0.57 
2    3.3      32.5        31.1    3.4.       34..5       25.1    5.0       30.1       151.2.   25.2       176.6            1.h0    2.61      14.
_____    -  -         -       -         -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12-.7  12.2  - 22..9  &.~L    1.78      49y
2.    .3      U.          37.7    4.4        4.2.1       26.2    5.0~   31.2j          219.2  4.6.1       165.7            3.31   18.98      17
aid tra.m move,maat control                                    a/ Include. ta1ecowam.aLct1oai 373ta6o an in    onci the
following 11am.:
a)    .  .  .                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1), fIsi.anula) Si kcci-Edtrn.-KapiJilo-8ba1p.i.,  border (330 kmn)
(11) Sivas.Sa,imsn 0150 3m)
girfBar-dirma subject to
cm)
2crder (827 km)



F-t1:    ,.aLs Whi..,.C-o b. SW
3. 1         yro~vr a                  .
3.1.3       lm!-    rr-          t.-.
3.2 .1 I  N'    irogn. .,:o            t
.1.2      *      .           .                   -
~~~t1oe0   r                   -           -                  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.' -  .                  . .          : J    .     -.2.
3.1.         2,:             .      '1 .            t.
3. h.1  L     forp.     3I      ,ij)        -                                                -            ..g
3.3.                                   -                                       ---.                                       .                    -.-
L    I      .-                                                      -           .                                -r..                         . ..
3.6  Mar.  fa ,    r. - i " ,                               . aaa     25rooa  ear
4.21.2 ;I-   .;,
L      I.5 .13...                    .o.to   UICI
0.1         t.71en,ao       o           .ai.f
L. 2.2     LocrcUs4ri             s    tne         n
from    L.,vnia zh -irvos                            1..        z2.5                                       2  .                      .           .       .                                   
0.2.1  ltattaatloa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   07                                                                                                                                         .
-roi:i    sr                                           .       58.                               1.3      '.                                  .8                            .           . 
L.L    acMhirery                                              -           --                                                                                                                           C,. .    A
:ota .2-  oo A         0Cr                ....      . 5 M     U....                                         1.0                                6.4    I.,.
L.35.1      -aan.          o      -o,    -r -r OcLir
of-- cocoa,                             .-                                                          2.2     1.6                     !'         O.2    1.11                               0.        .
h.3.       51'.o04.ry  ot          r    Att.brroa
of  diesr2  Iooororr.en.,  -    -                               2.0     0.0                     - .1       i,.j    u.,                     .-        u.       1.07
0  33  velod    o.0,                                                 -Ci)                                                             .          .r-  .i- 
1.3.0  HacObocrlr  tad   arn,  eon  r3.2                                                                   3,.3 a.ir4o.
197____-                                                ____                  -21                       0?                                           .     



LI log"  aswinq  a* ao                                        8AMM     la I. 81211431
2.972-1977         1olaLtp
P97            21.0    1.6    '7                21.1    13*6       7r2. .122.4    3.7                              21.3    63.1    k3.4                 16.5.   3.3v0        7.'2             Li
-               ~~        ~~~             ~~-  -  -  --                                     3        -.0                  1..    UAfz      0.2
-    221    ~~~~~~  Q.'  ~~~~~~a    ~ ~~2          5?s    5~~~3.2.                 52.1*     25.3                        l 1."1     p7
Sfii.    U-0              Q~9.  .1*3                       15
*  -  -    .      .                 -       .       .                -             ~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12.5  L2 Q .S,
2.        .      .              2..        1     .                2.. .,   2.2..                           11.       2.8                          .2
0                                                                                                                                                          22-Q.A5 0  S0.32
~   ~.1. 1.23.                             .2 .7    *1tl  12.         .... '1.1  1L27.0                       L.    1777.t   7W0.?                     F .,, S2 3.  l 
0.0             1.       10.5   5.0              ..      15.4   k.0                1.i  Id.,3                       ..       22     2.                     ;2     kJ.           -22
-  .  .                .    10~~~~~~~~I. 6  2.5            i.      3.."
-  ~ ~ .C    ~    .                        3.3    -                 -.'  .3.3       -                 2    11.5 -3. 
-                               .       .11.6                            1.0    1 r                    ..
.................:~-    1~.    ~.0         Z~2.....j.2.....                213        -             2..   11. 6                               .*.  1,-4        :. .7            17 
GA~~                                                                                  ~ .      . .- .                   .       1.1                   ,.    027          .*
-~~~~  .  04    -.  ~~~~~~~~~~~     -       C               -               .        1.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 13..        122.f ........ 
-.6    0.4.  1.0                A3       -      -                 .                               -       0.8    11.1                   113    .7            .t
1.0        -2~~~~1 __ ~  -'V                         3. -  2.5      _                 27       .2                       VA      70                    "      OS        -.
" 9.                                    Ž1.1.                 *.* -_                37     C.A                      11 3.6   lQ2.2               11.1l21    . o      10.13             72
0l.8             1.1      0.1   1.7              D. .3   0.5                         .    0.04*   3.1               I.    1.0         3.9                  1.3y  O.:a        0.35              d
0.5              '1       0.j   1.0               .3        .                                                                2.6      2.2                  L.a  o2.;i        0.34.             1.4
.        .8       .                                                                                                1         .o  .                1.0               O .0.77
0.8  LL      ga      --               .oL    Q..1 CI                  . 0 j             -                2       1.8     lA~ 7. . pe                             0.21              38
2.                                                        0.1.  0.6                1I.C    0.6    (,1         .1            6.3      7.2                  L1.(  pj...t       0. P              53
-  .          .         .~~            ~       ~~       ~~~ .  .    .-                    .0              6               0               0.1Li
-        -       ~~~~~~~5.0                      5.0    -          O:.K
*  -  -  -   .                                                        -      ~~~~       ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.0  -1.0  0.0 1 
1.1              1.              0.2              .2       -     2.7          *                     --                      01       5.0                   5..035            03
o.,~~~~~ 1                                                                                                           . 41
1.4             1.'      0.1   0.5                .        .    0.9                7.             0.6               0.6     (.3      5.0                   5.3   0.' .6      0.3e              9
2.8  2.5   LA     -                  .1   2.6                       x        4,    .5,              m-;    idt.a                   Y.3                 2.5,              1.
~~   ____________________   " '  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   -   -   '.-   .z z. L ....~~~~. L .......   '~~~   xss.s   x~~~.o                                  1.5



iL6t tjdV
k,              I                                                                               ... ... ......
op                                   T"j.          C"--    W,', -,.Li                                                'L,7 -1                                                                                                  .d
j.                           - d   j                                                                        44 P--d., -d                    I- 1-4  .1
i'T'                                               e,        ','I' I       Z' 7
C                                                                                                                                                                                Vw
1, -4
1,3
4                                                                                                                                         Vzl
L'Z'Z
1:Z
53          .6
4-4
Z'V
.--tv
A
M7



p~~~~~~~~~~~t8¶ F.
I '  -3.6  .  .    -    -       -          -                                        .   0.3.7~~~~~~~~~~~~lb-w  1.r"   Ia 03-T    .
P*- ".ti    .l   1-1    I                                                                               '8-92                       .9 
uki-f ~*. .    2.- 6    -ihu    .wh.          w                                              9        8                      .7            .13.
'.0  35   ~~~~~~~~   -  -  0.0        3.0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            -~13         2           -.S    -                 ,.7<
1.5  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~       -           .c-
1.f ~      ~         ~        *                                                                       1          .
14-    2                                 - L..;.2  -,.L                                                             -3             .2        04.7              ;
300.1   123.3   l.3~~,. 7  91.1.1.   L~~o.'  1.93.1.  5.i. I  2.  o4,.      L37 7.      . ' :.'.               14 1       u.Zx                5.
21.0    33.6  40.4.  70.4    11.,  33.3       7'~~~ ~~~.l  I         2..       9.3       0.        4..           11.33       14.3J I 
0.7  1.0  2.11     -       -          -          -~~~~~~Ll.   -..     4           9 4...   195       '..                                          38.
12-      -                              .          .          -                                  7.      -.        7.37                      C..2
119.     -                                                               U01.2 - 1.CoI-.       792.3      *.      31.32..15 
0.0  2.2   7.2            -~9.- U~.       ,;-A      'v.        it -       41         1.0         917.   '12.2.           491 40        .0
611.    77.. o...         O.       8.        *0.7    '-9.1         30.5        al.7       70. 1 33?..   9;3.3              1.1~          LI87 04          31
716 8.   9.6          ?L. 5   2.I.6      970.7      270.4       80        8.         L69.0    154.9                      79        2.14 IA            1
2l.:5   077.     364       .6 37.1      . 10.1     6.20.       4.6.     .30.0     55.        035.1    1.9o.       33.1..         C'3.       1 20.41 
3013    7.73.   1908          011. I,4          1.5.- f.2            - 1 .1..3    16c.1.    40..o   6e.5o.         10.32        1 V 6      43.11               LO
*   ~~~r----------- ~~~~~~~~~~              ---    ..  -- -             ___ -__-_971.,                                                               T
'1L..    2Y7.'.    AZ.6        to2.     34.0    ~     .  1.0.  ?4.7     10.5.       -79.6      320.7     M.26.     a10                       '10 5 
T7.2    OX.7      A9...        224."   7.43        94.7.3    38.21        Z.93     j'..        78.3      0.15.    4'.03.9
7816. 2-.00   LO7.31           750.4   )DI. I    105L4.9       8308    -31-.0      711.7  - .50.15  173.2    57778                                    0-
-20.    90. pypo   ,~3VS.8   64o.1. 0!W.4          1,ol6.5 .0. 7.. of7, 30.. 13.11.  .y7             Sb  .          "ad3  1.,l   186.I.        -?7
19774 .~  6  0%  o 107  ...  1977  to.  117      1770,tt   I 700110 30643. 0050 by713~    .~  13. i-'. 9o1871, *niOy 5



P~0z6  0060         T 1U07.
fL .1111o                                    US$ .1111.. !.q..l,J"I                      T I.rlli..  .q1o t   fl .0.1..               qs1aln
lolOl  P~~~~10L   70091                Io~~~..I      9-to1n
008. '  ~k-  ..Itoho         181.2      47(.C            W1~.I                   73            87                 2.1.09              11.0 0          11.0          107.Z         l,.1'
- L. yn. .0d                      lin .  7~    71.7            112..                  10.11.         1.7551..                                                             21.2           1.!2
htann    f nrlŽf-.r   'IO
.q.1p".0. F.O tr.k ..ft -rS
.9.taII.tlot or   .1500110 LOS 008 ~  ~           ??.tU.1%                             I.L
1.1              .                   06             0.07               0.oa                                                             -.
'I~~~~~~~~~~~"7  -                                                                                                             .                ll   .
*-      wu (1. 0rt I so  :.-t II,        .         18.0           j0.6.Lo0                               1.29               7.2                                                 7.           1.29
2.7.0   10.0  OIl  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           2.70         ~~~   12.051.0                                                         12
..7   .r,lon
091*v*R,   .~~~~,  to ~177.1.          2(1.0            oS.,23.01                            11.50            -  2.0 53-
I.4    09 noon..I2 CK r. t
1595 55401000 55,050..  SI.A     1ff.            227.8                  6.86           1.271               7.'?
..*o .......  so0,015  Ž.R                  20.7            I16.0                  7.S6          0.13                l.7 *                                              I .:,(I
o..  og,. .  .0        .2            317.h                 17.90          6.73               42..3                                               87.2          6.21
120              15                                  00                  00                                                 12.5          C.19
1011104 lOoro  0.1.0  955.*0      1.111..'                 7~~~~ ~ ~~7.11.  2,,.09           83. 12                                            176.1           91 6,
.01111 7.5  or      -. -.-2010. 1                                                                 C25                   . 9
t.110                                            AP50o.1                                                .Ak2
r..t- 0099    ..                             -(.6                                                                     .3.                                                  
01506 --9 rt  Uroo.00007.7                    11.             , L'o                  1.498          .2       1.         91 .                                                             -h1.  ' 
5     -o    - Z .-i0..           2.4        11Ž.2            2(.7                    2.71          1.09               10.20T.
plnt,..01   r50n.                1.1        10.0             I9.73                 0.8            0.76                111176                                                          0
?rn6aotlm  P.001101.  ?.122  .0 1177              15.                   8.77           C.        0.0 9    16.2                                A.7.                          r. .2L.
iI0.O0.Ofl0.0..lay.~       1.976.                     2    1.1.               12.1I           51.18                3.07400                             O
?o.W                                          orI1IO  .  .8  3,18.3                   0.68,         66.115              15.09                  L.0          1               51.9          I.7
51ol0¶ .at.~~~                   .11 -2. Tb-1.PP    ,2-     i-W..1    dt.    W    -t-17.T    0.,il-
-f A-     -k.h.p. W bhitb.7.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.1
F.'.Oal.C f7~0.  .0,                   7.                            .                     .2            -07
Aprl 17   no  'n.Os.2                      6772170                                                                              70 1 



IURKEY                                            TABLE 1 2
Turkish 3.&ata iaRilvays (TCDD)
,selnuc.          rineboe- .d 1:et Loss 1967-1971 5    re1ogteI t,  .uD)
1967       1968       1969       1970       1971
REVENUE                                                                  (Turkish Lira Thousands)
I.  Operating:   Passenger and Baggage                    194,502    203,307   216,357   222,390   ?29,049
Freight                                594,784    604,200  .632,o69   738,217   773,070
Other Traffic 1J                         31,972      27,635    38,217    65,705    6L,421
Ports and Piers                        125,645    152,657   168,070   213,052   242,817
Government reimbursement of track         -           -          -
:aintenance repair expenses                                                            47"
Total                               946,903    987,798 1,054,7131 1,219,364 1,6147,8314
II.  Receipts from investments                                 63           84        143        120        124
III. Interest and commission                                3,189       2,052      2,329    31,797        5,971
IV. Refunds etc. obtained                                  1,375       3,152      1,302      6,759       1,?51i
V. Other ievenue (includes quay dues credited           1914,789    241,396   277,341   289,314   356,798
to TCMD since 1967)
VI.    Total revonue                                   1,146,319  1,234,482 1,335,828 1,547,35L 2,011,981
EXPENSES
I.   Operating expenses:
Administrative expenses including ports    236,L78    252,199   259,2414  553,381   291,3!.'6
Ehployer'- obligations                         190,772    205,0o4   251,739   319,674   410,205
Operational and maintenance of track and
infrastructure                               .57,295    264,887   298,671   312,43L   387,603
Operation and maintenance of traction          530,750    588,762   673,996   7L2,602   988,644
Traffic expenses                               133,983    148,472   166,867   202,744   287,060
Ports and Piers                                 55,821      69,687   104,302   134,527   150,188
Total                                    1,405,109  1,529,011 1,754,819 2,265,812 2,515,0C6
II.   Interest covmission and exchange losses, etV.   112,911    136,438   161,8L1   182,219   189,696
III. Other expenses (including tax on railway
transport)                        96,273      49,229    87,698    90,455    92,804
iV.     Total E-tnn                                    1,'' l ,,x93  1l,714,i7' -,004,358 2,538,036 2,797,506
Z -: uyhich
Staff an' Liheur                    771,409    O39M9t1         54,51L  ,1,314,t36 1,496, P35
Material                             333,475    368,66'   434,751   437,888   610,351
Other  /                             509,1o49    506,032   580,093   667,762   690,3197
V. Net Loss                                             467,974    180,196   668,530   990,682   785,5252/
Notes: - / Exrludes restaurant car proceeds, school and health charge receipts vhich are included under other
revenue
2J Includes depreciation, tax, interest, insurance.
V/ Would be 1,124,002 if Oovernzment reimbursement towards track repair and maintenance is excluded.
Seurce: TOPD
April 1973



TER KEY
TURKISSh STATE RAILWAYS 'TCPD)
RAILWAY REVENIE. tXPENSES AND NET INCOME (LOSS)-ACT8AL 1969-1971 'RECONSTRUCTEDi- ORECAST 1972-1978
(TVH Million)
1969           1970        1971          197:          1973        1974         1975        i97S        1977        1978
---------Actual ---------            ---------------------------------Foretast-------------------------------
I.  OPERATING REVENtE
1.  Freight                                     632.1           738.2       773.1         791.1         805.9       850.7       875.5    1.1110.    1,128.3    1,200.0
2.  Passenger and Baggage                       216.4           222.4       229.1         230.7         190.8       171.8        162.9       158.6       159.5       159.5
3.  Other                                         38.7           66.6        85.9          84.6          84.6        85.0         8S.O        85.0        88.0        d6.0
4.  Additional, tariff changes                     -              -           -            45.6         273.1        284.8       6l1.1       £ 5;.8      2L8.1       800.7
5.  Total Operating Revenue                     887.2         1,027.2    1,088.1        I.iS2.G       135T4.      1,392.3      1.57L.5    1,'o6.4    2,133.7    2,2!4.2
11.  CPERATING EXPENSES
1. Working Expenses                           1,505.4         1,958.4    2,192.3        2,339.8       7,33R.2    2,328.7    2,340.3    2.385.7    2,355.7    2,370.7
of which:
(a)  Staff and Labor                        928.5        1,347.0    1,399.1        1,435.5        1,418.5    1,401.3      1,384.8     1,380.7    1,380.7    1,380.7
(b)  Fuel                                   264.3          279.2       408.2         470.0          465.0       450.0       445 0       470.0       425.0       425.0
(c)  Other Material                         169.9          161.0       210.9         247.3          254.7       262.4       270.5       285.0       290.0       295.0
(d)  Other (including tax)                  142.7          171.2       174.1          187.0         200.0       215.0       240.0       250.0       260.0        270.0
2.  Depreciation                                 176.4          196.3       202.1         265.0         312.0        375.0       445.0       560.0       638.0       680.0
3.  Total Operating Expenses                  1,681.8         2,154.7    2,394.4        2,604.8       2,650.2    2,703.7    2.78S 3    2,945.7    2,913.7    3,n50.7
:1.  1.  WORKING LOSS (CAIN)                               618.2          931.2    1,104.2         1,187.8         983.8       936.4       765.a       L79.3       ?7          I
2.  LESS REDUCTION OF LOSSES IN RESPECT)                --                                                     10.0        40,0        70.0       100.0       130.0       :VO n
or UNECONOMIC LINES AND SERVICES
3.  NET WORKING LOSS tGAIN)                           618.2          931.2    1,104,2         1,187.R         973.8       896.4       695.8       179.3        91.        ,,. V
\,  NET OPERATING REvENUrE (LOSSN                         (794.6)      (1,117,5). (1,306.3)        1,452.S)    (1,285.81   1,2271.4)  r1,11,8)    ;919.3)    (729.e)    (-32.5,
V.  NONOPERATING REVENtE (NET)                              97.1          129.7       122.7         120.0         120.0        120.0       120.0       170.0       120.0       120.0
'1.  INTEREST                                              144.2          15?.0        173.4         125.2         127,       140.5       152.4       176.,'      144.o        71.0
T. NET INCOl!F (LOSS)                                     (841.7)      (1.150.8)  (1,357.0       (1.458.0)    (1.293.:)  (1,201.9)  (1,l73.2)    (9i.5.)  ;ioL.   , '2e. )
GOVERNMF.NT - Reimbursement of Track Maintenance
6. Repair Under Law 1381                                            338.5         358.1         400.0'      400. '      400(0       400 0       404.0  0    4o.0
- Pavent of !nterest or. Stare
Investment Bank Loans, Under Law 13S1                              ,15,.5        114.3         100.8        8.    7?,7              63.4   8     4.7         50.11
RATIOS:    Workinc Patio   (Based on 111-3)           169.7           190,7       201.5         2O] .         !72        1.'          .L'. 1.0.3             1OL.L         .?
Operating Ratio.                          189.6           209.8       220.1          2'.               7   S      2                  4.            1.3 ..      -'._
urce:  TCDD, and Mission Estrmat
ril 1971



Turkish State HailvayS (C7101
balu.7nc :4h.'t Data - Actuanl.; 1969-1971  and Av,Rly:i.. f  '_2I  1.tn ;j '..
AS!;ICr5                                                    '!69          1RJ{()  _     IŽ2 l                A;a]v.:.- ,f 1)]I lb.a
ACtMAL -                         a i -y  F-c Iory '
1.  Curr-n' AseI.s
(a)  Ca(nh and Pank                                 E,tdSl       65,S'AI       1.9,1?      1 ',ll4A                S 9J i
(b)  Propaymtn.                                     1,610         1,870         5,?32             ; '                1r,
(c)  Acec-nt. rectivahlo                           hl,1310      353,512      510, 376           I,?,207          '.,&, 1lI
(d)  Inventories       I                          L15,702       ,l18,6U        67,5$87           371,hto        i % !)9,            l '
(e)  Olher current assets                        ll,L107       201,00P      171f,995                            1 I 3A 13      VI.,'I)I
.1,ss roser/en for receivable            (-) 23,78i (-!  7,7?1 ( -)  19,1 t          (     I) 19, i;-  (-)    ?.'7   C-)    1
Total curr.nt a£set3                        8I6,99,    1,2?1,0?3   1,!.61, 31,'.        1,21,             :-, .           1','-
7.  Non current receivable
Bagdad Railway                               ,95,631    1,169,66Z    1, 378,./-'        1, 7.,4
Orher                                          8, r.8        9,312   9,1403
Less reserves                          (-1,u03,61  (-I,f1i,6ls?(-)l,336,62?   C-) 1,w-'Y 
Tj,tl Ncn cvrre.%t, r.cjivable                   a.8s        1,332        1,42 1',
3.  Fixed Assets
Cross ftied assets                        Sb6fi7-        ,96,oS    6,ot,, t             *.,  !, ..            'i         .
Less accurnulated depreciavion       (   I tid,8l7(,cP7,62"(-)?,3L222   (-) 2,.ol,2yS                 (-)   *9,f.i (-)  .
41st rixe  a, ets                         3, 598, 7R    3,718,l107   3,755,211          3,0C0,77J          14,           '
W'-rks  tr , ...rogress                      27h ,L28         .         . z915288,32'-    22?,1Pr,      >    ;S- *
TOTAL A:;i2-'.                                     1,r;5,099   5,210,177   5,505,129            L,538,52,.          .. ,, ;        -
1 iA9ILTTIFS
1.  Current liabilities                               .951,720      820,585       898,682           9, '9!,            b3"            ,
2.  ';Vn current liabilities                            l1.,493     323,387       31l,673 /         311,4'73 I
7. Long term debt -
Local                        2,085,W19   2,581.,157   1,729,200           1,729,2'C              _ 
Foreign                         36,282       85,c05       137,6bO           137,640              -             _
Total                       2,121,M71    2,669,162   1,866,BLO            I,a66m, eo             -
;,.  Reserves (Insurance)                               22,L22       25,993        33,521            32,917              6 ,-
,.  (apital                                         1,7L1.,193   1,371,050   :,3941,1.l3         1,L8,0 3,c          367,537      51.5,5
L  Authorized capital                   2,500,000   2,500,C00   8,o0o,oWo
Llxcess paid capital                   897,79,      697,588         -
Accumulated deficit             (-) l,569,'05(-)1,45S) 3  C-;  ,78)929
Reaiburaene.at of defLit -At,,R) '; 1                i.19;        Sit,15,
Unpaid capital                           _             _   (-)5,33, r.13
-OTL LIADILITIKS                                   .,7'5, 'n  -,,210,177   5,707,l?7i
RATTS:
'urrsnt Assets/Current Liabilities                     1.)           1.'
less lnvntcy,s/olrrsnt Liabilities                     0'.5          0.7         o.8
Debt/EFui ty                                         55/f5          66/,34      4h/56
Notes: :/SKows the culative deficit of th.e Bagdad line which the T1DD have a2rdmnistered ror Il,.: (-.verrasirt.  Sinr- '3.er:
is no likelihood of this being recovered from the Bagdad Railways Co., a res.rve provisVin is r.-.de.
?/ Covers mostly some obligations arising from  the 1970 personnel law.
Soarce: TCDD
April 1973



TABLE 15
TURXEY
TUBAISH STATE KAlLWAYS (TCDD)
TCDD Sumary BPalance Sleet Forecast - 1972-1971
(TL Miilion)
ACTUAL
1971       1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977
ASSETS
1. Current Assets
Casil                        19.2        40.2        60.2        60.2        60.2        60.2        60.2
Inventory                   767.6       760.9       755.0       750.0       750.0      745.0       740.0
Other                       673.6       709.0       730.3       752.2       774.7       798.0       822.0
Total                     1,460.4     1,509.1    1.545.5    1,562.4    1,'i84.9    :,603.2    1,622.2
2.  Noncurrent Receivable           1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2         1.2
3. Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets        6,069.4    7,794.6    8,988.4   10,284.6   11,777.8   14,552 8   16,0('3.1
Less Acctwnulated
Depreciation           27,314.2    2.603.3    2,947.1    3,355.1    3,834.4    4,428.8    5,102.0
Net Fixed Assets          3,155.2    5,191.3    6,041.3    6,929.5    7,943.4   10,124.0   10,9S1.3
Works in progress           288.3       180.6       300.4       385.3       393.2      406.9        436.1
TOTAL ASs-ETS       5,505.1    6,882.2    7,888.4    8,878.4    9,922.7   12,135.3   13,020.8
LIABILITIES
1.  Current Liabilities           898.7       916.6       916.6       911.6       915.6       920.6       926.6
2.  N,ncurrent Liabilities        311.7       311.7       311.7       311.7       311.7       311.7       311.7
3.  Long-term Debt:
Foreign                     137.6       176.9       477.8       937.6    1,343.1    1,745.9    2,157.     
Local                     1,729.2    1,526.2    1,309.8    1,108.4          972.7      846.8        727.7 
Total                     1,866.8    1,703.1    1,787.6    2,046.0    2,315.8    2,592.7    2,885.2
4.  Reserves (Insurance)           33.5        38.5        43.5        48.5        53.5        58.5        63.5
5. Equity                       2,394.4    3,912.3    4,829.0    5.560.6    6,32-  1    8.251.8    b,833.4 
TOIAL LIABILITIES  5,505.1    6,882.2    7,888.4    8.878.4    9.922.7   12.135.3   13.020.8
RATIOS
'urrent A-sets/Cunrt-rt
.iabi±Utles                   1.63        1.65       ,69         1.71        1.73        1.74        1.75
Zurrunt Assets .oss Znver-    0.77          0.82        0 86        0.89        0.91        0.93        0 95
tory/C,irrent Li. hilltie- 
Debt/Equity                   44/56       30/70       27/73       27/73       27/73       24/76       25/75
NOTE:  The Balance Sheet covers the enterprise including ports.  Port investments
included in fixed assets and t-ansfers from Public Works Ministry to lCL)I)
are as follows:
Port Investments          Transfers
1972 -  6.0                 963.1
1973 - 39.15                206.0
1974 - 5".95                  -
1975 - 25.0                 150.G
1976 - 12.0               1,346.0
1977 -  4.0 M
Source: TCDD, and Mission Zstimates



TURK1 Y
TURKISH STATE RAILWAYS (TCDD)
Cash Flov Forecast 1972-1977
(fL MillIlon)
1972         1913          1974          1975          1976          1977
FltmS REQUIRED
A.  Investment - Local                                500.7         754.6         927.3        964.6       1,071.4       1,163.1
- Foreign                             167.7         338.8        435.7         406.2         406.5         443.1
- Total                               663.4      1,093.4       1.363.0       1.370.8       1,477.9       1,60f.2
S. Debt Service - Interest                            125.2         127.9        140.5         152.4         176.2         194.9
- Repayment                         203.7        217.1         202.1         136.4         129.6         150.2
- Total                             328.9        345,0         342.6         288.8         305.8         345.1
C. Incresae (Decrease) In Working
Capital, Excluding Cash                          9.8           15.6         23.0          17.5          13.3          13.0
D. Net Working Loss                                 1,87.8          973.8         896.4        695.G         379.3          91.6
TOTAL FNNDS RIEUIRED                           2.189.9      2.427.6       2,625.0       2,372.9       2,176.3       2,056.1
FUNDS AVAILAILE
From Railways . Not Nonoperating Revenue              120.0         120.0         120.0        120.0         120.0         12D.0
- Increase in Insurance Reserves         5.0           5.0           5.0           5.0          5.0
- Total                                125.0         125,0        125.0          125.0        125,0         125.0
Borrowing -
IBI  Proposed Loan                               -           204.4         355.6          98.0                         -
European Investment Bank and French
Bilateral Aid                                 40.0           97.2         104.9          94.1          79.1          86.9
Other Assistance from Various
International Sources                          .              _             .           214.1         327.4         356.2
Total                                            40.0         301.6         460.5          406.2        406.5         443.1
Coverrment                                          2,045,9       2,oZ 0        2,039.5       1,ljl.7       i,61U,8       1,L3.c
Cash at BeginninS of Year                         19.2         40.2          60.2         .60.2          bO.2          60.2
Cash at End of Year                               40.2         60.2          60.2          60.2          60.2          60.2
NOTE:  (1)  The above represents the position of the RailwayS only, the wrking end the invesctents
of TCDD ports are not included.
(2i  Invesrnenra do nor include ducfed etc. froe  1973. as TCDD exermrpte  from such
dutien from thia date.
Source:  TCDD and MNi3SoO Estimates
April 1973



ANNEX 1
l'age 1
TITRKEY
Turkish State Railwavs (TCDf)
Memorandum of Unde_standin  cnPlancf Action
for Transport Coordination in Turkey
I.        Introduction
Turkey has undertaken a Transport Coord'nation and Railway Study
financed by the UNDP with the World Bank as the executing agency. The
Italian firm of consultants, ITALCONSULT, is carrying out the Study and
their -eports on the transport coordination aspects of the Study have been
submitted. They are: the Interim Report (October 1969), the Summary Report
(January 1970) and the Addendum to the Interim and Summary Reports (March
1970).
The Government is in general agreement with the major recommenda-
tions of the Consultants. This Memorandum lists these major recommendations
which the Government intends to implement, and this Memorandum is the in-
strument by which the Government's intention is communicated to the World
Bank.
II.       Establishment of Transport Coordination Agency
The Government accepts the Consultants' recommendation that the
establishment of a Transport Coordination Agency (TCA) should proceed on an
"evolutionary" basis:  i.e., a small "nucleus" group of transport experts
consisting of 10 professional staff members of various disciplines should be
recruited to begin the operation of TCA with the assistance of the Consultants,
and this group would be expanded to develop into a full-fledged agency by
about the end of 1970. It is now decided that TCA, during the evolutionary
period, would be attached to the State Planning Organization (SPO) of the
Prime Minister's Office and the Undersecretary in charge of SPO is appointed
as the Interim Transport Coordinator. The organization of the TCA, however,
is distinctly separate from the SPO.
Four professional members of the "nucleus" group are now working,
and the Government intends to complete the recruitment of this group by
ibout September 1970. Appropriate draft legislation for the permanent estab-
lishment of TCA would be prepared by the "nucleus" group for legislative action
before the end of 1970.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
III.      Formulation of Transport Policy
The Government recognizes thie importance of formulating an un-
ambiguous and consistent transport policy whicH would ensure rational
allocation of resources in the transport sector. The immediate task of the
TCA would be to carry out a review of Turkish transport policy provisions
(explicit or implicit) in existing laws, plans, regulations, and operating
ractices.  based on this review, together with other relc.vant studies, TCA
would iormulate a body of clear and consistent policies to be presented to
the appropriate Government authority for approval.  The draft policy state-
rent should be ready before the end of 1970.
IV.       Ileorganization of the Ministry of Communications
It is intended that the part of the 'linistry of Communications
which is concerned with transport matters would be reorganized following
broadly tlhe Consultants' recommendatioas.  Pr4ncipally, the reorganization
concerns:  (1) the realignment of the transport part of the Ministry into
four main departments for railways, water transport, nighways and for air
transport, redistributing amonz them t:.e functions of the existing depart-
=-   ents for Land Transport, Commerce and Taritfs, and Ports and tlarbors, and
(2) in view of the vastly increased size andIt1 complexity of Turkey's transport
-iysteri, the establishment of regional organizations of the MSinistry providing
.,or some decentralization of transport administration.
The draft law for the reorganization of the Ministry would be pre-
Pared jointly by the "nucleus" group ot thl  TCA and the staff of the Ministry
ot Comiaunications before the end of 197u, and it would be submitted to
Parliament for action during 1971.
V.        Other Mlodifications of Organic Law
An examination would be made of the organic statutes of other
relevant ministries, and of other types of organizations, in order to
asnertain what, if any, changes are required for consistency withi the
cinccpt of coordination.
Drafts of appropriate amendments to existing organic laws would
:. prepared jointly by the "nucleus" group of TCA and staffs of the rele-
vant ministries and agencies and would be submitted to S'arlianent for action
during 1971.
~' I.     Development of Management Information System
The Government recognizes that accurate and current information
'!1 the transport system and its markets is a pre-requisite of efficient
transport coordination. Hence, it considers development and supervision of



ANNEX I
Page 3
a transport management information system to be one of the major permanent
tasks of the TCA -- one tlhat should be started early and as a matter of high
priority.
The first steps in this undertaking would include:
(a) Identification of the elements of essential information required
by management at all levels.
(b, Collection of existing forms, instructions and procedures
for supplying data.
(c) Development of criteria for maintenance of such records and
financial accounts as are needed to ensure the desired
degree of compatibility of data among the several modes.
(d) Design, pre-test and promulgation of reporting procedures and
plans for tabulation, summarization and dissenination.
The development of the lianagement Information System will be
carried out in close collaboration with the State Institute of Statistics.
It is the intention of the Government that by the end of 1970 the
first two of the above steps would have been taken and a program drawn up
for the other two.  Within the above priorities, special attention would be
given to developing a modern data system for the State Railways (TCDD), which
should be prepared jointly by the TCA and TCDD.
VII.      Import Restrictions on Transport Equipment
In all modes Turkey's vehicle fleet includes over-aged veihicles.
Without sufficient replaccment the fleet will continue to age and as a
result operational costs and the need for replacement parts will rise. It
is important, therefore, to take measures that will result in the injection
of new vehicles into the fleet at a rate sufficient to bring about the desired
degree of modernization.
One of the factors that may limit vehicle replacement is the need
to import either complete vehicles or the component parts used in domestic
assembly of vehiicles. Various types of import restrictions - e.g. foreign
exchange controls, customs duties, and import quotas - may at times have
the effect of rationing the input of new vehicles.
Therefore, a priority task for the TCA "nucleus" group is to
conduct a thorough study of the impact of such import restrictions on the
supply of and demand for l.ow vehicles and related replacement parts. The
study should look to possible modifications of import restriction policies
and regulations where appropriate in the transport sector. It should be
initiated in 1970 and be completed in 1971.



ANNEX I
Page 4
As to railroad equipment, procurement abroad would be authorized
to enable the TCDD to carry out its modernization program at the lowest cost
and according to a time schedule to be prepared by TCDD and approved by the
Government.
VIII.           User Chargers
The Government recognizes the importance of establishing a rational
system of user ch.arges for all modes, paying prioritv attention to highway
user charges, in order to ensure both sound development and better utiliza-
tion of all transport modes, particularly road transport.  To this end it is
intended to:
(a)  carry out, as an interim measure, a limited study by the
"nucleus" group of TCA on the possibility of raising the
annual taxes on commercial road vehicles and, also, re-
viewing other relevant measures.  The results of the study
would be reviewed by appropriate (;overnmenE agencies and
submitted for enactment during 1971.
(b)  prepare (by the "nucleus" group of TCA) terms of
reference for a more detailed study of user charges
for all modes.
Di.       1iighway Traffic Problems
The Government intends to hold a symposium oii the technical,
economic and social aspects of highway traffic in the Fall of 1970.  The
"nucleus" group will use the findings of the symposium as a basis for the
development of a program for highway traffic improvement, to be implemented
in 1971.
REPUBLIC OF TURI(FY
August 27, 1970
By: (signed)
Authorized Representative



kYN E X 1
Page 5
Transport Coordination KorK Prnoran
The Aeenrv will uneertake the following work program  s; first
priorities:
A.   A study of the adequacy of user charges in all tr,ansport
modes, to be finished lbv November 30, 1974.
B.   A studv, in collaboration with the State Institute of
Statistics, of the adequacy of the present management
information system in the transport sector, to he finished
by November 30, 1974, with iniplermentatien bv the Agency of
the studv's main recoummendations to hbegin bv May 31, 1975.
C.   A study of import restrictions on all tranisport equtipment
and components and of the effects of these restrIctions on
fleet structure and traffic on all modes, to be finished by
May 31, 1975.
D.   The formulation, in collaberntion with other intereste.l
a'- encies, of a draft traisport nolicv statement, includin-,
a codification of existing laws, policies, reRulntions, and
practices: an attempt to reconcile conflicting provisions;
a-nd an effort to reinforce soundl princirles of cost effec-
tiveness whiere intermodal choices are involved  to be finishie;'
bv May 31, 1975.
III. Consul]tants
A team of consultants to be financed under a UNI)P grant will, on
a day-to-day basis ever a period of eirhteen months, help the Ageney to or-
fanize its work and in particular assist in the stuciv and development of the
mana-ement information system.  The eensultants will begin work by June 30,
1973.
April 1973



Page 1
TURY'-'Y
Turkish State Railwavs (TCDD)
REPUBLIC oF TMCXE:Y
Ajlication to the United Nations Development Prorram
For T,!chnical Assistance in Soecial Railuay (TCDD) 3tudies
1.   Introduction
The Government of the Republic of Turkey subr.mits to the UNDP tilt
following request for technical 3ssistance to the ;eneral 0)irectorate of
Railways (TCDD) for:
(i)  A. management studv aimed at improvements in the present
organization of ,CDD It both the headquarters ,id th;e
regional offices, and at an aporopriatc  specificatiou of
the number, responsibilities and ctualifi:ations of  ';
personnel;
(ii)  Feasihility studies of the fhandonnmcnt or ratiUn.-lizitx.1n
of uneconomic lines, services nmd stations (AttachmFnt).
The total closin<7 of a line is to be studied Lo.ether
with alecrnative, adequate transport services:
(iii)  reasiFilitv studies of construction of new Hines;
(iv)  Technical. and economic studies of the optimunt sitnallins
investment on the lines Ankara-Sivas-AJivri-i, Irmak-
Znn-luldak, 3asmane-Cigli, and Adana-Cetinkaya includin:
the sertion Tovrakkale-'.arli as 3 possible alternative
to the construction of a new line between OsrnLnive and
Maras.
The Turkish Government considers these sttudies to be of vital
importance for TCDD. They were also recommended in the ITALCONSULT final
report on Turkish Railways and accepted by the Government, is st;ted in the
CLEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ON A PLAN (F ACTION for the 'TlRKIS11 AILWAY
SYSTEMI.
If this application is accepted, the Government iopes that IBRD
will be prepared to act as the Executing Agency for these studies.



A.N XrY 2
Page 2
1I. Backrround
In 1969, the Republic of Turkey undertook, with the aid of the
C'nited :ations Development Program, a study of the conditions of TCDD with
a view to preparing a long-term program of adninistr.-tive and operational
improvements and investments.
Concurrently with the railway studv, investizations on the require-
-ients of transport coordination were undertaken, and assistance rendered to
Government in the establishment and initial orptration -f a transport coordina-
tion agency.  The International hank for Reconstruction and Development acted
-is executin  -agencv for the United Nations Devolopment Program during the
stadv and assistance periods.
TCDD has been incurring increasing financial deficits since 1959
Which imposed a heavy burden on thc Turkish Treasury.  These losses are
orizinatin". primarily fron unregulated comipetition from road transport, in-
adequate quantitv and conditio- of locomotives, rolling stocek and other
equiriment, noor n!vsi cil and 'eometric standoarls of track, redundant person-
;i., so-me social obligations and the onerttirr (if tnecen..aic lines, services
tni stations.
itudies are bein- carried out for t- establishment of a %general
,r.uisport aolicv nnd coordination -rrong v-irious modes of trtnsport and prena-
nitio   of draft lags to that effect.
A IO-  ar investment nropra' ih-ia  :1.  prcr;Dired  0n the basis of
he Censlltmt t's  lilwav T1eport and the `indio -s of the Government, covering
inter  dlia t;e -ectrsitics of renewal and bettern-ent of track, 1ocomotives,
rollin; stock and equiprent, extension of si-nallint..  The implelientation
ef the aforer entioned program  is now ')ein! con'sidered.
lomne measures have been taken by rCni) inl orc1er to reduce the
number -f personnel and cut down the operating exnenses to a dtesirable
level.  1iowever, the n'eneral belief is that further specific studies, ini
these fields will yield more consistent and cen:et  results  Ld make pos-
sible the establishmaenr of a coherent -rnd urtnimbi uous nolicy.
"LI.  Description of t!h- Project
The purpose of the oroject is to folllow wi? en rhoe Transport Lo-
.riAnation and Railway Studies by providine to the General !9irectorate of
;l'ilways (TCDD) the services of two teams of specializ?d foreign experts.
'  first tean sihould carry otut the studies indicated at point T (i) above.
ibe secondl tear should carry out the studies indicated at noiiits I (ii),
(iii) ind (iv) above.



ANNI:X 2
Page 3
Morenver, the above two teams will help the TCDI) in establishing
a fellowship program in the nature of practical training abroad for a number
of TCDD staff who will be dealing with studies and problems of similar
nature in the future.
IV. Scope of Consulting Services
(i)  A management studv ained at improvements in the organization
of TCDD
A group of experts would carry out a management studv in
the fields mentioned below and recomiend improvements if
warranted:
(a)  Detailed analysis of the present number of personnel,
their tasks, responsibilities, professional qualifi-
cations, basic salaries and other compensations of
anv kind in each of the divisions ind regional offices.
(b) A thorough investigation into the organizntional
setup of the divisions at headquarters ind at each
of the regional offices.
(c)  Reorganization and rationalization of the organiza-
tional setup both at headquarters and at the regional
offices and the statement of the reasons and expected
advantages of proposed changes.
(d)  Proposed number of nersonnel according to new setup;
job descriptions, responsibilities and qualifications
cf key personnel and the statement of the reasons and
expected advantages of proposed changes.
(e)  Determination of the total numb-er of personnel at
headquarters and at regional offices, by class, pay
scale and amount of annual expenditure, and co:nparison
with the existing situation taking into account the
results of the studies mentioned at points I (i), (ii),
(iii) and (iv) above and TCDD's rnodernization program.
(f) Proposed time schedule of implementation of the recom-
mended changes.
(ii) Feasibility studies on the abandonment or rationalization of
uneconomic lines, seivices and stations
(a) The lines to be studied are those for which the
ITALCONSULT Report of February 1971 recommended closure,
and those for which no major works would seem to be
justified (Attachment).



Page 4
(b)  The analysis of present traffic will include number of
trains per day, fluctuations in autmand for passenger
and freight services, quantity and nature of commodities
hauled, etc.  As to future traflit, the 10-year forecasts
included in the ITALCONSULT Rcpcrt will be used. Since
tihe above estimates were prepartd in 1969, they uill have
to be updated. Indications will also he given as to the
traffic trend for the decade iJb4inrinitg with tihe year 1980.
Alternative traffic growth wtSSJ.Tj0:ic':   will h'e used and
recourse to sensitiv;icv anaivsis ai1  i 'r made whe; appro-
priate.
(c)  As to thie lines and sections of lines for which rlosing
was recommended in the  KTA!.((ZS , eport, an ( conormic
analysis will be  dad.-'  ::e,,',!:t t   it;st if i ation of
such action.  Irvustniert in;i:      na:ec necrs otherwise
necessary on such lines- wtLL      vv.,I;.ated.  Thc alterna-
tive transport ziervice,  oa   ai1 urbir:, the railway
traffic on the lintc cr sti "..i .r' 1.e Lv .c a)an1doned,
will be studied a.1 i:-- .. i d '. s¶m( Lit COsti aind opera-
ting expenses evaluatt,'.                      w i imLir-;s o te.' haseo
on timely data anct infor:-; . :'rovi;inr iv thn  Gov-
ernment.  The ,usttflr;.;:.    '  ,,roodc: Aiction will
be measured by cc:iparing                   c n I:etits of keeping
the line in service witi t e   r          i   ;e .  Possible
social consequences cf t.,ojr       '   at an'flen.t s:Jall also
be  Ilustrated a  i   ti n;       .'.  A  a.         wl also
be made of the financia  -.d c;c 1.1;ori Ion enuences for
the TCUDI) of the proposce  act z ;i in -   b asis of actual
and projected casi f'. :                 ;t. tiltS.  .he program
and timing of abanao,.i:. nl    :  Ž.      reco l-eIldcE, taking
into account the tirne rutiai          r;  .,t4'roLtive trans-
port service to take cvr t;i:   ' .i
(d)  As to tihe lines on whliic fn i ia i'r    -   c !-r, ,e.re   :-ed
in the ITALCONSULT Reporr    -  : c . t!i v     '  scnsmtc
justification, analyses wil nA o  .1o :~ictr(; to ascertain
the justification of adoptir.L t,j   following alternative
meastures:
(1)  rationalization of tile lilL:; wUlicil mav include
the closing of a numh r of stations and the
abandonment of certa. n services, coupled witth
broad estimiate of inve-(t lnerts needed anti of
measures designed to irnpr'v. servlcv condiitions
and reduce operatinE costs:
(2)  closing the lines alto5u thr (sincE- an invest-
ment stop for the lines would lead eventually
to closing).



AYNIEX 2
Page 5
The justification of the above measures will be evaluated
by means of cost-benefit analyses, taking into account
the availability and costs of alternative transport serv-
ices; data and information on the alternative transport
services will be provided timely by the Government. As
discussed in point (c) above, a financial and operational
analysis of the impact of the recommended actions upon the
TCDD will also be made. A timing of implementation of the
proposed measures will also be recommended.
(e)  As a result of the studies outlined under points ii (c)
and (d) above, the closing or rationalization of lines,
stations and services will follow. Some services and a
number of stations on lines other than those indicated
in point ii (a) above appear also to be uneconomic in
view of the very little traffic. Their abandonment or
rationalization will be studied. WEere necessary, the
creation of substitute bus and truck services will be
examined and the costs and benefits of such alternative
solutions analyzed. The possible social consequences
of the proposed abandonment will also be examined as far
as possible. The timing of the proposed actions will be
examined and the impact on TCDD finances evaluated.
(f)  A detailed administrative procedure to be followed by
TCDD and Government will be prepared to determine the
annual reimbursement to the Railway of the avoidable
losses of uneconomic lines, stations or services, in
the case of the Government's decision to continue such
lines, stations or services.
(iii)  Feasibility studies of construction of new lines
The consultants will make technical, economic and financial
feasibility studies of the construction of the following new
lines:
(a) Tecer-Kangal shortcut (on Sivas-Divrigi line);
(b)  Connection of the Eregli steel mill, with
Zonguldak.
The consultants will also examine all feasible alternative
solutions such as improving existing lines, or improving
existing or constructing new roads.
The studies mentioned above will result in estimates of
the economic costs and benefits of each alternative and
will indicate the optimum economic solution. The optimum
timing of the project implementation will also be analyzed.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(iv)  Optimum siRnallinR InvestrenL
The consultants will deternine on the basis of comprehensive
technical and economic analyses, having due regardl to the
studies mentioned in point IV (ii) and (iii) above, the opti-
mum investment in signalling equipment for the lines Indicated
in I (iv). The optimumn investment for each line will be es-
tablisherd bv quantifving the costs and benefits of each alterna-
tive solution considered. Due consideration will also be given
to other factors such as safety aspects, standardization of
equipment, etc.
V.   Organization
(i)  The CGovernment requests that the project be carried out with
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as
Participating and Executing Agency for the United Nations De-
velopment Program.
(ii) It is intended that the technical assistance of separate
proups of foreign enperts would be provided by a consulting
firm under subcontract with the Executing Agency.  Separate
firms for these studies rn4ght also he considered.
(iii)  The experts shall be working in close collaboration l'ith
TCDD officials, keeping contacts with Ministry of Cor,muni-
cations, M1inistrv of Public Works and State Plannin.  Orpani-
zation (SPO). They will also discuss problems, findinps and
results, at various stayes of thieir studies, with responsible
sen'or TCDD officials, whose names will be indicated bv TCDI),
as well as with respensible officials at the Ministry of CoTn-
munications, Ministrv of Public Works and at SPO.
(iv)  Duration of the studies
Tne services of the consultants would comrence in 1')73. and
would he expected to terminate wirhin eirunt months or commpnce-
ment.
For each of the studties, a Draft Final Report shruld be sub-
mitted to the Government, TCDD and to the 111,1U within eight
months of commencement; a revised edition of the Report shall
be submittedl to the same authorities net later thran two months
after receiving the final comments from the Government, TCDT)
ancl the ID,RD.



ATTACLMENT
TO ANNEX 2
Lines on Which No Further Works Were Recommended and
Lines Which IlALCONSULT Recommended for Closure
Category I:   Lines on which no furtijer works were recomnended:
Length
%tanisa-Afyon                                            356 km
Alavunt-Ulukisla                                         604 kr
Category II:  Lines which were recommendea for closure:
Balikesir-Bandirma                                       102 km
Karakuyu-Afyon                                           114 km
Izmir-Torbali-Odenis                                     112 km
Torbali-Ortaklar                                          51 kmn
Ortaklar-Soke                                             22 I,m
Ortaklar-Aydin-Goncali                                   152 km
Goncali-Denizli                                            9 km
Goncali-Sutlas-Civril                                    136 kmI
Sutlas-Karakuvu                                           34 km
Karakuyu-Gumusgun                                         33 Im
Cumusgun-Egridir                                          47 km
Gumusgun-Burdur                                           24 km
Bozanonu-Isparta                                          13 kI
Cobanbey-Nusaybin                                        382 km
.1arli-Karkamis                                          175 km
Senyurt-Mardin                                            24 km
April 1973



TURKISH RAILWAY ORGANIZATION
_
l  _       E   _;_      l
X X X
* * , . * _ .
to M . 1 1 M.'M I..'*.' t s M@ v.vf .se *s*tw.e s.W Mes
....... .... ,._ .. M005 ...... ' *t DD L).l . , t.<_.F. M4 . e. .. O- FC t}D | | V f.s.. O. g ........... g 6 *- .,, .. ,. - t .. .- ' t h O ...... T .T.1 1 A .,.,, * t1--t.oR
R .... K
I
. .. _,o, 
I 1E
*                _ _ _   _ §                           X                    s  "                l
-<3    P I A;. t +. . l                                     ; X =                                                                | 9 o '- F 
_ u .. __ __ . ____I
e         _:_1         - 1      '';''C '    H            ;1;  4 1  H                   I   I ''"'''"""'''"'''' F  -                   _
=1 ie ss I 18 2 e a "swi I I,,,,V60 , +
-H "'''"v"'''''X' I ,1' ' '''''''''''''' 1 < I H '-;-- l
_
I= L 0 I
_n_ ,,4 2::.'''"' 1 I
_ ' _|_
r - =
I .^ ;; 7 . _ _ 
J _ : :
.... ' .. ....
..... ...... _ 
t                                               S ::                                              i':"
.... ......
,2 .
t ... . ..
' ;gX-tF*S, , J " os - { t  , ¢ S S ___ _



Page 1
TURKgY
Turkish State Railwavs (TCh¶
Establishment of a Traffic Costing System and
Inplementation of Tariff Reform
Terms of Pef-reince
I.   C1boetives
The purnose of the consultants' services is (i) to establish a
trrffic costing system. (ii) to implement the reecrimendations made by coni-
sultants Davies and Robson I/ concerning a new freirht tariff scheme, (ili)
to make recommendations for a new passenger tariff. (iv) to implerient the
administrztive organization necessarv for cost-related pricinfo and (v) to
train personnel in the new costing and pricing techniques.
II.  Score of the Services
(1)  Establis!iment of a computerized costin- procecmiire based on long-
run marginal cost for the main categories of TCDD's freight and pas-
senger traffic to serve as basis for an apnrovriate cost-related and
corpetitive pricing pclicy;
(2)  Cnoice of tariff levels applicahle to parcels and pnrt-load (T.CL)
consignments in lighc of troasport costs and the need for optimal
utilization of the employe1 rolling stock:
(3)  Revision of cost estimates of road and rail services on which
the reco-nrended tariff w;as based:
(4)  Revision of the pronoqpt new freight tariff iac"rnorat1ng (a) the
updated cost estinates (vide iter,3) and (h) any increases necessary to
achieve the financial targets agreed unon beti?reen rovernment, TCDD and
the Banl:, and implementation of t'ie neiw tariff;
(5)  Pronosals for tbe introduction of special (ne'otiated) rates
for large traffics:
(6)  Simplification and adnnntation of auxiliarv charces to thu costs
of the corresponr'ing services,
1/   Davies and Robson, Implementation of Tariff Scheme, Ankara, Februarv 1971.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(7) Adantation of thie General Conditions of the Freirlht Tariff Book
to the proposed new freight tariff svstem:
(A)  Finalization of the freirht documents for use by the rate clerks;
(9)  Imnlementation of the administrative organization necessarv for
the application and effective control of the net: frei;,ht an! passenger
tnriffs, taking into account the necessity for affordiiyr TCD!'s re-
ziotnal directorates sufficient flexibilitv and authority In the ap-
plication of the new tariff system in order to compete effectively
with read transport:
(10) Conduct of necessary training courses. both for the staff of the
reneral Directorate of TCnD and the repional directoretes, dletailing
the principles and the simplified practices of the niew tariff svstems,
(11) Training of   .tahle personnel to continne the updatin!, and
arplication of the costing and pricing schemes,
2(1) Assessnent of expected results of ne new tariff svstems:
(13) Recoimmiend.ations on improve-ents in the quality of service and
possible cost redulctions for snecific freioht traffics;
(1,) Assistance in the preparation of public relations material and
information for the public concerning the new tariff systems;
(1S) Analvsis of first results ohtained after puttint the new tariff
svstems into anplication.
IIT. Reports
The cons;ultants will prepare the followinr. report- in in.-13sh and
Turl i shi
(a)  A 'or:th1v Propress Renort. giVilv' .? starement of all worn
nerforre: an.' a su-marv of interim  findinrs.
(b)  A Fin1al Report at the cornnletion of the iriplencntationi of thE
ne! tarifr svstc?r.
(c)  A Sutirmarv Report after the assessrent of the first resltrs of tne
ne'j tariff svstem.
I '.  Data .an. Facilities to lie Providlec by TCDi.
TC?I x will provihie the conisultanits wit: all necess-irv :ivailable
data.  TCTP will provide the necessarv offire snre- anc, equiipment atld ser-
retarial servire as required.  TCDT ujil assi-vn .  !ilifie-' cotunterparts to
wc,rk with tle- consultants on a full tine baFis. or from  tire to time as shall
be requiretl.



i
AN'NEX !,
Pane '
V.   Puration of the Services
i                       The constultants' services are exnected to last about 2S man-rionths.
April 1973



ANNEX 5
Page 1
TURKEY
Turkish State Rail"a  _jrD)
Present Tariff Structure and Tariff Reform-
A.   Passenger Fares
Passenger fares, shown in the table below, are on a tapering
scale and vary according to different distance zones; there are reductions
of up to 80% from the first distance zone. There are additional reductions
for certain customers such as soldiers, teachers, students, veterans, and
groups of four or more. Fixed fares have been introduced for certain
services. There are reduced fares for suburban passenger services. Ticket-
less travel is a problem.
Passenger Fare Structure (lurus ver pa,ss-km)
Normal Trains                 Uxpress Trains
Distance (km)          1st class    2nd class            1st class    2nd class
Up to 600                 6.3           4.5                 7.6            5.4
601 - 1,000               5.0           3.6                 6.0            4.3
1,001 - 1,500             1.9           1.4                 1.5            1.6
over 1,500                 1.3            .9                1.3            1.1
B.   Freight Rates
There are 91 rommodity groups and 30 different tariffs on a tapering
scale, ten of whi-h are applicable for full wagon-load consignments and thie
remainder for less-than-carload consignments or special arrangements.  Up
to twelve different fees can constitute the final fee charged to the customer.
The procedure is time-consuming, a source of irritation to the customer and
open to arbitrariness. Moreover, the charges seldom bear a relation to the
cost of moving particular goods.
The policy of negotiating special rates for imiportant customers
was discontinued in 1971, and the normal freight rates are now charged.
Reductions are granted to international traffic, transit traffic and traffic
through the port of Iskenderun.
There awe considerable differences in tariffs for commodities with
similar loading characteristics. 1owcver, given the present competitive
environment in the Turkish transport sector, such cross subsidization is
neither feasible nor advantageous to the railways.  Road competition is
still mainly met by shifting a commodity from one classification to another.
Some tariffs have been reduced at the instigation of the Council of Ministers.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
C.   Tariff Reform Scheme
The objectives of the new tariff scheme are: (a) to cover at least
the costs which are directly concerned with the movement of particular traffics;
(b) to provide ample flexibility to meet changes of the competitive situation;
and (c) to make its application simple and easy to understand.
The new tariff proposed by the consultants is based on comparisons
of transport costs and charges of both road and rail between major origin
and destination points. Consequently, the new tariff takes into account the
specific competitive situation, type and distance of traffic carried and the
size and loadability of the consignment. The tariff system is so designed
that rates can easily be adjusted either individually or collectively,
according to local experienze or a changed competitive situation. Many of
the charges now added would be incorporated in the new tariff.
The new scheme would raise charges for short distance traffic,
thus reflecting its movement cost, and reduce or maintain charges for long
distance traffic (basis 1970 freight rates). The effect on net revenue will
be an increase of about 5%. This would be in addition to the increases in
tariffs mentioned in paragraphs 6.07 and 6.08 of the appraisal report.
April 1973



ANNEX f
Page 1
TURKEY
Turkish State Railways (TC"D)
Description of Railway Property
1.   The Network
The TCDD system consisted of 7,985 route-km at the end of 1970. It
is separated by the Bosphorus into the European part, consisting of 372 route-
km, and the Asian part, consisting of 7,578 km of standard gauge (1.435 m)
lines, and one 35-km narrow gauge (1.0 m) line. In October 1971, two new
lines were opened for traffic:
(a) in the European part, the 68-km Pehlivankoy-Edirnie-Kapikule
line to the Bulgarian border, which shortens the distance
between Istanbul and Sofia by 20 km and bypasses two cir-
cuitous and obsolete sections on Greek territory, for the
use of which TCDD had to pay high charges; and
(b) in the Asian part, the 117-km Van-Kapikoy line to the
Iranian border, wbich connects the TCDD system with Tabris
and Teheran.
With these additions, the TCDD system consisted of 8,169 route-km
at the end of 1971, of which only a total of 118 km of the suburban lines in
Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir are double track. The Sirkeci (Istanbul)-Halkali
(28 km) and liavdarpasa-Gebze (44 km) sections are electrified.  Double track-
ing is under const) tction on the Gebze-Arifye section (88 km) and electrifica-
tion on the Gebze-Arifye-Adapazari (96 km) and the Sincan-Ankara-Kayas (37 km)
sections.
TCDD operates railway ferry services across the Bosphorus (3.5 km)
between Sirkeci and Hlaydarpasa. The ferry link between Tatvan end Van (90 km)
over the length of Lake Van is operated by the Turkish :Saritime B3ank. Rail-
way construction in Turkey started beforc 1860 from the port of Izmir for
some 100 km into the Hinterland and before 1870 from Istanbul toward the
Balkans and from Haydarpasa into Anatolia. The policy of the Ottoman Empire
was to connect its capital, Istanbul, with the capitals of the countries
under Turkish sovereignty. Accordingly, the connection to Sofia and Belgrade
was completed in 1873, that to Aleppo in 1912, and that to Baghdad in 1917.
After the formation of the Turkish Republic, the construction of railways in
Anatolia, east of the new capital, Ankara, started in 1924 and was continued
until recent years. The railway network built since 1924 comprises more
than half of the entire TCDD system.



.A:':;:x e.
Page 2
All railway lines in Turkey were planned and constructed by the
ilinistry of Public Works (MPW), except for some lines in earlier times which
were planned and constructed by private investors. ;4PW is also responsible
at present for the planning and construction of new lines as well as major
realignments and improvements of existing lines. TCDD has little influence
on the planning and feasibility studies, but takes over the lines from MPW
after the works are completed and the lines are ready for operation.
The TCDT) nctwork is IIl adapted to present tra 'i. flr s necause:
(a) the adverse surface structure of high mountain ranges, deep valleys, and
torrential rivers caused circuitous alignments; and (b) railway lines were
generally constructed with the aim of connecting as many major cities as pos-
sible with one line rather than considering potential future traffic flows.
Hlowever, tlhe TCDD network must be accepted as it has developed historically,
and its adaptaticn to present traffic flows by the construction of new lines
cannot be economically justified. In some cases, realignments of existing
lines to eliminate train speed and load restrictions are possible and will
be the subject of feasibility studies.
2.   Track
I1uch of the track is in bad condition (see traffic flow and track
renewal program chart IBRD 10077). The weight of rails varies between a mini-
mum of 30 kg/m and a maximum of 49 kg/m.  At the end of 1970, the position on
standard gauge tracks, including sidings, was:
Rail Weight in kg/m
45.;5 to 49.05           35.0 to 40            30 to 34           Total
kn3         2,10()                   4,740                1,270            b,110
25.9                    58.4                 15.7              100
Note:  There are no rails in the weight group from 40 to 45 kg/m.
For operation with diesel locomotives of 19-ton axle load, only rails of more
than 45 kg/m can be considered satisfactory.  Rails of 35 to 40 kg/m should be
permitted for axle loads of more than 16 tons only when they are in good con-
dition. Rails with a weight of less than 35 kg/m are not suitable for trac-
tion with TCDD's main line diesel locomotives.
TCDD's standard rail lengthi is up to 12 m; lhowever, about 1,460 km
of track (18% of the total) is still laid with rails 8 to 1 1 m long. There-
fore, a great number of worn-out joints exist, causing expensive maintenance,
speed restrictions and serious accidents. In the future, TCilD plans to procure
only 18 m long rails for main lines (which cannot be rolled by the existing
steel mills in Turkey). Rails will be welded to 36 m length at TCDD's rail



ANNEX 6
Page 3
welding plant at Behichey near Ankara and at site to greater length (72 m or
108 m) by aluminothermic welding. About 45% of the track is laid on wooden
sleepers, 52% on steel sleepers, and 3% on concrete sleepers. Most of the
steel sleepers are more than 50 years old and obsolete. Gradually they will
be replaced by concrete sleepers manufactured by TCDD. TCDD has more than
2 million concrete sleepers in stock which would be sufficient for about
1,300 km of track.  They could not be laid, however, because the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce had delayed issuance of an import license for sole
plates.  TCDD has therefore started manufacture of sole plates for concrete
sleepers at Sivas workshop, but the output is not sufficient to carry out laying
concrete sleepers on a large scale.
A substantial proportion of the rails have exceeded their useful
life for main line. If rails are replaced at the proper time, they can be
reconditioned and used for another 10 to 20 years on secondary lines and
even longer on sidings. The obsolescence of TCDD's track is shown in the
following table:
Age of Rails at the End of 1970
Numbers of    Up to                                 -lore than
Years         25      26 - 40    41 - 60    61 - 80          80         Total
Period of                                                     before
laying      1945-1970  1930-1944  1910-1929  1890-1909        1890
Km            2,228       3,035       1,503        871         473
Y.             27.5        37.4        18.5       10.7         5.8
More than 50% of TCDD's track has never been renewed.  There has
been no cyclical maintenance and renewal; both have been done mainly on a
patchwork basis. There is virtually no preventive maintenance. The largely
unsatisfactory track condition is aggravated by two facts:
(a) Ballast is unsatisfactory and contains a large portion of
oversized stones because it is broken by hand. This makes
the use of tamping machines and the maintenance of correct
level and alignment of track difficult. Procurement of
quarry equipment and mechanized track malitenance equipment
is included in the plan.
(b) There are many sharp curves with radii down to 3U0 m and
even below, and incorrect alignment of curves causes speed
restrictions and excessive wear of the rails.



.ANNEX 6
Page 4
At the end of 1971, TCDD had to maintain about 8,400 km of main
track (without sidings), of which about 3,500 km (42%) are obsolete, taking
into account the state of the rails and the traffic load. About 2,900 km of
obsolete track are due for renewal; 600 km of track will be studied for pos-
sible closure. In addition, 165 km of the 4,900 km of track not yet obsolete
are due for renewal each year. If TCDD carries out its track renewal program
averaging 350 km from 1972 to 1977, and another program averaging 500 km from
1978 to 1982, the obsolescence of t.ack can be eliminated by the end of 1982.
improvement of tthe poor track conditions on many sections will bc
critical for the hauling of the traffic expected by 1977, and should be given
highest priority. TCDD should reorganize its track maintenance and renewal,
and should establish a long-term track renewal program.
3.   Buildings and Structures
Buildings, bridges, tunnels and other structures are generally well
maintained atid ini satisfactory condition. bridges and substructures in moun-
tainous areas are sometimes damaged by flash floods. TCDD has emergency gangs
with construction equipment for the rehabilitation of such damages.  Larth-
quakes also sometimes cause costly rehabilitation aer'p
Signalling and Telecommunications
Satisfactory signalling and safety installations exist on two lines
only:
(a)  automatic block with color light signals on thc Istanbul
Sirkeci-lialkali suburban linc (28 km and 19 stations); and
(b) CTC on the llaydarpasa-Ankara-Kayas line (589 km and 71
stations); this system is in operation on two sections with
a total of 414 km and 42 stations. Works on the remaining
sections are progressing slowly.
There were 689 stations in the TCDD system at the end of 1970.
After completion of the CTC on the Haydarpasa-Anlkara-Kayas line, 90 stations
will have satisfactory and fairly modern signalling and safety installations.
of the remaining 599 stations, 15 have mechanical signalling and initerlocking
with home and exit signals; 139 have only home signals without interlocking
and 445 stations, including several stations on lines with heavy traffic,
;.ave no signalling installations at .'l. Except for the automatic block and
the UTC system mentioned above, no electric line block is used in the TCDD
system. However, a dispatching system is used on the Ankara-Kayseri-Sivas
line (602 km) and on the Yenice-.Adana-Malatya-Cetinkava line (556 km).  This
leaves about 6,200 km or 78% of the TCDD system without any centralized con-
rrol of train movements, and 87% of thc stations with obsolete signalling and
safety installations or none at all.



A'NEX i
Page ;
TtCDD's telecommunication system is moch better 1,eveloped than the
siinzalling and safety installations.  About one-third of the system is equipped
with modern telephone, telegranh and teleprinter instaIlations with automatic
exchanges, which connect Ankara and Istanbul with all ;ajor junctions in the
svstem. The same installations are under construction on the Eurovean line
from Istanbul/Sirkeci to Edirne. They will provide the still missing connec-
tions to the Greek and Bultyarian telecommunication systems. In addition, con-
nections to Sansun and Divrigi are under construction.
5.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
A.   Locomotives
(1)  Steam Locomotives
At the end of 1970, te total steam locomotive fleet consisted of
840 locomotives, of which 350, i.e., 41.6', have excee.led their useful Lifr'
of 33 years.   The two oldest locomotives are exactlv 100 vears old and hav
been used 'intil recently for shunting in railway workshops.  :lnst of the
heavy duty locomotives were built during the 1940-1949 period.  About 50n
locomotives not older thian 35 years are Jn reasonably good condition .1nd  ,rn-
erally well maintained.  The locomotives over 35 years oldi are in noor condti-
tion and cause hi,gh maintenancc -.nd repair costs,  "taintenance and repair he-
co-ae increasinglv *'ifficult mnd expensive, particularIv for the newer Locomo-
tives as well, because spare parts for steam locoinotives are no lonaer ohtain*-
able from outside sources, and TCD)D has 40 different tvnes of steam locomo-
tives in the fleet.  TCDD must therefore nanufacture major spare parts in its
own workshops, which keeps locomotives otit of service for a long tlrie and al'-
sorbs much workshop space.  The situation is reflected by the decline oF the
availability to 71.7, in 1971.  TCDD faces seriotis problems in keeping .1 sut-
ficient number of steam locomotives in operation until completion of the
dieselizition, nlaLned for 1982.
(ii)  Diesel Locomotives and :iesel !i.tilcars
TCOD has been oreratini; diesel loconotives lor line naL11 sinc.o
1958 and for shunting since 1954.  The locomotives were inported corplerelv
assembled until 1965.  From this period, there ^re 47 main line locomotives
of three different types, and 59 shtinters of five types.   rhe locomotives
ire reasonably well maintained, although the varlitv of types causes diffi-
culty in securing, srare parts.  The performance ot the locomotives is satis-
factory.  TCDD plans to provide for tale complete ,.icse]lzation of the systen
with locally nanufactured locomotives.  The manufacture of 360-hp shu4aters
unler a license agreement with '1AK, rermany, startv.! in 1196X, and of _,400-lhp
and 1,800-hp main line locomoti9'eq under a license. agreer;ent with  'ateriel
Triction Export (MTE), France, in 19Pf.  Five shtinters mnd 19 main line loco-
-otives were compIcted by the end of 1971; their performance is sitisfactory.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
TCDD owns 29 diesel railcar train sets, each consisting of two
motorcars and one trailer. They were purchased in 1952/53 and 1961/62, and
are in good condition. They provide the fastest passenger service in the
TCDD system, averaging a speed of 60 to 70 km p.h. between Haydarpasa and
Ankara, and 50 to 60 km p.h. in other connections. In addition, TCDD owns
15 single diesel railcars purchased in 1955/56, and 11 single diesel rail-
cars purchased from 1935 to 1942. These cars are operated with one or two
trailers and are still in reasonablv -ood condition hecause of appropriate
rmaintenance and regular replacenment of engines and gearboxes.
Four diesel motor vans with luggage and mail com1partmenits are bein_
constructed at the Eskisehir workshop, ench equipped witlh two innorted bogies,
powered with 550-ho diesel er.nines and hydraulic transmission. These 1,100-hn
motor vans ire designed to haul passenger trains on lines with light traffic.
T;iis seems to bc an uneconomic investment, as compare' *;th hauling li ;ht
trains by light -iulti-purpose diesel locom.otives of ahou; 1,000 hp.  TIDD
rlans to construct such locomotives at iskisehir durin:, thc 1978-1982 period.
(iii)  Electric Locorotives and Railcars
TCDT) owns three electric locoimotives (25 kV/50 cs, 2,20') 1p) pur-
chased in 1955. The locomotives are used to haul trains on the 28-km electri-
fied section between Sirkeci and lialkali. The utilizatior of the electric
locomotives in short haul is poor (120 km per day).  Tre locomaotives are in
.,ood condition.
In addition, TCDD owns 30 electric railcar sets, each consisting  f
two motorcars and two intermediate trailers.  Built between 1955 and 1963,
thev are in ?ood condition .and !ive a good nerformance.
1.   Pissenger Coachino Stock
The composition of TCflD's passenger coic'Hin ' stocl: it thc end of
1970 is summarized in the follcwin,g table:
Types  smbe
Passenger coaches, 4 axle                             102
Passenger coaches, 2 or 3 axle                        324
Dining cars, 4 axle                                    24
Luggage and mail vans, 4, 3 or 2 axlt                  84
Total active stock           1,234
(bsolere -military transport
cars still on books                                1'19
Total                         1,341



ANNEX
Page 7
The 322 coaches and vans procured siu.ce 1940 (32 of them constructed
from 1968 to 1970 at the Adapazari workshop) are in good condition; those pro-
cured between 1930 and 1939 are deteriorating, so that periodical overhaul can-
not keep pace with decay. This indicates that TCDD's standard of a u3eful
life of 40 years is too long. TCDD should accept a standard of 35 years, as
recommended by UIC. The remaining fleet of 364 coaches and vans, older than
40 years, is obsolete; of this number, the 265 coaches older than 50 years,
all with wooden bodies, are due for immediate scrap for safety reasons.
Sleeping car services were provided until recently by the Wagon-
lt± Cook Company with 49 sleepisig coaches. After expiration of the contract
in 1971, TCDD took over the sleeping car services with coaches leased from
Wagon-Lits Cook. TCDD plans to construct 30 sleeping coaches, the first of
which was put in service in April 1972.
Passenger trains are heated by stealm. In extreme winter conditions,
it is necessary to attach heating vans even to trains hauled by steam locomo-
tives. In th.e process of dieselization, it would be necessary to attach heat-
ing  ins to all passenger trains hauled by diesel locomotives unless the loco-
tiveb are equipped with automatic steam generators. Therefore, TCDD increased
the number of heating vans from 13 in 1967 to 48 in 1971. Construction of 80
additional heating vans is included in TCDD's Investment Program. It should,
however, be determined whether the use of steam generators on the locomnotives
would be more economical.
C.   Freight Wagons
The z!onditions of TCDD's load carrying freight wagons are summarized
in the following table:



AI4NEX i
Page 8
Age group       Approximate        Approximate capacitv, ton         Condition
number          Average per car       Total
Less than
30 years          9,400                27.1             250,000      Good.
30 to 40
years             3,600                21.3              76,500      Frir to poor.
Rv:lacement
within the next
1V years neces-
sary.
.(ore tn.in
40 years          3,000                17.S              53,500      Poor.  Replace-
inent urgently
required.
All groups       16,000                23.7             3lq(,On(
of which:
2-axle
wagons            14,000               20.8             291,000
bogie
wagons            2,000                44.5              89,000
There 're, in addition, about 400 brake vans, of which ibout 170 nre
-ore than 31 years old ind in noor condition.  filey should he replaced z1s soon
is pocsible.  Ihe composition of the frei.l;t wagon fleet with repard to load-
inc capicitv is poor:  10X have a capacitv of less than 15 tons, 50' have a
ca.pacity from 15 to 20 tons, while only 13' have a capacity of more than 40           -
tons.  For the expected traffic, the desirable composition would be:
25. of ;zore than 40-ton capacity;
50% of 20- to 40-ton capacity; and
25% of less than 20-ton capacity.
75' of the vagons are equipped with air brakes, 23%. with brake pipes and hoses,
nd 2:: with no braking device.
There are about 1,000 privately owned freight wag,ons with a total
capacity of 37,000 tons. Thts includes about 580 tank wa:ons with a total
capacity of about 15,000 tons, as against TCDD's own fleet of 257 tank wagons
ind a total capacity of 5,350 tons; 67 of the tank war,ons are obsolete.



ANNE:X 6
Page 9
Attachment I shows a summarv of the -motive power and rolling stock
characteristics and Attachment II gives details of the manufacturing program
for rolling stock.
6).   Mainrenance and Repair Facilities for Mctive Power and Rolling Stock
A.   Workshops
Tihere are four Train workshons in tilf TC1) system.  7hree of theri
are carrying out the regular overhaul and major repair .  the existing vehi-
cle fleet as well as the construction of new vehicles, parts and equipment.
(i)  Eskisehir
The Eskisehir workshop is the oldest one in the TCD') systeii.  tr
was expanded and modernized several times. lite last exnansion for the con-
struction of diesel locomotives st.irted in 1960 and is  ilriost complete.  'Ihe
main activities of the shop are:
(i)  construction of 2,409-hp raln line diesel electric locomotives
under a license agreement aith 'MF., France; the plan to con-
struct 1,800-hp diesel electric locomo-;ives :ilso has been aban-
doned in favcr of standaidization of the fleet; instead, TCDD
is planning the consrtrction of 1,000-hp diesel locomotives
for heavv shunting and light line haul service; the planned
output is 50 locomotives per year; later on, the shop will
carry out heavy repairs of diesel locomotives and the overhaul
of diesel engines;
(b)  construction of 360-hp die0el hydraulic sliunters under i
license agreement with YAK, Cernanv; the planned output is
12 to 15 shunters per year'
(c)  construction of special bogic wa,ons, such as tank, ore and
coal hopDer, refrigerator, etc., and bogies for other types
of wagons to be constructed at TCDD's Sivas workshop.
There are, in addition, separate shops for:
(d) points and crossings;
(e) steel structures, bridges, cranes, jacks; and
(f)  special steel tools for machining for all workshops ancd
Jepots in the TCDD system.
The repair and overhaul of stean loconmotives and wagons has been shifted
recently to Sivas to gain space and capacity for rhe production ictivities
at Eskisehir.



A;NNEX 6
Page 1 0
The Eskiseltir shop is well Danaget and well equipped.  Some obsolete
machinery should be replaced, which is included  in  the investiment program.
Quality  and workrnanshin of the products of the Eskisehir shop are -,ood.
(ii)   Sivas
The Sivas workshop was built in  1939.  Its  ain activities are:
(} rwvertiaul and r-.jor repair of st.om-i locomnotives, whi :n .ncludes
Linufactotre o, 'leavy spares -.'hi ch nrt :lo lon-er aval lafJe on
the  'iarket (cylinder blocks, boilers,  fire boxes, .tr* %A-i.
(1) overhaul in, re?.tir of all tv-es of frei;-.1t .a cs;
Cc)  n:-.anufacture of 2-axlc  frr'i*liL wagons,  and of stanc.-rd botiv
wagons shorter tha.n  12 ,;  1   capacity  o' the shor  is about
1,000 wa4ons per year;
(d)   ianufa-cture anf la-inated  spri-l s5, coupliii;s and otiler parts
m'r i:se twver t!e ,n tirc TCDi) svsto.,.
Ii the course of 1COdD's  .niseli'.-t          nrograr, Sivas will *iee
.h    eriodic overhaul o' diesel locor.otives.   .u this end the steam  locomo-
tive shop will ..raduallv he converted  into  Ic diesel shop. ihe Siv.is S. op is
well -sn e:! and 'airlv well equi;-pe .   Sure obsoleto --vcicinery siouu 1. he
rel.'ce(d.   uali tv  and wnrk-:.inshin (f the  sroelucts nre hood.
(Iii)  .;A ~n, 1 7.ir;
"e -ain activities  of t'ie qhle '  tre:
(i)   overhau1 and  -na,or re:i)  r *f ;assen :er co-ikierl, :u,. *,t:  :u
-ail cars, dir.in-=; ':ars, and service caicnes  ni ooev work
OT1 diesel and electric railc-irs;
(b)  conistriction of new passen2er coaches and  Lr.-ilers ant. bodies
for -otorcars;
ma) manufactuce of srrare bo4ies, in  *.ldition t) boi,es Ior (i));
-in(,'
(. )   -'antificttire of coil sprirn,s .nr use in  the entire  ICD!) system.,
Ti!e nhom  Is well -'ana:;ed, an(i its sheds, r,> chinerv and equipment
relativelv  new  !nd efficient.   The quilitv  and workrt.-nship of the  -anufacture
:s "'ood.  'ThIv  :inor replacerieit of :vmchlnerv is requtired.  Some reconstruc-
!ion o' t'we '-tii sheJ is req-tired, however, to enable t'ae shon to manufactitre
'-./.~  long coac'Iies -iccord inr  to UIC standards,  is :i.ainst  the  rvmximu-I length,
,  24.) - w!,icb is now nossi)le.



ANNEX f
Page 11
(iv) Ankara
The Ankara workshop was built in 1944, anc4 forms one complex with
the Ankara locomotive and railcar depot within the area of the Av'kira station.
Both are crowded and buildings are soriewhat rundown. The workshop and the
depot are under separate managements. Installations and rachinerv are in
good condition. Thie shop activities ire the following:
(a)  overhaul and major repair of the existing fleet of diesel
locomotives and diesel railcars;
(b)  overhaul and repair of diesel Powered equipment (gane trolleys,
.enerator      water pumps, compressors, etc.), altogetner 1,137
diesel enrines of 286 different tvpes; and
(c) manufacture of a great variety of items, such as portable
diesel engine electric ,-enerator sets, portable diesel en-
gine water pump sets, motor aang trolleys with two and
six seats, trailers for gang trolley", spare parts for
manv tvpes of diesel engines and transmissions, etc.
The qualitv of the oroducts is satisfactory.   iowever, since most of these
items are produced onlv in small quantities, they cotil-' prest.m.;,i  "e tmr-
ported ianl'/r purchased more economically from sp-ciall-ed lo0;.  -aaruf1Ct!rC- .
(ln request if the Government, the Ankara workshop ancd the depot
are due to be relocated from their present site to a place about 20 ;a
distant, as explained in paragraph 7 following.
:.   Depots
(i) Steam Locomotive Depots
There are presently 37 steam locormotive depots, about 15 of which
also handle the existing diesel locomotives of the reversing stations for
their return to their hone depot at Ankara and kEalkali.  More than half of
the steam locoimotive depots even at major junctions are in unsatisfactory
condition and poorly equipped.  I'he situation will he correct 1 in the course
of the planned dieselization, which will substantially reduce the number of
shops to he retained in operation.
(ii)  Iiesel Locomotive and Diesel :,ilcar Depots
Ankara Is the home denot for the 41 maiin line diesel iocomotives
and the 30 diesel railcar sets runnin:: in Anatolia.  A depot at Halkali
serves four diesel locomotives rtinnino on the European line.  botth depots
also handle stea- locomotives; their diesel scctionls aIrf iTI fairly good con-
dition and efficient.  They cannot, hot,wver, accommodate the substantial num-
ber of additionel diesel. locomotives to be allocated to them in the course of
the dieselization.



ANNF X 6
Pa4e 12
On advice of the iBank's consultant for dieselization, 2Mr. lAfred
*.lffler, TCDD -r-,,recc  to rediuce the nuatber of depots as follows:
First Class Depots            Second Class Depots              Third Class Depots
(for  ,aintcnance,              (for -aintenance               (univ s:telter for
rerAr and i:lsrbectio)             and inspectitun)          inspection and refueling)
\nkira                               Kavseri                 '2 depots for line !:aul
locomotives and shunters
Ad3a                                  Iskenderun
Siv,s                              rzusrunl              10 depots only !or
shunters
1 11:,tya                            I1 zi:
-ikischlir                            Aivir'uikir            Total 32 ~!eDots in 1977,
which 'l Sili :.ater rJe
Ikali                               :;Voo                   redluced to .'4
i r                       * ~~~ ~~~i~ 1i   csi
iotaI: I   *epots                     :t   fll I  ..crots    rotal:  24 Jenots
i.:I s woui I  red,uce  tilt- njrieter of d!evots    a e f ter  t, Li-inauion of steax"  tr lc-
c tion.   r,c conversion tw' t1e a:ihove 'irst  mnd second class deenots ironi Sta-
into Jivsel facilities is include! in Lhe investnent  'rrgran.  The t;,ird
ciliss  l(-:ots require invest-entc onlv for refueling p1lints.
(iii)  Depots 'or  ;lectric Trac-tion
J:lectric locomoftives and rai1cir sets ;or the Ist.nbul suburban
linc- Sirkeci-:ial'K,i are i1.intained and repaired in a separate section of
t:ie Halkali dTepot, .ahich is iii :ood condition and efficient.  A new depot
w;- built in 1969 :t ilayd:arpisa for the train sets and locomnotives running
or tho. Anatolian sidle Detwcen I,laydarvasa and Cebze, and later on to Arifive-
\d,!aPzari; it is well equinntvd, in zood condition and effirient.  lCDD recent-
ly purchased 15 electric loco-'otives, of which 7 are beinc assembled at !;av-
.iarnasa.  TCD.) plans to start production of electric railcars.
For the Ankara suburban line, which is bein- electrified and will
it operated with loccr'iotive hauled trains, service facilitles to accommodate
to '3 .lectric  o)co;:otives rlist be created at the Ankara jepot.



ANNEX 6
Page 13
7.   Relocation of TCDD's Terminal Facilities  r-.Akara. to PBehicbey
The Ankara nassenger terminal is located in the center of the city.
A  freight ',ard with shunting facilities, thje Ankar:! locomotive .lepot and the
workshop are immediately adjacent, as are Inudustrial *;idings to the municipal
gas factory and some other enterprises.  The Gover-rent requested TCDD to re-
locate its facilities, e.ccept the passenger ter-minal, to hiehicbey, whichi is
about 20 km distant on the line to Haydarpasa.  Thc deadline set by the Gov-
ernment for the relocation is 1977, which is finan' ially a.nd physically impos-
sible.
TCDD owns about I million m2 at Behic.,ev an,; in -idditional 730,000 m2
can be made available.  A reliable cost estimate  cr the niew yard is not vet
available since only preliminary engincering..xi,;tcz.    t tirst glance, the
planned workshop and the freight facilities, o,  i. .  lv a ground plan
exists,  ire subst3ntially oversized.  TCI)D inter,!-, t.  :ia.ince these Invest-
-ents from the sale of the released area of  l,    -.  t thie Ankara station
to the Municipal Goverm-ent.
The reasons for the Government's request  fcer release of the area
now occupied by TCDD are:
C-i)  elimination of one source of air pnolLit'on. -,ich is o problem
in Ankara; and
(h)  the plan to construct a culttir:0l centcr for t !- "iddle East
inclu(ding a congress hall, etc., o*, the raiKavs ground.
S.   TCDr)'q Psrts
1CD) owns andi o-erates five rorts, i..    !vd.rp;;sa, Samsun, ':.-rsin,
Iskenderun, and iDerince.  The adninistration .:nd tCe  ic lunts of TCDD's ports
are separate from those of the railwe'v syste-,.   - is!nton is beino consitd-
ered by the Governnent to put TCPD)'s port undcr   :' 4nonsibility of a new
port authority, which will beccae effectivt i I       .erefore, TC)D's prop-
erties in the ports and port invostments  ire *'o    :VseA  in this report.
April 1073



lu rx .lh State  Rtt  1t CDD
geof  ..v                           -k~ft1tSa)
xrdY~                                 1t s f i  1 tth    _
Ae Oroue                                    Uv to 10 Tars                           10 to ?C         70 to            30 to 40         kOo S0          jO      e                                             heo dd Tte
I5                           1960                                  T ~         1r Sdal lltu2f                                                              Useful Life
Period of Proeurant                 197(           . 1969       _      1969          .__  !9!                            193 1929 1°20 L9                                                    Ye ba.       __-_
$-*am Loconotivsa                                     -                2               4                W4.             133              150             101 *'          840  /33                         )50o        Ll.6
Diesel Loewottves
-   inli ne                       IC :/           LU                3                4                _                _               _                               57 a/             25              _          _
- huntere                          3               2               14              kS                 .                                                                61s              25
Diesel Railcar Sets
(sjnl. anu ultiple)                   -              -               15               2'                 6                5               _               _               55               20              11
Electric Loo o,l e0_3                                                                  I -                               _                                _                3               35
Electric ItAilcr Sets                                1- 12                            i                 -                -                -                               30               35
1940 -197U1 Pe-lid
Passenzer Co =hes d.                               167                               363               29t              157               99             265          1.1.3                40             36u        27.0
Fr ight Wagona
- le d carrying   n. 2n                                                           3.095            3,306           3,59'            1.S10           1,433          16.015                40         3LOW3          19.0
_  "ro*ge capacity of
Procured du-ins tre pjrid                                                                                                                                        ^vrc
pprax  ton                                      2:                                27                ?S              20               19              16              23.7
_ brake van, nos.                                13)                                 4 .13                             95              52               24            406                40              76        18.6
Less thn 15 ton   1I  to_2.) ton   20 to  5 ton   2c to  03 tor   20  o S  ton              e th n S0 *on
101                SSS25%                           ?S                 9%                 5%
Ngf!i:  cJ  lc1:da            ?  bInrt  butlt in 187?  ed  I shuntr but '  in 1997;  b/ inckdes:  9C              r untr, 2   hnting and   m  hul looti             nd 726 mainne locootives; 253  ler otLYes
ar buel oil burntog, 587 we coal  urning;  c/ 9 additional units were constructed tn 1971, VIih breoght the tot-al to 66 at the end of 19n; 4/ :nr.uding dint a                           d bartet care,
lu"ae *   ns 1i        ;       M3D'  standerd 19r ueful life of coaches   d wga3a   too 1or. Th  UIC Seward is orl3                      35 rfu  ^
April 19 3,



"ork sh atate~ tai1ways . DD!
Manufa-turing Pr-reru. f,r 1enn.r  ,aevs an .Wag,ns 171-1l?' and Tantati Rv Rettrcment  -rhrltue   .^-1 L
%'wber of        Oapa-ttv ton           Tital number          To be manu-          Number of unita  o be .anufacture   by years
______p ,r *nni                           of units            factured at           1 73       1'.74       17          l??6        1Q77
A.  Nasze.ger 7oaches
OOcnette -oaches I st *.ass  2K.4 m                         L                                       6C                 !dapazari                         3C . .                  30
Toachea, 'st class                 ?6.4 r                   o                                       '1                                        -                       -            -          1C
toacnes,  'Ind  lavs              ?2.4l  :                   ,                                       7C                                       - _         40_                      -          30
bu>gage and mail vans              26.b m                   4                                        24                                       - _         _                                   2L
Luggage and mail vtn               14.0 m                   2                                         R                                                     _                                  8
Dinning car                        21.C m                   4                                                                                 -           - _  _
Pulman coach                       2t.C n                   47                                                              "                                         2070
Suburban coach Ist class           21.C rt                  4                                        20                     '                lC           -           _           10
Suburban coach I:nd class          2X.C                                                                                                      L 4  1.0C    _           _           4C
Nct yet detereein:-i                                                                                6-                                                                S2           -          R
~otaI passenger coaches                                                                            1.0                                      tO           tiFC  FiC                           cO
B.  Freight Wagons
)pen                                                        2                  Z6                1,-c                      Sa                 -         SOC         SOC
'overeJ, bog'v e                                                                'C                 250                                                    -          100         l50
Fla t.                                                       2                 26                  cey                                      30C          20O                 -                -
"overed                                                      2                 26                1 ,200                                    10 4           _           _          500        3NO
Brake van                                                    I                 -                     C'                                       -           -           -                      lSO
Ballast                                                      2                 2' 'C-                                                                     -          100
)pen, bogie                                                 ?n ?C,                                                                            -           -                        -        200
Covered witr b  i .' brake.                                  2                  'A                  100 O                                                 -     -                  -         100
3ubta-ta, 7vas                                                                                    l cq.                     *-o             7ff          70C         700         6'C         750
Perishables                         bogie                   4                   rI' 100                                Eakisehir                         1C           -            _          _
Tank                                                         I.4               CI PC                                        "               icc
Automobile transport                                          45 21f                                                                          ---                                 50         100
'ontainer transport                   "                     4                  rn                  I "                                                              100            -         -
Hteavy losd flat                      "                                         A2                   50                                                   -           -            -          50
Ire hop;-er                            '                    4                   '                1.1"                                       200          350         200         350          -
SultijturPose  nen                                          Lh                                      10 o1                                                 - 4        l
'7b-total -s.ci-er,,r                                                                             IX,7'                                     100          150         300         400          50
Aldit io,.. 'rog,r., for Serlv.ce
t?2)ited to Li;. I rt 00
'.~;tt;-'-'''~.   '                                       2                  -                    5r7                   Sivas             10           10          10          10          10
Tank, for loc-:-.,iv, d:esel o:,l
bigie                                                     4                  SO                                      Evkisehir             15           15          15          1!         20
Tentative Retir",ent Schpcuilc 1':71 - ljHt
AC'.t'A:                                                                      FSTIRATAD                                                                 TOTAL
147i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ;^'?  1-T  - -57          -7              :;" -7 --77r                             1974           14F(,        MM7-l'i
Passenger :"a'hes                              '                       0             C            hi            hO            c(             r0             4(0           26            26              !1r
Vreight wagons                                                        rr "3 350                                               350           36C           3'04           252          lC            3,590
Notes:   ',   --.        : ,-       1"' -pr.:.v - :.-  , rr -                             ij L<K--:2 - u                                               :   '   .                    e                  atw ;-3rl.
.            .'.   .r;. ,r. -.    :r.:g ' w., *: .........~                ,                            ,...   -      ......................  C. :- m-c~-- ...er .'i'er:.  f.
in       7 ..   .



AN'FX 7
Pare 1
TURKEY
Turkish State Railways (TCDI)
Freight ant' Passen er Traffic Forecassts
A.   Freipht
I.   General
Traffic forecasts for the principal conrtodities transported by
TCDD lhave been made on the basis of the regional distribution of prospec-
tive production, consumption, and imports and experts of these coimodities.
taking into account the lone-range transportation plans of major Turkish
comppanies. Regression analysis was conducted for principala commodities to
determine the price elasticity of demancl. flowever, the results were satis-
tically ntt significant and were therefore not utilized for the forecast.
The growth rate of rnp In reil terms was assumred at 5.(-6' for the period of
tlhe Third Five-Year Develonment Plan.  This estimate is on the conservative
side when compared with an averare ani,ual grcurth rate of 6.   in the period
162-1971 ane a projection by SPO of 8% for the periodl 1973-l177.
II. Traffic Forecasts of Principal Commodities
1.        Coal
Soft Coal:  Based on forecasts of TYI, the State Coal Comppany.
it is assumed that coal will increasinglv be tvamsnorted by ship fron the
mines near the Black Sea Coast. It has also been assumed th.at the coal
necessary for the new steel rdll in Iskenderun will be transported by the
more competitive ships. Therefore, the rail transport will remain stagnant.
Lignite-  rfining of lig,nite is at present concentrated in the
provinces of Kutahya and Maisa.  Htige deposits have been found in the
province of Yaras.  However, a substantial part of the li,nite output is
consuried on the spot by therral power andi fertilizer plants.  Total output
in the late seventies is estimated at about 8 nillion tons.
As regards prospective railwav li'nite traffic, a 3Y increase is
expected in terms of tons, mainly as a restilt of poptilation growth. The
futtire growth of lignite traffic is exDected to be loaor than that experi-
enced by TCDD in previous years (about 5.97% p.a.) because more lignite will
be converted on the soot into electric ener-v ancd Indtistrial usage is ex-
pected to decrease. The average len-'rh of hanl iF expected to decrea<e
sliFhtly a' the ce-.osition of the traffic will shift more to small scale
consumers.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Antracrite:  Anthracite is lprodticed almost exclusivelv in the
Zou n'iLdI;4 aroa and. is consutred by th.- steel miiIs at that location.  A
simnificint shift in the present distribution pattern will be caused by the
oporation of the Tsl:ent'eruin steel rmill in 197S.  llowcver, railway traffic
,ill not '-re iffi-cter  lecaiuse .ll coal will be tran'porte   byv sea.  The iron
-nd steel inc'ustrv will rerain tihe most irmportant consu3ter of anthracite.
The rait-iv trafii  forvcasr' are haser' on 713's lonse-term  transport plans
which pro4ect o:0v a sli;ht incrense in tr-tnsport for TCDDT an1 an increasinc
share of tr,v1sn rrt `)v --.Yn.
.Suar ;;eets andt Molasses
Suf ar Vcers:  Transport by rail of sutgar beets oscillated around
li_, .oi~--- fv    nvar
m 1 lion  tons annualiv.  Only a slig-ht increase. about in line with the
:cre  ',1 i1 rc-C *ttttiec, v           (2, - 3") , has been asml;med.  Since the
re-K o"a I iottrn n; pro'uctiot: and .rocessins' of sug.ar beets w.ill not
eThanme -Lteri.'1!i, the averag-e length of haul is expectedt to vary only
l;ti::htIv.
"olasst :  The prejected  increase in terms of tons is based on
tue same rate of i!ncre-ise assiuried for sug nr beets.
'3.        I ron Ore
Iron ore Is one of the most imnortant traffirs of Tgf)D, in terrms
of tonnage and ton1-.mn and average leicrtt of hau].  It is expected that this
tr-iffic will rain even more Itrnortance for TC(11.  Information received  from
rovernmerit and the iron an(! steel mills shows that a preocuction of about
fi.3 million tons annually ic tqr"eted by 1977.  Assuming a continuation of
the present policv of uisin,g domestic ore. this target wouild require a pro-
'!uction of iron ore of close to F million tons.  Thus, for TC11)D) an iron
tre traffic of albouit 4.( million tons annuaally coul1C be assuried.  The
traffic  forecast fo*r iron ore given in Table 6 is based on information
trom Karabuk andl "re1li steel works, roveniment production plans for the
new steel mill in Isibenderun and information supplied1 bv a Bank consultant
and a consultants' 1/ report.  hlowiever, while the production tarcets of the
steel midlls are fepsihle and realistic in view  of the ongoing expansion
ce  oroduction faciVities, tIhe followingr uncertainties concerninf future
iro.i orn  traffic must be consido!red:
(i)  Te ircreas( in productiorn twould require an accelerated rate
of rinir.g; at Divri!i.  Tleo Farnhul: steel works has prepared
: proJect to increase tCe outoitt of Divrifji mines from  one
to three mil lion tons and to b)uild a one-Tnillion-ton pel-
let47ir,,% pl.ant.
/   Saiat Husamettin et al., "Turkish Iron and Steel Works - Iron Ore Pro-
curerment Planning, 1972-1982" Prepared for Ministry of Industry, Ankara
197.-



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(1i) Karabuk has worked out plans to initiate mining operations in
1974 at Hasancelebi, Sivas province, where iron ore deposits
of close to 400,million tons have been indicated.
tJhile Government has given priority to the development of the iron
ore production at Divrigi and Hasancelebi, the aporaisal of the Erderdtr steel
plant expansion project 1/ identified the following problems vhi'-h wouldl have
to be resolved:
(i)  Proving of indicated reserves at Divrigi an] Ilasancelebi;
(ii)  Develooment of a master plan for develorinr Turl.ev's iron
ore deposits;
(iii)  Settlement of ownership contitions concerning the Hiasancelehi
deposit:
(iv)  Managonent of a ma,jor mining; ventuire under the State Econolic
Enternrise form;
(v)  Provision of large stora!ze and transport ca.-acitv for the
large ore moverents envisaged.
(vi)  Securing of financing for the pre,ject.
Regarding point (v), TCP!l has given prioritv in its; Investment
Plan for improvine the lines connecting, the iron ore minmnm  arei with the
steel mills.
In conclusion, if Covernment should continue to give prio'ritv to
the expansion of local prod1uction of iron ore and ir-wediatelv take the
necessary steps to solve the issues mentioned in the previf1us paragraph, the
traffic forecast for the railways would materialize.  The forecast assures
that the level of donestic iron ore prodtiction cannot he exnanded materially
until 1975, the halance of ore rcqlhireinentA beinr imported. Thereafter
domestic capacity could provide alout 80% of iron ore requirerents.
4.        Other Ores
This group includes copper, conper ore, leri ore. zinc, bauxite andi
mantanese ore.  Traffic is expected to gro¶J in accordance with past growth
nerforTance.
1/   Appraisal of the Erdemir Steel Plant ExpansiLn Project. T6r1Ey.
Febrtuary 4? 1972, Report No. P1 - 13a.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
5.hrr:
Chrome transport will increase by about 1.1% annually, taking into
icotoint roveri-ent reasires to increase the otitput of the Culeman mines and(
- -rt; to increase the e.:nort of chrome.
Cerea ls
Transport of cereals is assumed to increase parallel to the
inr.rease iu cesumption Ly about t.'2 annually.  The increase in  terns of
ton-  t'n   ] ', be abouit  4.U. hecause of a shift in the regional pattern of
Oi-jrib ttkion an1 c; onsumpltion of cereals.  The forecast is baseJ on inforra-
t.on fron the Agricultural Produlicts Office.
Ferti}izers
Consu-irpion of fertili:-ers will inicrease by 533%  fror 4.2 millioi
l':!:s in V'171 teŽ t.   illiet, tons in 1977, an( thL Ministry of Agriculture
;i'"  re'oiuvS te  iro!l Tr") tt . provi';ion of capacity tc move about 1.5 to 2
-iIl ion tons nnnuaill.  !i'0-vor, the Ministry eynects TCDD to move tne
erti li::cr at nretsent tariffs, which do not cover costs.  A statistical
*l!iI;-.sis oF the price elasticity  of de.and yielded inconclusive results
nmd cvul! not b1C usedl to assess the i-ipact of possible tariff increases
on t!.t' volu-;o n,. traffic.  Tbc'refore, TC!)D's prospecti-e fertilizer trans-
,ort is  ci    on tile possibhe  incre±ase iii supply  of frei,g,ht wigons fcr
t,is tr.aftjc  rither thalL  o;n pruspective denmand for trmnsport of fertilizer
Steel and Othier Iron
Steel outpmit will rise to about 4.3 million tons bv 1977. A
major pronortion (about 7t0%) is transported by road because of its greater
ie;7i f }i tv of service and f-aster transport directly to the consumer.  On
; ze other hand. the railway has sore oper3tional difficulties, such as in-
deŽquIate si.:ins at tle steel works andi problems in the tuni-around of its
.rci;nht ',a^tons, ¶t-chl are not likely to be ovrcorie quickly. ffowever, it
; expecte.I that TCIMVs traffic,  hic'a mainly encoripasses shipments to
!-ru : ntctrvrises, will bencfit frcri the increase(I demand for steel and
Xt' ci  prccmIttit'S.
Ce:-.ent
Alt'ioutv', cerent production *will be increased' considerably, accord-
to prt-sent Government plans, TCT)D's cem-lent traffic will decrease because
pl,,as of the ctiieot factories to intror!uce silo  trucks in  1973 for trans-
or of loone cement rlirectlv to the customer.  The railwav would thus retain
ofnlv traffic whicih is carried in ba.s.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
10.       Fuel Oil
Traffic forecasts have been made on the basis of *he transportation
plans provided by the State Petrol Company (Petrol Offisi) and Etibank, the
two most important companies-in Turkey for the marketino of oil. Competition
from pipeline and road tankers is keen, consequently, TCDD fuel oil traffic
dropped after the introduction of a new pipeline between Batman and Iskenderun
in southeast Turkey from a peak of 960,000 tons in 1966 to 354,0&! tons in
1967 and thereafter increased slowly to 436,000 tons in 1971.  A further slight
increase, due to the increased demand for fuel oil and based on existing
modal distribution patterns for fuel oil, as forecast by the two petrol
companies, therefore seems feasible. The estimates mio!ht well prove con-
servative if TCT)D implenents the recommendations of consultants Davies
and Robson (submitted to TCDD in 1968) concerning improved handling of
tank cars and a more competitive fuel oil tariff.
11.       Other Goods
This commodity group is composed of a varietv of diverse goods
of minor importance.  An attempt to conducc a regression analvsis on this
traffic, using real SUP and average revenue per ton-km as explanatory
variables, turned out statistically inconclusive results.  Therefore, only
a slight increase of this traffic has been assumed in line with the lons-
term average level of traffic growth for the period 1969-1971. However, ac-
cording to consultants' estimates, there is a substantial growth potential
for this traffic, amounting to some four million tons, which could be realized
with more agressive marketing and irproved quality of service.
B.   Passengers
T.   Suburban Traffic
A multiple regression was tested using pass-km as a dependent
variable and the average revenue per pass-km, GDP in real terms, and motor
vehicle densitv as expressed by the ratio of population/motor vehicles as
independent variables. About 95% of the variance of the denendent variable
can be explained by changes in the motor vehicle densitv. Contrarily,
changes in average revenue per pass-km and real WVl had no statistically
significant effect on suburban traffic growth.  It caTn be concludled,
therefore, that the increasing conge-stion on roads in Istanhbtl, Izmir and
Ankara has been the most important factor in the railway's suburban
passenger traffic growth.
The formula chosen for predirting suburban passenger traffic is
exnressed in the following form:
PK = a +k Tn
where:    PK = Suburban passenger traffic in pass-km;
a = 3,200, a structuraL constaivt;:



ANNEX 7
Page 6
TD = Trnffic density of road vehicle traffic;
& = 10.9594, elasticity of PK to TD.
The results are statistically significant with a cortelation co-
efficient of r = .97 and a t-value of t=-12.67.
II.  Main Line Traffic
Mail line passenger traffic proved much more difficult to predict
than sulburb.n passenger traffic. The variables tested in the statistical
analysis, average revenue per pass-bgn. real C-)P, road traffic growti, average
Nlenth of iou-niev, population incrense and road traffic density, were
st.tisticallv inconiclusive.  Pail passevnger fares remained constant in the
!,triod considered (1962--1371) anid are about the same as bus fares.  lHowever,
i r-cmparison of travel times of road and rail reveals that it often takes
P,ps;seTWger three times as long to reach his destination by rail as by
'u;, chiefly because of the more circuiiteus rail network and frequent delays
n:e to accidents.  In summary, apparentlv qualitative factors such as travel
time, freqtiencv and quality of service had a decisive influence on the
7!;tcrleri ~choice of transport modes.
The traffic forecast has been based on the assumption that fare
increases are unavoidable in the light of Government's policy to allow
i(nr  to ch;ar5'e fares which would cover at least the narginal cost of moving
t-e traffir and to achiieve financial viability (see Plan of Action for TCDD,
Anne>: 8).  Fare increases on the oreer of 75" over the next three years
dill he necessary.  T'his wrill lead inevitably to a drastic decrease of main
Iine passenger traffic which would be beneficial both to TCDD and the
economy: for TCDD, because it could reduce unrenumerative services and in-,
crease capacity for more profitable freight traffic, and, for the economy.
because road transport is botlh more efficient and cheaper for passengers.
en the basis of the above considerations, the missicn prepared, in coopera-
tion with TCDD, the traffic forecast for main line passengers as presented
In Table P.
A;prl 1973



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TURKEY
Turkish State Railways (TCDD))
Memorp-sdur of Understanding on a Plan
'of Action for the TurkL-ih Railway System (TCDD)
1.   Introduction
The prob.. em of rehabilitation of the Tturkish Railways (TCDD), wiose
financial position at present constitutes a heavy burden on the budget, has
been of concern to the Government.
It is the aim of the Government that the Railways should progress
towards f.nancial viabilitv - meeting all their operatinp costs (ir.cluding
depreciation), and debt service obligattonis - and making a contribution
towards their investment needs.  A Railway study, financed by the UNDP with
the World Bank as the executing agencv, has been made by a firm of consultants,
ITALCONSULT, whose final report is now available for distribution.
The Government and TCD!) have review.  the recommendations of tbc
consultants, and intend to implement the follo-viAig measures with the objective
of having the Railways (TCDD) improve its infrastructure, level of service
and commercial organization, indis-'Qnsable for fulfilling its appropriate
economic role in a cow,e.'tive er.vlronment and to achieve financial equilibrium.
This Memorandum is the in-trument :bv which the Government's intention is
coumunicated to the World Bank. The action proposed to te taken by the
Government in the matter of overall transport coordination has been ex%,lained
in the Government's previcus Memorandum dated August 27, 1970.
II. Organizational Improvements
To improve management and operations the following stens will have
been taken during 1971:
(a)  The Board of Directors of TCDD has been reorganized along the
principles of Law No. 440. This reorganization is reflected
in a new draft organic law pertaining to TCDD, already sub-
mitted to the Parliament;
(b)  This proposed draft TCDD law will permit appropriate delegation
of powers to the Deputy Directors General, the Regional
Directors, and other officials, adequate to enable them to
conduct the affairs of TCDD according to the principles of
modern business management;
(c)  Within the Studies, Planning and Coordination Division of
TCDD, a new Planning Unit has already been created with the
specific object of formulating and coordinating medium and
long-range plans. Such coordinaticn covers 'n particular:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(i) preparatioit of forecasting and traffic flow studies;
(ii) initial preparation and economic Justification of
TCDD's long-term investmient plan.s and annual investment
programs; (iii) identification of uneconomic lines,
services and stations and the definition of appropriate
measures for their eventual .-idification ,r elimination:
and (iv) cost analysis ;!ad commercil pricing.
This Planning Untt will carrv out its duties in full coordination
with the relevant departments and units in TCDD.
IIM.  Staff Adjustment
TCDD realizes the existence of some overstaffing and the consUItants'
studies indicate that personnel strength could be reduced by ahcut 5,003
persons.
Accordingly a staff-reduction program will he carried out in a
manner fully consistent with the new Personnel Law. The matiu policy governing
this staff-reduction program will be not filling the vacancies created by
resignation, retirement or the death of presently employed oersonnel, except,
of course, for those positions that are deened essertial for continued
effective management of TCDD.
IV. Pricing, Competition and Subsidies
The Government will initiate the necessarv mea.suires tro apply to
TCDU'c operations (as well as.to the other modes), the princ,llch ;,f Ture-sh
transport poliry set forth in Particular in the Second Fitve  .-.ar t1n, ',J
in Law No. 440.  ihese principles essentiallv call icr:  (a) ;'  .   t:iSn of
state transport enterprises according to cormercial criteria; (b) seztinig
tariffs and rates so as to reflect the incremental 0osts of each cype of
transport service plus an equitable share of the (fixed) lnfr'.itructure z'9sts
of eachi mode: (c) enceuraiing and regulating intermodal competition on the
basis of the inherent cost and service characteristics ot each mod-! rather
than on discrIminatory pricing: (d) specific accountability for the tompensa-
tion of losses resuitlng from imposed non-econonic services, as specifically
provided for in Art:tcl.e 24 of Law No. 440.
As an aid to accomplish these policy objectives in the administra-
tion of TCDD, comprehensive and continuous cost analysis studies will be
conducted by the Financial Department in order that up-to-date average and
marginai cost data will be available periodically. It is expected that the
application of these policies will be fully in force during 1972.
V.  Revision of TCDD's Financial Relationship with the Treasury
To give relief to the TCDD, Government will revise the financial
relationship of TCDD with the Treasury, covering inter alia the question of
accumulated deficits of previous years, debts incurred to finance purchase of
fixed assets, Increase of nominal cap'tal, annual reimbursement of expenditures



ANNEX 9
Page 3
resulting from routine infrastructure maintenance, and the manner of covering
the operating deficit of the TCDD until it achieves financial viability.
The necessary draft law regarding these matters has already been submitted to
Parliament.
TCDD shall make every effort, and Government shall provide all
necessary support, to achieve a working ratio of 1 as soon as possible.
VI. Studies of Uneconomic Lines, Stations and Services
The ITALCONSULT study indicates the existance of about 300 stations
with very little traffic. This matter will be studied in detail by the Rail-
ways (TCDD) with a view to deciding on the further action to be taken; the
feasibility of closure of the stations will be considered.
The ITALCONSULT study also indicates that the TCDD has some lines
of low traffic density which appear uneconomic. A detailed economic studv
of these lines will be made in order to determine if satisfactory economic
results can be obtained by rationalizing services, or if this is not possible,
partially or totally eliminating some of these services, so.e stations or the
entire line. The total closing of a line is to be carried out following the
provision of adequate substitute transport services. Should, however, the
Government deem it necessary to continue such lines, stations or services,
TCDD's losses will be reimbursed by Goverrrment, as mentioned in IV (above)
and provided for in Law No. 440.
These studies regarding uneconomic lines, services and stations
will be initiated in 1971 through the cooperative efforts of TCDD, a com-
petent consultant, and the Bank.
VII. Railwav Investment Program
The Government considers that the Railways' inveqtment program
should be based on sound technical, financial and economic criteria.
Development of schedules for carrying out TCDD's modernization
program at the earliest possible time will be initiated in 1971. Pr'oritv
will be given to TCDD to purchase, in collaboration with the Bank, the
needed equipment and material at the lowest possible cost, including, to
the extent necessary and feasible and consistent with the policies of the
Bank, authorization for foreign procurement of such equipment and material.



ANEX  8
Pago 4
Projects aimed at large increase in line capacity such as
doubling of track and electrification of linea, and construction of new
lines will be decided after comprehensive technical, financial and econot.c
studies have been made. The studies on such nrojects to be undertaken during
the next five years will be initiated by mid-t971.
Republic of Turkey
Turgut Ozal                             Ahmied Sarp
Undersecretary                       TCDD, General Manager
Stactu Planning Organization
Signed April 1971



ANNEX 8
Page 5
Amended Plan of Action for Railways Developrment
I.   Policies and Targets
A.  'Working Ratios.
The Borrower will reduce costs and raise revenues in order to
reduce its working ratio to 100 by 1978 and to achieve the following yearly
targets in the interim:
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977
190       165        145        120        104
For the purposes of the above "working ratio" means all working
expenses such as personnel costs, track and other maintenance costs and mis-
cellaneous other costs excluding depreciation, interest and other charges on
debt expressed as a percentage of gross operating revenue accruing from the
Borrower's services exclusive of subsidies from the Guarantor and reimburse-
ment by the Guarantor of expenses such as track and infrastructure maintenance.
B.   Operating Targets
To obtain needed cost savings, the Borrower will take all action
needed to achieve the following Operating Targets:
1971       1974
(Actual)   (Target)
Ci)  Availability of diesel
locomotives (per cent)                       78.4       80.0
(ii) Availability of steam
locomotives (per cent)                       71.7        75.0
Availability of diesel
railcars (per cent)                          72.3        85.0
(iii) Loaded journeys per month for iron-
ore wagons from Demirdag to Ulku              2-3         4-5
(iv) Loaded journeys per month for iron-
ore wagons from Hekinhan and Kangal
stations to Samsun                            3-4         5-6
(v)  Loaded journeys per month for copper and
chrome transport from Maden to Iskenderun  2-3            4-5



ANNEX 8
Page 6
(vi)  By December 31, 1974, complete dleseliza-
tion of the iron-ore traffic
(vii) Savings from abandonment or retionaliza-
tion of uneconomic lines, stations and
services, to be realized in 1q73-74 in
obvious cases, and in 1974-78 under a
time-phased plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, which should be prepared on the
basis of consultants' recommendations
by May 31, 1974:
(TL million)
1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978
10         40         70        100        130        170
C.   Investments
(i) The Borrower will not undertake railway investments until
their technical, financial and economic feasibility has
been demonstrated.
(ii)  Drawing on the rcc>mmendations of consultants, the Borrower
will prepare a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be ready
by September 30, 1973 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank for si6analling investments on the lines Ancara-
Sivas-Divrigi; Irmak-Zonguldak; Basmane-Cigli; and Andana-
Cetinkaya, including the section Toprakkale-Narli.
D.   Cormercial Policy
To obtain an increase in its revenue, and to rationalize certain
commercial practices, the Borrower will take all action needed to establish
In a manner satisfactory to the Bank, by May 31, 1974, or such other date
as shall be agreed with the Bank, and thereafter maintain, (a) a traffic
costing system; (b) a revised freight and passenger taritf system based
thereon, including tariff adjustments in real terms and including, for the
purpose of reacting flexibly and effectively to changes in competitive cir-
cumstances, provision for varying any indivilual freight tariff at such
times an.d to such degree as the Borrower deems advisable; and (c) improve-
meat:s in the quality of service.
II. Organization, Management and Staff Improvements
(i) The Borrower will establish, in consultation with the Bank,
by June 30, 1973, or such other date as shall be agreed with
the Bank and under the chairmanship of its Director General,



ANNEX 8
Page 7
a Project Coordinating Committee.
(ii) The Borrower will adopt by January 31, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Bank, a plan of reorganiza-
tion and management improvement for the Railways, Including
a phased reduction in the number of its personnel, satis-
factory to the Bank, for impleamentation with effect from
March 31, 1974.
(iii)   The Borrower will  .epare a program of staff career training
in Turkey and management training abroad of senior staff,
satisfartory to the Bank, to be commenced not later than
June 30, 1973, or such other date as shall be agreed with
the Ban':.
III. Consultants
In order to assist in the Borrower's physical and financial re-
habilitation, the following consulting services have been or will be obtained
by the Guarantor or the Borrower:
A.   United Nations De"elopment Program studies for the Borrower:
(i) Management and reorganization study to be completed by
November 30, 1973, or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank.
(ii) Studies of the abandonment or rationalization of uneconomic
lines, stations, and services, with the consultants' recom-
mendations to be completed and reviewed with the Bank by
May 31, 1974 or such othbr date as shall be agreed with the
Bank.
(iii) Feasibility studies on the construction of the Tecer-Kangel
shortcut and the Eregli-Zonguldak cor.nection, to be completed
by September 30, 1973, or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Bank.
(iv)  Technical and economic studies on optimum signalling invest-
ments, to be completed by December 31, 1973 or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Bank.
B.   The Borrower will retain consultants acceptable to the Bank, upon terms
ax.d conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and by dates mutually accept-
able to the Bank and the Borrower to undertake the following work:
(i) To assist the Borrower in the implementation of the com-
mercial policy reforms referred to in paragrarh I/b of this
Schedule.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
(ii)  To assist the Borrower in supervising the organization and
execution of its track renewal and signalling program.
(iii)  To assist che Borrower in monitoring the progress of its
program of dieselization of locomotives, workshops and
depots.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TURKEY
Turkish State Railways (TCDD)
Production of Diesel LocomA'tives by TCDD
Suwmsry of Report by Mr. A. Kniffler, Consultant
1.        The dieselization of traction on the TCDD is fully justified in
financial and economic terms. Savi.ngs in traction costs amount to about
25%, and further savings could result by single manning of locomotives in
some services.
2.        The period of 12 years as planned by TCDD for the elimination of
steam by diesel traction is satisfactory and takes proper account of:
(a)  Manufacturing capacity of TCDD's worksh)p;
(b) Conversion of steam to diesel depots;
(c) -rrining of staff;
(d'  -aflic forece3ts; and
(e)  Use of workshops after dieselization is completed.
3.        The required total number of diesel locomotives is 587 for mvAin
line and 185 for shunting service, of which 67 main line locomotives and 65
shunters were in service at the end of 1971; 520 main line locomotives and
120 shunters are to be manufactured from 1972 to 1982.
4.        For the periodic inspection and running maintenance of TCDD's
diesel locomotives, 7 first class depots, 9 second class depots, and 32
third class depots are required, i.e., a total of 48 depots as against 59
steam depots at present. The number of third class depots can be reduced
after more experience has been gained. TCDD intends to convert the present
steam locomotive shop at Sivas into a shop for periodic main inspection and
overhaul of diesel locomotives.
5.        Training methods for diesel locomotive drivers and maintenance staff
are well prepared and the training is carried out satisfactorily.
6.        The Eskisehir shop is the key factor in TCDD's dieselization pro-
gram. Quality and organization of locomotive production is satisfactory 11.
The program provides for production of 36 main line locomotives in 1972, in-
creasing to 50 main locomotives in 1976 and thereafter, and of 12 shunters
1/   Management is competent and is answerable directly to the Director
General of TCDD. Workshops are self-accountable, and overhead costs
are properly distriouted to workshop products.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
annually; during the aame period, the proportion oi locally manufactured
compone.nts of the main line locomotives will increase from 43% to about
70%.  This program is realistic, and the percentage of local matlufacture will
be near the economic optimum.  Beginning in 1972, diesel locomecives can be
manufactured at lower costs than the CIF price of imported locomotives, ex-
cluding customs duties and taxes. In view of the relatively small additional
investment renuired for locomotive productiorn at the Eskisehir shop, which
is more than 75% complete, the local manufacture of diesel locomotives can
be considered economically justified.
7.        After completion of dieselization in 1982, the production of addi-
tional diesel locomotives to haul increased traffic, the manufacture of diesel
engines for replacement, and heavv repairs of locomotives damaged bv accIdent
wi:l engage about 90% of the capacity of the Eskisehir shop.
8.        For the most economic ma'ntenance, and to minimize out-of-service
time of diesel loconotives, the "interchanging method" for diesel engines,
generators, bogies, etc., is very important. Its requirements and advantages
were explained and urgently recommended to TCDD's management and staff.
9.        Because of its complexity, the execution of the dieselization pro-
gram in all its aspects should be closelv supervised and periodic assistance
by a consultant with appropriate experience is necessary.
April 1973



ANN  10
TURKEY
Turkish State Railwa-s (TCDD)
Estimated Schedule of Dinbursements
US$ (000)
CUmJ'1Cive YLsbursement
IBRD Fi3cal Year                             at aiid oi Quarter
and (tuarter                        Lcal                   Foreign
Currency              Exhange
Financing             Financing
1973/74
September 30, 1973                       2,000                  4,0O0
December 31., 1973                       4,600                 10,000
Mareh 31, 1974                           6,ooo                2.5,000
June 30, 1974                            7,400                 20,000
1974/75
September 30, 19714                      8,700                 25,000
December 31, 1974                       10,000                 30,000
March 31, 1975                             -                   34,000
June 30, 1975                                                  37,000
Underlying Ausuoption:
Effective Date - Jun. 30, 1973
April 1973



Alll 11
Page 1
TU tXEtr
TLu.cish State PRilvay (Tt:DD)
State of Imolementation of the PlaAs of Action for Tranxport
Coordination and Tukieh  Wiw7    (TCM)
1.   Plan of Action for TCDD
Agreed Date of                                                   Reason for
Activity or Event                     Completion                 Action Taken                DI         Delay
1. Reorganization of Board                              Reorganization completed,                     Government is review-
or Directon according                1971            draft Inv pending in Parlia-        TCo       ing reorganization of
to Law 4lhT.                                         ment (since April 27, 1971)                   all State Enterprisee.
iantB to walt for re-
smlts of the reiew.
2. Formation of Planning Unit                            Formation completed; however,
witd%itTDD                             1971           unit is not yet operational.        TCDL
Needs technical assistance
and morequalified pereonnel.
3. Staff adjustment                       1975           Staff reduced by 2,210 by           TCDD       On target
end 1971
4. arrif rpform                           1972           Consultants' studies hare been    TCDL         Govemnent reluc,
available since 1570. Hwever,                 tance to increa3c
no implementatinn.                            teriffs. Board re-
Jection of propose.
tariff.
5. Revision of TODD's finan-                              Government eqiit7 has been
cial relationship with the               -              ra.zed to TL 8 billionj as          -
reasury                                               of 1971 track maintenarnce
end repair  are - .orne by
Govermment. Other TMDD defi-
cits are reimbursed on an
annual basia.
6o Achlevement of working
ratio of 1                             1Q76                                               TCDD
7. Studies on rationalization/                            After one year delay Govern-                  Project was not
abandonment of uneconomic              1972             ment subeitted in April 1972       Govern-   processed by
lines, stations and services                            to UNDP their official re-         ment      State Planning
quest for technical assistance.              Organization.
e. Detailed studies for strength-                                                              see       see Item  7
ening TCDDE management struc-          1972                   see item 7                   item7
ture and recrgarizing its
administrationi/
see
9. Studies on op'timl aigna.l1ing         1972                   see item 7                  item 7      see item 7
10. Studies of nrw linea T  er-!:angal                      Studles ha"e not yet esrted.                  Delay by Goverrment
and Zonguldak-Eregli steel mill        1972                                                           of processing request
for UNDP technical
assistance.
1,' Signed April 1971.                                   / These studies form part of the envisaged reorgantization
2/ Article 8, Law l44G.                                     of TCDD as mentionod under item 2 above.
April 1973



*~~~~~~~~- -'
Prse 2
TURWE
Tuirkish Stat. Railwys (TCDD)
State of Iblesntation Of the Plan  of Action for Transport
Coordination and Trwkieh rbi1   a (TCDD)
II.  Plan of Wetion for Trartport
Coordinatiai V/
Agreed Date of                                                       Reason for
Activity or Event                  Covmpletion             Action Taken                By                re ay
1. Establishment of Trmns-          1970            A Transport Coordination  ro-   GOvern-   Qber-e dss arc.
port Coordination Agency                         ject Center (TCPC) was estab-    mnet       Governrent ministries over
lished, but since D*cember 1971,            the location ard ajthor4ty
.11 work h&a cwe to a halt.                 of TCPC.
2. Formulation of Transport         1970            A review of transport policy    TC'.    t'PC! !nrtionirg wai
Policy                                           statemen+% was carried out.                 t.aered by  &a1nr  in
However, the forvealation jf a              policy of ';vernwment
body of clear wid conMitent                 roncerning S?C,s 'Ts''
policies has nct yet   *n car-              3uperrisory *genry)
ried out dw  to staff litations.             inctions
3. Reorganization of Min-           1970/           Draft law has been prepsred by  Minis-
istry of Communications          1971            Ministry of Corwunications        try of
without seking for the advice   Commu-
of TCPC. The law now perding    nica-
in Parliament does not mater-   tions
ially cnange the Ministries'
organization.
1, Other Modifications of            1971           No action yet.                    TCPC and   taff problems
Organic Law required for                                                           other
consistency with the con-                                                          Mini.-
cept of transport coor-                                                            tr es
dination
5. Development of Mangemnt          1970            Start has been made.              T?Ct       Interrn ptior. -vr w1r r
Information System                                                                 TCDb ard  -FC
Dept. of
Highways,
eUt.
6. Relaxation of Import Res-        1971                                              TCPC,      Ministr es have. aot yet
trictions for transport                           No Action yet.                   Ministry   responded
equipaent                                                                          of Finance,
Ministry 01
Industry
7. Study of user charges            1971            Studies are almost finished.    TCPC         Studi,s haw  been inter-
rupted because of halt
of wrrk in TCPC since
becuexber 1071.
1/ Agrv-d between Government nd
Bank or August 27, 1970.
April 1973



_____-                                                                                  -m-
ANNEX 12
Page 1
TURKEY
Turkish State Railways (TCDD)
Economic Evaluation   Principal Assumptions
General
1.        The proposed investments up to 1982 would represent an increase in
the rate of investment of about three times the average investment expendi-
ture during Turkey's First and Second Five-Year Development Plans (10'53-1967
and 1968-1972). Such a substantial increase is indispensable to break the
vicious cycle of under-investment and progressive deterioration of operations.
The investment program takes into account TCDD's ability to execute it.
2.        Principal benefits of the inveLtment program would be (a) avoidance
of diversion of long-distance bulk heavy traffic to road, thus res;lting in
savings of vehicle operating costs 1/ and truck capital costs for moving the
diverted traffic; ard (b) savings in railway operating costs. The economic
benefits to be derived from thte diversion of TCDD passenger traffic to road
traffic have not been considered, sinze, for lack of adequate data, it was
not possible to estimate time-savings of road passenger traffic, the most
important component of the benefits for passenger traffic. Equally, possible
increases in highway maintenance cost, h4ghway investment cost and the cost
of congestion and pollution have not been considered, due to lack of reliable
information.  Following are details of the principal assumptions for the
cost/benefit analysis.
1/   Only the marginal vehicle operating custs were taken into account.



Page 2
Vehicle Operating Cost
3.        The following vehicle operating costs were used in the comparison:
Cost Item TL per year)
Fuel                                                  19,575
Motor Oil                                              4,125
Tires and Tubes                                       20,;33
Crew Wages                                            25,980
Maintenance and Repaf.                                16,500
Insurance
Depreciation
Cost of Capital                                         -
87,113
Vehicle-km p.a.                                       75,000
Operating cost per vehicle--km                             1.162
Payload (tons)                                             8.5
Load factor                                                  .7
Operating cost per ton-km                                  0.195
Technical Pata:
Vehicle life - 8 years
Tire life      - 45,000 k.
4.        The vehicle operating costs given above are calculated on the basis
cf level-hilly terrain. For mountainous terrain, the data should be multiplied
by a factor of 1.15 and, for extremely rugged terrain, b7 a factor of 1.30.
AltL.ough much of the possible diverted traffic (iron ore) would lead through
mountainous and rugged terrains, this has not been considered in the road/rail
cost comparison. The vehicle operating cost given above con therefore be re-
garded as a conservative estimate.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Rail Working Cost
5.        It has been estimated tAxat TCDD's carrying capacity would decrease
from a level of about 6 bl'lion ton-km in 1972 to about 5 billion ton-km
(-16%) by 1990, which means that, in addition to a decrease of the present
level of the tzaffic, all traffic growth generated by the planned development
of ore deposits and other industrial projects would have to be transported by
road vehicles (see columns 1, 2 and 3 of page 4).
6.        Rail working costs 1/ are expected to retain about their 1972
level until 1Y-7, as a consequence of the operating improvements generated by
the investment program, and thereafter to increase by about 5% annually. By
contrast, without the investment, rail working costs would increase by about
15% annually up to 1976 and then decline gradually as a result of disinvest-
ments in plant and equipment and a reduction of personnel (see columns, 5, 6
and 7 of page 4).
7.        For ease of.comparison, the principal data used le the cost/benefit
analysis are reproduced in the table on page 4.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.        Sensitive factors in the economic evaluation are future railway
traffic, railway investment cost, and future railway wortir.g cost and vehicle
operating cost. The table on page 5 presents the variations in the economic
return if one or a combination of the factors mentioned above are changed:
I/   D~efined as total operating expenses minus d- r--'=:.1on an! transfer
payments.



Turkish State Rai v!r  (TCDD)
3atimat.s for the Econodic Evaluation
Retainod Traffic                   Traftic Diverted to Road
Freight Traffic (Mi1l. Ton-km)                                            Workin& Cost V                        Incremental Cost 1/             Total Berefits
without                                                          (mill. FL)                            (mill. nt)                     (Col. 7+11.9)
Year            With        (retained    Difference          Railway             Without        With        Difference          Vehicle         Road               (Kill. TL)
trarfic)   (diverted           inveetnent               investment                                 operating       Truck
ImestrAent            traffic)          (Kill. tL)                                                            cost       Investment
11)            (2)          (3)                 (i)                (5)           (6)           (7)                (8)            (9)                  (10)
1972          5,959           5,959            0                 515             1,164         1,164              0                   c             0                     0
1973          6,135           5,890         245                  899             1,319         1,107            213                   b            8b                   301
1974          6,476           5,820         656                1,029             1,500         1,03G            470                  16           130                   616
1975         6,668            5,750          918                 971             1.714         1,029            685                  20            95                   800
1976          8,480           5,680       2,800                  999             1,951           795          1,156                 168           545                 1,869
1977          8,594           5,653       2,9L4                1,030             1,822           779          1,0l3                 1.83           63                 1,289
1978          9,282           5,620       h,209                1,000             1,708           754            954                 278           225                 1,b57
1979         10,024           5,590        b,566               1,000             1,604           728            876                 320           240                 1,43C
1980         11,402           5,550        5,852               1,000             1,506           668            83S                 462           419                 1,1719
i981         12,200           5,510       6,690                1,000             1,416           650            766                 549           367                 1,682
1982         13,054           5,473       7,584                1,000             1,345           633            712                 637           427                 1,776
1933         13,968           5,430        5,538                 50Y)            1,278            618           660                 734           398                 1,792
1994         14,9h5           5,370        9,575                                 1,214            599           615                 543           899                 2,357
19S5         15,692           5,290      10,402                                  1,154            591           563                 915           323                 1,801
1936         16,147           5,220       11,227                                 1,095            583            512                988           b36                 1,986
1987         17,3C1           5,160       12,141                                 1,150           573             577              1,068           535                 2,18C
1988         18,166           5,110       13,056                                  1,207           566           641               1,162           707                 2, 510.
1989         19,075           5,000       14,075                                 1,266            552            71.h             1,253           666                 2,633
1990            ,               ,I
2000         19,075           5,O0        114,075                500              1,266           552            714              1,253           666                 2,633
1 Net of tranifer palen'ts and dPpreciation; only freight costs.
April ±973



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Case                           Variation                       Econouic Return
Best Estimate                                                         26%
(1)                      Railway Investment
cost:  + 10%                               21%
(2)                      Decrease in traffic growth:
(a) -20%                                   25%
(b) -40%                                   16%
(3)                      Decrease of benefits from.
reduced railway working costs:
(a) -10%,                                  232
(b) - 40%                                  162
(4)                      Decrease of benefits frcm savings
in road vehicle operating cost and
investment in trucks: -10%                 232
,  (5)                   Case four and, additionally,
case three (a)                             20%
(6)                      Cases one and five ccimbined                16%
(7)                      Decrease in railway investment
cost: -10%                                  33%
(8)                      Increase in benefits from reduced
railway working costs:  +10%               30%
(9)                      Increase in benefits from savings in
road and investment in trucks: +10(%        28%
(10)                      Increase in benefits from savirv,4
in road vehicle operating cost:  +!57    28%
(11)                      Combination of all optimistic
ascumptions (Cases 7 to 9)                  41%
Competitive Relationship between Road and Railway
9.        The following table shows the economic cost of transporting one ton
of goods with general goods loading characteristics and in ful' wagon loads,
over selected links of the Turkish transport network:



amzu
Tw1u h t.         N isr  (TCDD)
Co.petitive Relationxhip Between Road and Rail on
Interwanal Links by 1979  (TL/ton)-
Destination        l.CeGLxpiner  2.Sa_un  3 sliante.  4..Cankiri  S.Adana   6.zovuldsk   7.Anars    .                9bol lo.            lZb 11skehir  12.         13.Instanbil   1     ai. r
Orgna                        ba                                          a  ba b    a              b     a              b aa          a   b    a       b      a                        b
1. ErWmra.                         U5   82    107   137                122 163    180    180  1141  154.  113 217                                                     211    22R
2 .1"                122      75                78    99                 92 99    185    2O1  11,6 175                         101  99                                225    240
3. Diyarbaktr                                   65    57    137  175    80  99    173    201   134  175                         89   9
4. Erslean                                      79   10?                 94. 139    152    1O8  113  151
5. ?latya                                                                19 107    1142    209                                  58  106
6. Sameun                                                               110 118    151.    9S                85  50   121 116 113  11.s
7. Siv                                                                  68 91    111       92                                   70   91
8. Gaslantap                                                             39  1.2   163    142   126  116                        ha  162
9. iajerl                                                               13 61       85     88   16  61                 57  75                                         126    135   148  182
10. Adan                                                                            126    102    87   76    17 26    49  59                105    115    8. 102       153    2$o   1. 167
U. Z ogu2alk                                                                                      56   26    9885   13B   70 126  102        U       59  106 9-        136     47
12. Ankara                                                                                                    59 59  87 11                   31      39    52   46      80     73    105  UO
13.   i                                                                                                                 39 72   28   58                               1i1    109
11. lonpa                                                                                                                        51   59                   34    3     101.   118      92  129
15. Herein                                                                                                                                  107    115                                11.3  182
16. Eskisehir                                                                                                                                              21  31                      73   95
17. Afyon                                                                                                                                                               69      92     57   87
18. Intanbal                                                                                                                                                                          10108 1
a * rail traffic
b * road traffic
V Cost estitateS ha" been made by rT?ALNSULT, Transport. Coorjination Servtces in Turkey, Ro2e, July 1971.
VotOs:  In the cost calculations the rolloving elemwnts have been considered
i)  Coit of capital wa assued at Zi%.
b) Taxes are excluded.
c)  Terminal transport and handling facilities for rail transport are in. ludi cni es imateJ to averag  abojt IL 15 per ton for those co.moditivs wht'!. reqniire *rIship47t.
4xri1 1973



AWNEX 13
Page 1
TURKEY
Turkish State Railwavs (TCDD)
Financial Forecasts - Principal Assumptions
The financial projections are based on the following principal
assumptions:
1.   Passenger and freight traffic forecasts (Tables 6 and 8).
2.   Constant 1972 wage and price le--els.  The wage agreement with the
workers is valid until mid-1973; employees' wages were raised
substant'allv in 1970 and TCDD does not expect significant wage
increases for several years.
3.   Dieselization program etc. as now covered in the Investment Plan.
4.   Staff reductions of about 1,400 personnel in 1972 (part of this
already implemented by TCDD), and 650 personnel in each of the
years 1973, 1974 and 1975.
5.   Selective Tariff adjustments given effect to by TCDD during 1972 and
adjustments being made from January    1973 - i.e. average increase in
current terms of 32.5%, for freight traffic. 332 for suhurban passenger
traffic, and about 20%. in main line passenger traffic - are taken into
account and included under the additional revenue from tariff adjust-
ments Shown separately In Table 13. Further tariff adjustments, in
constant terms, a, follows:
Freight - Average increases of f1% from January 1975, ane
10% from January 1977; and
Passenger - Average increases of 21% each from January 1975
iromn January 1977 in respect of main line nassenger
traffic; average increases of 15% from January 1975
and 10% from January 1977 in respect of suburban
traffic.
The additional revenue is indicated separatelv in constant January
1972 terms in Table 13. Further, if staff costs are increased in
constant terms and to offset inflationary cost increases, additional
adjustments would be made to compensate the higher costs to the ex-
tent such costs cannot be offset by lower expenses or greater traffic
than included in the forecasts.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
6.   Resu'.ts of revaluaticn of assets and review of depreciation rates not
anticipated.
7.   Turkish Lira 14 -1 US$
B.   A rough estimate of losses on account of uneconomic lines and services
;;es been made, on present lata, and the reduction that is considered
feasible is indicated separately in Table 13. A refinement of this
would follow the proposed consultant's study.
9.   Expenditure on track maintenance and repair is included in 'Working
Expenses' and Government reimburserent thereof is not considered
either operational revenue or reduction of working expenses for t1.e
purposes of determining the working ratio. Such reimbursement is
shown separately In Table 13.
10.  The proposed IBRD loan of US$47 million equivalent with an interest
rate of 7.25% per annum and repayment in 25 years, including a five-
year grace period.
11.  The proposed IBRD loan of US$47 million equivalent with an interest
rate of 7.25% per annum and repayment in 25 years, including a five-year
grace period.
12. Lending from international sources totalling approximately US$64 mil-
lion to cover some foreign exchange needs from 1975-1977, on the same
terms as 11 preceding.
13. Terms of existing European Investment Bank loan of US$11 million
equivalent. Further European Investment Bank loan and French bi-
lateral assistance for diesel locomotive manufacture and production
facilities at Eskisehir, to cover requirements till 1977, the terms
of the loans being 7% rate of interest and repayment in 25 years,
including four years' grace.
April 1973



BULGARIA                                       8015~USS
!~~~~~                                                                ~~~                        ~ s-., ,!  C) 
'~~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )                                               R''S°°!     
wU . ^ >    -.   '' ^ '              °                 ^                              o o,.                                                    J 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Is 4  A N
Oc.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.   / t \           ~~~TURKEY1--
g wd #w or o  n  e       5 we   4. '4siAVERAGE ANNUAL DAI LY TRAFFIC                                          - 
_. o rJo a) 300 ~~~~~N                                                                 VOlUME 1969 t
c                 x o^"ers               J~~~ S Y R I A\7 
_  ~     ~~~ so SC     1      150    200            C Y P Q                                                                                   -      _ 
(3~~~~~~~~~~~



i     A     c                     5      E     A
3 UL'GARIA_ o                                                              (              - A                      TURKEY
).RIW U  s SS R.
GREEC zv^s   :
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 2X 4                                         R,' rAu AN  :
MAOM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~      
*  '*, ~ '
i  , .      < t        X               =_                   5  /            / * t [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R  A e 
.>               >    .                           .Ne1e  !  *                 S Y R I A
dr ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    t>                                       TURKEYI
e  t-\                                  j-* >-'    .              4        ~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAY SYSTEM
M4  D I r   F R R A N t A N    S    E A                                        ..F-N~.'of.I :J@N%tE~S
0      190    200     3 0
KILOMETERS                                           .



TURKEY
TURKISH STATE RAILWAYS (T(
TCDD TRAFFIC FLOWS IN GROSS TON-KM PER
TRACK CONDITIONS AND TRACK RENEVV'AL PRC
EDiRNE
'~  ~jz~n~oi$~ OMo7dv*2a                                                  K Es*4.o
757                     .3
CF    /                      1275        ISTANB&A       Gebie Apoozorl
Marmorea                                               ..
2261    -
O  MANISAKA;e                                            
BALIKESIR I'       4613    lunIZlI
i.P~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~1
k   SownrJ g    $   tt02  C V       g~~~~~rac  in goodt                 cond5or
| G  4     @        h      >         ~~~~~~~~~102  ,,,. .K'/U          -, r
Trrcit n goir candion
4  '                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Track; renewol with new materials 1972 74   ,,
4                               .                                       TrackT renewal wit new materals 1975-7 7
N                  ..\,...                                               Trock renewol witbh secor.d hand materils 1975-77
g            .          . \                   ........ . ~~~Tracki renewal with new materiok  19 78 -82
On                                 *- Track renewal wth second hand moterols
o l                oG                200              9               \ Trock in moor condition not ncluded inany Program
!I       I              II
Kilomeiears                              _.         isternational boundory
_ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Toki  orcniinntictddi  n   rga



IBRD 10077
TCDD)                                                                                                U. S  S R                   {
ER ROUTE KM 1970,
ROGRAMS 1972-82                              8  A C I           S A
SAMSLN                           .     .(
AMASYAO
859
'40?~~~~~
\         (eCovo  o                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUS ,
ELAZIC     243                         1   .-,
"of   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ho,~gb
KAYSERI                                  _    Ycot,,
/                                            MoR,,.  'r,   OCALATYA  ?02            S72
//*                                                 *S 'a\,,R ,E ., N
DiYARBAKIR
R'A AS             &
SS°    eANTEPSYRIA
4  631  Twkkt  Q-
/    ADl-                          LI4-           N-
2259                         SYRIA
Gross Ton-Km of Passenger Trains
3                  .      Gross Ton -Km of Goods Troins                   I
Gross Ton -Km figures given in thowsands
. .                                                                I' o' . "J 1 ! ., - ;,, -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.



