           Document of
         The World Bank


                                   Report No: 70082-AR




      RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

 PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                OF
AR-GEF SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT AND
        AIR QUALITY PROJECT

        NOVEMBER 4, 2008


             TO THE

      ARGENTINE REPUBLIC


          JULY 12, 2012
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


GEF     Global Environmental Facility
GHG     Greenhouse gases
ISR     Implementation Status Report
PTUMA   Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project
STAQ    Sustainable Transport and Air Quality
PDO     Project Development Objective
BRT     Bus Rapid Transit
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
NMT     Non Motorized Transport




           Regional Vice President:        Hasan A. Tuluy
                  Country Director:        Penelope J. Brook
          Sector Manager / Director:       Aurelio Menendez/
                                           Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                 Task Team Leader:         Veronica Ines Raffo

                                       2
                               ARGENTINA
          AR-GEF SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY PROJECT
                                 P114008
                               CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                 Page
A. SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B. PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 4
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ................................................. 6




                                                                   3
      AR-GEF SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY PROJECT

                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER



A. SUMMARY

1.      The proposed level 2 restructuring of the Argentina Sustainable Transport and Air
Quality Project (STAQ) seeks: (i) a one-year extension of the Closing Date in order to
match the implementation window of partner projects - Regional GEF STAQ, Brazil
GEF STAQ, and Mexico GEF STAQ as well as to complete certain activities under the
project; and (ii) an adjustment to the project’s results framework. Both changes will have
no impact in the project’s development objectives, activities and implementation
arrangements.

2.      The Argentina STAQ project (US$3.987 million) was prepared based on local
governments’ submissions in 2005. Because of a two-year effectiveness delay, the
original assumptions regarding the timing of GEF-financed and of co-financed activities
proved unrealistic. In addition, the time required for project impacts to materialize is also
longer than originally anticipated because such impacts depend in part on complementary
investments that will be completed only several years after the Grant is closed.
Consequently, planned outcomes have to be changed.


B. PROJECT STATUS

3.      The Argentina STAQ project is part of the Regional Sustainable Transport and
Air Quality Program (the STAQ Program1), a partnership between the World Bank and
the Global Environmental Facility which aims at supporting cities in reducing the rate of
growth of greenhouse emissions from the transport sector in the Latin American and
Caribbean Region. The Project was approved by the Board in November 2008, but was
only declared effective on August 4, 2010 and is expected to close on December 31,
2012. A midterm review was carried out on March 2012 which concluded that a second
order restructuring was necessary.

4.     Despite delayed project effectiveness, the project is delivering on its
development objectives of assisting cities in increasing the use of less energy intensive
transport modes and inducing policy changes in favor of sustainable transport. However,
the implementation is not at the pace and scale envisioned during project design.

5.      Currently, the project is on a reasonable path to deliver on promised GEF-
financed outputs. The grant has financed various initiatives that are well aligned with
projects objectives, including, inter alia, campaigns to promote bicycle use, the
construction of bicycle lanes, a conference on Sustainable Transport in Rosario, and the

1
  The STAQ Program is structured into four projects: b) three Country Specific Projects involving a core
group of 11 cities of Argentina, Brazil and Mexico and b) the Regional Project focused at Latin American
level, which is being executed by the Clean Air Institute.
                                                    4
design of 3 km. of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in Posadas. Yet, to deliver on planned
outcomes will require: (i) the implementation of co-financed investments –both from the
Bank-financed Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project (PTUMA, P095485) and
from initial government commitments – some of which will only be completed after
grant closure; and (ii) reasonable time – at least five years - for natural behavioral
adjustments to take place. Therefore, progress on outcomes - for reasons mostly beyond
the control of project implementers - has been rated in the last Implementation Status
Report as Moderately Unsatisfactory. An action plan to improve progress on outcomes
has been agreed upon with the Project Implementation Unit which is reflected in the mid-
term review Aide Memoire of March 2012.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

6.   Extension. This paper will extend the closing date from December 31, 2012 until
December 31, 2013. This will be the first extension of the project.

7.      Changes in Results Framework. The results framework will be modified by
adding one PDO level result indicator, dropping two PDO level results indicators and by
revising the language of four intermediate results indicators. The proposed changes will
not modify the original PDO, will not require any reallocation of funds and will not have
any implications for the Regional GEF STAQ project. For specific changes refer to
Annex 1.

8.       The rationale for the proposed changes in the results framework are as follows:

        Delays in grant effectiveness resulted in the late completion of grant financed
         investments. There was a two year delay in grant effectiveness, which has
         effectively reduced the project implementation period to 1.5 years. While it
         appears that most of the promised outputs will still be delivered using the
         financing of some combination of the grant and the accompanying IBRD loan –
         there will be a significant delay in output delivery relative to what was originally
         scheduled and there is a need to update the indicators to reflect this delay.

        Some of the outcome indicators reflect longer-term outcomes which would
         have been difficult to reach by project closure even in the most optimistic
         scenarios. In many cases the GEF project is financing preparatory studies for
         infrastructure investments that will subsequently be constructed, in some cases
         financed by the complementary IBRD loan. In such cases the infrastructure will
         be completed in the coming years, long after the GEF project will close.
         However, the original outcome indicators for the GEF project reflected outcomes
         expected only after this infrastructure has been built and is in full commercial use.
         For example, the grant finances the detailed design of a mass transit corridor in
         the city of Rosario and the government, through PTUMA, is expected to finance
         the infrastructure. The project’s results framework accounted for emission
         reductions which were to take place after corridor implementation. This approach
         overlooks the fact that: (i) construction will finish only after the project is closed,


                                               5
       and (ii) for the emissions reductions to be locked-in, a behavioral shift must take
       place which will happen only after the project is fully operational.

9.       With hindsight, it is clear now to the project team that although GEF financed
project outputs were reasonable, project outcomes were overly ambitious and not
achievable within the timeframe of the GEF grant. The two changes proposed in this
grant restructuring will align the project’s indicator framework to a realistic
implementation timeframe – both for GEF-financed outputs and outcomes resulting from
follow-on complementary investments – and allow what is a fundamentally successful
initiative to be appropriately assessed.




                                            6
                                                         ANNEX 1:
                                             Results Framework and Monitoring
                        ARGENTINA: AR-GEF SUSTAINABLE AND TRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY PROJECT


Project Development Objective (PDO): in the objectives of the Project are to assist the Eligible Municipalities to:: (i) reduce GHG emissions by increasing the use of less energy
intensive transport modes in cities; and (ii) induce policy changes in favor of sustainable transport projects.

Revised Project Development Objective: n/a

                                                                  D=Dropped                                 Cumulative Target
                                                                  C=Continue                                   Values**
                                                                  N= New                                                                                               Responsibility



                                                           Core
                                                                               Unit of                                                               Data Source/
           PDO Level Results Indicators*                          R=Revised                 Baseline                                  Frequency                          for Data
                                                                               Measure                  YR     YR      YR                            Methodology
                                                                                                                              YR4                                       Collection
                                                                                                         1      2       3

Indicator One: Number of trips in public transportation               D        PT Trips     0           0      0      0       0       n/a           n/a               n/a
increase in intervened corridors compared to corridor
baseline

**Explanation: This indicator was dropped because
none of the public transportation interventions to be
designed under this project will be implemented by the
time the project is closed and evaluated.
Indicator Two: Number of NMT trips increase in                        C        % of         0           0      0      0       5       Annual        Traffic counts    Cities
intervened areas compared to corridor baseline                                 NMT                                                    report
                                                                               trips
Indicator Three: Decrease of CO2-equivalent tons                      D        T-CO2        N/A         0      0      0       0       n/a           n/a               n/a
emitted by ground transport in intervened corridors
**Explanation: This indicator was dropped because
infrastructure interventions need a longer time frame to
consolidate emission reductions.
Indicator Four: Number of cities that are integrating                 C        Cities       0           0      0      1       1       Annual        Information       Cities
environment and climate change components, with                                                                                       report        Provided by
urban transport, and land use into master plans and                                                                                                 Participating
studies developed, including regulatory and financial                                                                                               Cities
frameworks that foster sustainable transport systems at
local and national level
Indicator Five: Number of new other transport                      N        #           0           0       0     0         3    Annual         Information     Cities
initiatives aimed at enabling use of less energy                                                                                 report         Provided by
transportation modes                                                                                                                            Participating
**Explanation: This indicator was added as a realistic                                                                                          Cities
indicator of the enabling characteristics of this project



                                                                         INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (W2 Transport and Urban Planning): Designs of policies and regulations for sustainable land use and transport development
Revised Intermediate Result (W2 Transport and Urban Planning): n/a

Intermediate Result indicator One: Number of cities           R             Cities      0               0   0     0     4       Annual       Information        Cities
with revised/new land-use policies and regulations                                                                              report       Provided by
designed/proposed that create incentives for more                                                                                            Participating
efficient and sustainable transport oriented development                                                                                     Cities

**Explanation: The change consisted in adding
“revised/new? before “land-use? to facilitate the
definition of a baseline indicator.
Intermediate Result (W3 Public Transport Enhancement): Design and implementation of mass transit system in cities and strengthen capacity to promote interconnectivity with
other transport modes
Revised Intermediate Result (W3 Public Transport Enhancement): Design of mass transit system in cities and strengthen capacity to promote interconnectivity with other transport
modes
**Explanation: “ Design and implementation of mass? was replaced by “Design of mass? to reflect that BRT Kms will not be completed by ICR date
Intermediate Result indicator One: Number of                 R             Km           0              0   0      0     4      Annual        Information         Cities
segregated BRT with final design in cities                                                                                     report        Provided by
                                                                                                                                             Participating
** Explanation: This indicator is modified from                                                                                              Cities
“implemented BRT?s to “BRTs with final designs?
since civil works of BRT Kms will not be completed by
ICR date.
Intermediate Result indicator Two: Number of cities          C             Initiatives 0               0   0      0     2      Annual        Information         PIU
preparing or implementing specific measures to                                                                                 report        Provided by
promote inter-connectivity among transport modes.                                                                                            Participating
                                                                                                                                             Cities/ PIU
Intermediate Result (W4 Non Motorized Transport): Increase public use, awareness and acceptance of cycling as mode of transport in cities and develop local capacity to design
non-motorized facilities in selected cities
Revised Intermediate Result (W3 Non Motorized Transport): n/a




                                                                                       8
Intermediate Result indicator One: Number of                     R             Cyclist      0            0     0     0     5%     Annual         Information     Cities
increased cyclist in intervened corridors/areas                                                                                   report         Provided by
 **Explanation: The change consisted in adding                                                                                                   Participating
“increased? before “cyclist? to facilitate the definition                                                                                        Cities
of a baseline indicator. The team has also added a
target which was missing.
Intermediate Result indicator Two: Number of km of               R             Km           0            0     0     0     6.3    Annual         Information     PIU
additional pedestrian bikeways and ancillary facilities                                                                           report         Provided by
built.                                                                                                                                           Participating
**Explanation: The change consisted in replacing                                                                                                 Cities/ PIU
“pedestrian bikeways and ancillary facilities? by
“bikeways? to correct a typo and facilitate measuring.
The team has also added a target which was missing.
                            :
                                         *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)
                                          **Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually.




                                                                                          9
