                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank


                                                                                   Report No: 81545-AR




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                         OF
                         AR-GEF SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT AND
                                 AIR QUALITY PROJECT

                                        NOVEMBER 4, 2008


                                                TO THE

                                     ARGENTINE REPUBLIC


                                       SEPTEMBER 11, 2013




SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGION

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


GEF     Global Environmental Facility
GHG     Greenhouse gases
ISR     Implementation Status Report
PTUMA   Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project
STAQ    Sustainable Transport and Air Quality
PDO     Project Development Objective
BRT     Bus Rapid Transit
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
NMT     Non Motorized Transport




           Regional Vice President:        Hasan A. Tuluy
                  Country Director:        Penelope J. Brook
          Sector Manager / Director:       Aurelio Menendez/
                                           Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                 Task Team Leader:         Veronica Ines Raffo




                                       2
Restructuring                                                                              Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level two
Last modified on date : 09/11/2013

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                               P114008: AR-GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality
                                                Project
Country                                         Argentina
Task Team Leader                                Verónica Ines Raffo
Sector Manager/Director                         Aurelio Menendez/Ede J. Ijjasz-Vasquez
Country Director                                Penelope J. Brook
Original Board Approval Date                    11/04/2008
Original Closing Date:                          12/31/2012
Current Closing Date                            12/31/2013
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]           10/31/2014
EA Category                                     B-Partial Assessment
Revised EA Category                             B-Partial Assessment-Partial Assessment
EA Completion Date                              04/20/2006
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                                       Local                         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                7.73                       7.73
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                                 3.99                       3.99
Total                                                            11.72                      11.72


3. Borrower
        Organization                            Department                            Location
Argentine Republic                                                        Argentina


4. Implementing Agency
         Organization                            Department                           Location
Buenos Aires Urban Transport            Secretary of Transport           Argentina
Implementing Unit




                                                  3
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 09/03/2013                                                           1.54
         Fiscal Year                              Annual                             Cumulative
2014                                                         2.44                                  2.44
                                                         Total                                     2.44


6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                 N


Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select from           N
the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.




7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The Argentina Project follows the higher level objectives of the Regional Program, and have a common
focus in assisting participant cities in: (i) towards reducing GHG emissions by increasing use of less energy
intensive transport modes in cities; and (ii) inducing policy changes in favor of sustainable transport
projects.



7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]




                                                  4
                             ARGENTINA
        AR-GEF SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY PROJECT
                               P114008
                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                   Page
A.   SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 6
B.   PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 6
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 7
D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY.................................................................................................... 8




                                                                  5
     AR-GEF SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY PROJECT

                                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER



A. SUMMARY

1.     The proposed level 2 restructuring of the Argentina Sustainable Transport and Air
Quality Project (STAQ) seeks a ten-month extension of the Closing Date in order to
complete certain activities under the project.

2.      The Argentina STAQ project (US$3.987 million) was prepared based on local
governments’ submissions in 2005. Because of a two-year effectiveness delay, the
original assumptions regarding the timing of GEF-financed and of co-financed activities
proved unrealistic.


B. PROJECT STATUS

3.      The Argentina STAQ project is part of the Regional Sustainable Transport and
Air Quality Program (the STAQ Program1), a partnership between the World Bank and
the Global Environmental Facility which aims at supporting cities in reducing the rate of
growth of greenhouse emissions from the transport sector in the Latin American and
Caribbean Region. The Project was approved by the Board in November 2008, but was
only declared effective on August 3, 2010 and is expected to close on December 31,
2013. A midterm review was carried out in March 2012 which concluded that a second
order restructuring was necessary in order to match the implementation window of
partner projects - Regional GEF STAQ, Brazil GEF STAQ, and Mexico GEF STAQ as
well as to complete certain activities under the project. This second order restructuring
was approved in July 2012.

4.     Implementation has caught up with expectations and the significant delays
experienced during the second semester of 2012 have been overcome. Despite this,
concern remains as the closing date approaches. Progress towards the PDO is now
considered to be satisfactory. Available funds are fully committed, with contracts under
execution or in the process of being signed. However, the implementation of activities
under these contracts is not at the pace envisioned during project design and though some
key contracts have moved forward, they are expected to be completed in the first
semester of 2014, as per agreements reached with the new authorities.

5.      Currently, the project is on a reasonable path to deliver on promised GEF-
financed outputs. The grant has financed various initiatives that are well aligned with
projects objectives, including, inter alia, campaigns to promote bicycle use, the
construction of bicycle lanes, a conference on Sustainable Transport in Rosario, and the

1
  The STAQ Program is structured into four projects: a) three Country Specific Projects involving a core
group of 11 cities of Argentina, Brazil and Mexico and b) the Regional Project focused at Latin American
level, which is being executed by the Clean Air Institute.
                                                   6
design of 3 km. of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in Posadas. Yet, to deliver on planned
outcomes will require: (i) the implementation of co-financed investments –both from the
Bank-financed Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project (PTUMA, P095485) and
from initial government commitments – some of which will only be completed after
grant closure; and (ii) reasonable time – at least five years - for natural behavioral
adjustments to take place. Therefore, progress on outcomes - for reasons mostly beyond
the control of project implementers - has been rated in the last Implementation Status
Report as Moderately Satisfactory. An action plan to improve progress on outcomes has
been agreed upon with the Project Implementation Unit which is reflected in the mid-
term review Aide Memoire of March 2012.


C. PROPOSED CHANGES

6.      Extension. This paper will extend the closing date from December 31, 2013 until
October 31, 2014, a 10-month extension. This will be the second extension of the project
for a total of 22 months of extension of the original closing date, taking into consideration
the 12-month extension approved in July 2012.

7.       The rationale for the proposed change in the closing date are as follows:

        Delays in grant effectiveness resulted in the late completion of grant financed
         investments. There was a two year delay in grant effectiveness, which has
         effectively reduced the project implementation period to 2.5 years.

        Delays in implementation as a consequence of the internal restructuring
         process of the PIU. In part as a result of allegations in the press (in 2012) of
         irregularities in the procurement and implementation of selected contracts
         financed by the project, governance is a significant issue for the PTUMA and
         GEF projects. There has been a complete turnover in the project’s management
         team in the last year and the new team seems to be committed to cleaning up both
         in terms of specific cases and in terms of improving management systems for the
         future. Still, governance issues are expected to remain critical for the project in
         the short-term. Implementation has caught up with expectations and the
         significant delays experienced during the second semester of 2012 have been
         overcome. Despite this, concern remains as the closing date approaches that
         contracts under execution will not be completed in time before the established
         grant closing date.

        The need to dismiss key projects delayed disbursements. A key project (bike
         sharing program in Rosario) had to be dismissed because offers presented during
         the bidding process in the first semester of 2013 doubled the available budget for
         the project. This was replaced by a new civil works contract to build additional
         kilometers of bikeways, as per the agreement reached between the PIU and
         municipal authorities. This contract has recently been awarded and works are
         expected to commence in October 2013. The task team has facilitated the visit of
         various consultants to build capacity both at the PIU and city level (e.g. in the
         case of Rosario and Posadas) to prepare better and more specific terms of

                                              7
       reference for new contracts. Also, the task team is working closely with the PIU
       and technical teams in participating cities to speed up implementation of activities
       under ongoing contracts and supporting involvement of the city in the supervision
       of contract execution.

      The need for more time to develop a key project in Posadas. The design of 3
       km. of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in Posadas is currently under execution at a stage
       where it has triggered the need to carry out a public consultation process. This is a
       key aspect of the process, given that the Project generated a significant amount of
       social sensitivity since it was first envisioned. The contract for the public
       consultation has been awarded. Due to sociopolitical reasons, the social
       consultation workshops will be carried out in November 2013 (after mid-term
       legislative elections on October 27, 2013), and the consulting firm in charge of
       the design of the BRT estimates that a further six months will be needed to
       complete the detailed design after being presented with the results of the
       consultation process, in order to fully and properly incorporate its conclusions.



D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

Proposed changes correspond only to an extension on the Project’s Closing Date. The
changes do not affect other aspects of the project (Costs, Disbursements, Economic and
financial analysis, Technical, Social, Environmental, etc.).




                                             8
