 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14781

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Argentina
             Project ID: P114008                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Ar-gef Sustainable            Project Costs (US$M):                      11.72               13.58
                         And Transport And Air
                         Quality Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        3.99                3.88
      Sector Board:      Environment                  Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  11/04/2008
                                                                Closing Date:             12/31/2012          10/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Public administration- Transportation (63%); Urban Transport (37%)
          Theme(s):        Climate change (60%); Pollution management and environmental health (20%);
                           Environmental policies and institutions (10%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery
                           (10%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The Global Environment Objective (GEO) was "to assist the Eligible Municipalities to: (a) reduce GHG emissions by
increasing the use of less energy intensive transport modes in cities; and (b) induce policy changes in favor of
sustainable transport projects" (Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant Agreement dated May 14, 2010, p. 6). The
GEO statement in the Project Document (p.6) is identical.

This project was part of the Latin America GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality (STAQ) Program Horizontal
Adaptable Policy Loan (APL), which aimed to reduce the rate of growth of GHG emissions from transport in Latin
America through the promotion of less energy intensive and cleaner modes of transport. The STAQ Program was
divided into four projects: a regional project (P096017) and three country projects in Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

1. Better coordination and integration of transport and land -use planning and environmental management (appraisal
US$0.82 million, with GEF grant at US$0.21 million; actual US$1.97 million, with GEF grant at US$0.34 million). This
component included technical assistance measures for the city of Tucuman to foster more integrated transport and
land-use planning to reduce the use of private motor vehicles, reduce trip lengths and increase accessibility to public
and non-motorized transport.
2. Modal Interconnection , and Effectiveness and Efficiency of Public Transport (appraisal US$8.49 million, with GEF
grant at US$2.38 million; actual US$7.23 million, with GEF grant at US$1.04 million).This component included pilot
investments and technical assistance for the cities of Cordoba, Posadas, and Rosario to facilitate the improvement of
public transport systems and/or improve the effectiveness and inter- connectivity of those systems with other modes
of transport, inducing mode switching away from private cars.

3. Non-motorized transport (appraisal US$2.41 million, with GEF grant at US$1.4 million; actual US$4.1 million, with
GEF grant US$2.24 million). This component included pilot investments and technical assistance for the cities of
Cordoba and Rosario to better integrate walking and biking into the culture and planning processes of cities, and to
create incentives for their use.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost : The total project cost was US$13.58 million at closure, 16% higher than the appraised estimate of
US$11.72 million.

Financing: The project was funded by a Bank's GEF Trust Fund grant in the amount of US$3.99 million, which was
disbursed at US$3.88 million by project closure.

Borrower Contribution : The borrower contribution was initially estimated at US$7.73 million, but disbursements
amounted to US$9.7 million, or 125% of the initial commitment.

Dates: The project was approved on November 4, 2008 and made effective on August 4, 2010. The grant was
restructured twice: (i) on July 7, 2012 to extend the closing date by one year from December 31, 2012 to December
31, 2013, and modify the project results framework, including the GEO outcome indicators; and (ii) on September 11,
2013 to extend the grant closing date by an additional 10 months to October 31, 2014 to complete the project
activities. Given the changes from the September 2013 restructure, IEG has split the efficacy ratings to reflect this
change. Relevance ratings do not change as the objective was not changed.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Substantial.
The development objective remains relevant to the country's development priorities and the World Bank Group's
FY15-18 Country Partnership Strategy for Argentina, which focused on integrated urban development and sustainable
transport solutions, including less energy intensive transport options in cities. The ICR does not make a specific
reference to the Government relevant planning and strategic documents. The objective was aligned with the higher
level objective of the STAQ Program, which was consistent with the programmatic goals of GEF Operation Policy
(OP) 11 and the GEF Strategic Priority in the Climate Change focal area 6. GEF grants under OP 11 are to promote
the implementation of low carbon technologies, modal shifts to less polluting forms of transport, and interventions
related to bus rapid transit systems, non-motorized transport, traffic management, and land use planning.

b. Relevance of Design:

Modest.
Technical assistance and pilot interventions under the project were designed to support the integration of land use,
transport and environmental planning, modal shift to public transport, and non-motorized transport. These were
expected to increase the use of less energy intensive transport modes in the selected cities, reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, and induce policy changes in favor of sustainable transport projects. Four metropolitan areas were
selected in Argentina- Cordoba, Rosario, Tucuman, and Posadas - on the basis of the following criteria: (i) they were
economic and government centers at the national or regional level; (ii) the municipal governments were committed to
addressing environmental and sustainable transport issues; and (iii) they complied with the Federal regulations and
were entitled to prepare projects for the World Bank.

The grant design was closely interlinked with two other Bank urban transport operations: Buenos Aires Urban
Transport Project P039584, and the Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project P095485. As the ICR (p.6)
describes, the Buenos Aires urban transport project P039584 was expected to finance household transport surveys in
all participating cities, transport planning models and comprehensive transport plans. The GEF project would carry
out the required feasibility studies, finance project designs and some small works in cases in which designs were
concluded. And the metropolitan areas urban transport project P095485 would conclude designs, where needed, and
finance the remaining works.

Despite being a small operation (US$3.9 million), the project design was characterized by a high degree of complexity
and ambitious goals that mirrored longer-term outcomes. A serious shortcoming was that the implementation
arrangement that placed the project implementation unit (PIU) at the federal level and required every city to enter into
a specific agreement with the PIU caused a two- year delay in effectiveness (the agreements were the effectiveness
conditions) and required continuous coordination efforts. The grant was not prioritized by PIU for its small size, as the
unit was implementing in parallel two other large Bank urban transport operations. Also, placing reporting
accountability with the federal government and responsibility for data collection with the cities created challenges in
M&E.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To assist the Eligible Municipalities to : (a) reduce GHG emissions by increasing the use of less energy intensive
transport modes in cities ; and (b) induce policy changes in favor of sustainable transport projects .

* A split rating is used for assessment as the outcome indicators were modified (dropped). When the results framework was
modified, the disbursements prior to restructuring in 2012 constituted 13% (US$0.52 million) of the actual grant disbursement
(US$3.88 million).


(a) reduce GHG emissions by increasing the use of less energy intensive transport modes in cities .
Under original outcome indicators: Modest.
Under revised outcome indicators: Substantial.

Outputs

     A total 17.7 km of bikeways (11.8 km in Rosario and 5.9 km in Cordoba) were constructed surpassing the target
      of 6.3 km.
     In Rosario, the GEF program included the procurement of 480 public-use bicycles to complement the city’s bike
      sharing program launched in April 2015. The bike sharing system is expected to provide 4,000 new rides per day,
      which would affect the modal share towards the usage of public transport by 1%.
     The final design was completed in Posadas for 3 km of a BRT on Avenue Uruguay.
     The final design was adjusted in Rosario for 2.5 km BRT-type lanes for the north-south corridor project, with their
      own resources and guidance under the project. The civil works were under procurement at closure and funded
      under the Bank project P095485.

Outcome
  The construction of the bike path in the city of Rosario (on avenue 27 de Febrero) helped reduce 41.66 CO2
    equivalent tons, and on the Ovidio Lagos corridor the amount reduced was 58.45 CO2 equivalent tons, compared
    to the predicted emissions in the without- project scenario. On the Avellaneda corridor, the new bicycle lane
    provided reduced CO2 emissions by 65.22 equivalent tons after the completion of the civil works. Adding the
    three interventions, the amount saved is 165.32 CO2 equivalent tons in the year after construction, a decline of
    0.6% in comparison to the without-project scenario. The original target for the decrease of CO2 equivalent tons
    emitted by ground transport in the intervened corridors was 5% (the indicator was dropped at restructuring, as the
    related works were not supposed to be funded and carried out under the project).
  The target of 5% increase in the number of non-motorized transport (NMT) trips was surpassed. In particular, on
    the “27 de Febrero” corridor, the number of users went from 863 in 2011 to 1599 in 2014, representing an 85%
    increase. On the “Ovidio Lagos” corridor, the number of users went from 756 in 2011 to 964 in 2014, representing
    a 28% increase. On the “Avellaneda” corridor, users went from 847 in 2013 to 1267 in 2014, representing a 50%
    increase in one year. In Cordoba, while the survey methods were not comparable, the 2009 origin-destination
    survey (O-D) showed that 2.69% of people traveled by bike, but less than 0.5% of passengers used bike to go
    downtown. After the completion of the first bikeway improving the connection of the outer city with the central
    area, another type of household survey conducted in the city revealed that 6.1% of respondents traveled by bike.
  The ICR (p.13) reports that Rosario is moving forward with the construction of 9.5 km of BRT-type lanes on the
    North-South corridor. The civil works of the first section and the final design of the other two sections are being
    financed by PTUMA. The first section of 2.5km is currently under procurement and is scheduled to enter
    operation by the end of 2015 (the estimated budget of US$ 5 million).The Municipality of Cordoba constructed 5.3
    km of a pilot BRT-type project in Av. Sabatini, with an estimated cost of US$3.5 million using their own resources.
(b) Induce policy changes in favor of sustainable transport projects . Substantial*.

*We do not split the rating here as there was no change to this objective at the restructure . It remains substantial in both periods .

Outputs
  Participative workshops were organized on the development of master plans/ mobility plans in Posadas,
    Cordoba, Tucuman and Rosario.
  Training and capacity building events were organized for government officials from the four cities on sustainable
    transport, including conferences in Mexico and Rio de Janeiro, and the XVIII Latin American Congress of Urban
    and Public Transport in Rosario.
  Campaigns to promote NMT and sustainable transportation were carried out in Rosario and Cordoba. In Rosario,
    the “All in Bike” (Todos en Bici) campaign included the elaboration of diverse audiovisual and merchandizing
    materials, including an institutional video. Media campaigns were undertaken to promote NMT and materials
    developed were being used by the city. A new campaign, called “Plan your Trip” is to be launched in 2015, to
    promote the use of public transport in the city.
  The Monitoring and Information Center for Public Transport was established in Rosario to maximize the use of
    public transport, facilitating modal exchange and promoting the efficiency of public transportation.

Outcome

All four cities have developed master plans integrating environment and climate change with urban transport:
   (i) In 2010, Rosario elaborated an Integrated Mobility Plan for the city (PIM) under a participatory approach,
      including the establishment of a “mobility pact” with over 100 institutions, public and private actors and civil
      society representatives. An updated version was published in 2014.
   (ii) A diagnostic for the development of an Integrated Mobility Plan for the city of Cordoba was undertaken in
      2012.
   (iii) In Posadas, an Environmental Urban Plan was developed in 2012 based on the “Plan Estrategico Posadas
      2022” elaborated in 2008, containing a chapter on mobility, transportation and territorial integration, oriented
      towards the restructuring of the existing system of urban mobility.
   (iv) In 2012, Tucuman developed a Transit and Transport Plan for the city of San Miguel de Tucuman.

All four cities have sanctioned new policies and regulations that create incentives for a more efficient and sustainable
transport use:
   (1) Rosario: (i) Municipal Order 8864- Creation of segregated BRT type lanes; (ii) Municipal Order 9030-Creation
      of Public Bicycle System; (iii) Municipal Order 9145-Construction of underground parking; and (iv) Municipal
      Order 9238- Parking prohibition in central area of the city.
   (2) Tucuman: i) Municipal Decree 0957/SG/2008- Parking prohibition in central area; (ii) creation of pedestrian
      roads in central area of the city; (iii) establishment of public bicycle system; and (iv) proposed network of bicycle
      lanes.
   (3) Posadas: (i) Municipal Order 3333/13-Environmental Urban Plan; (ii) Municipal Order 3372/13-Urban plan for
      the city of Posadas; and (iii) development of a Control and Information Center for Public Transport in the city of
      Posadas.
   (4) Cordoba: (i) Municipal Order 12.076 – regulatory framework for the urban bus transport service; (ii) Municipal
      Order 12.146 - concession of the urban bus transport service; (iii) Municipal Order 11712/10- Provision of bike
      parking; and (iv) Municipal Order under revision-creation of Public Bicycle Plan.

5. Efficiency:

At appraisal, the methodology used to estimate the impact in terms of CO2 emission reductions was based on the
comparison between the aggregated measures proposed by each participating city and the results obtained in the
case study of Bogota over seven years, serving as a regional reference, to gauge the kind of changes that might be
expected from GEF interventions. The most significant direct impacts in terms of reduced GHG emissions was
expected to come through the implementation of BRT projects. As they are not constructed yet, an ex-post
incremental cost analysis cannot be done to compare against the appraisal scenario (ICR, Annex 3).

At closure, a bikeways emission analysis was conducted for the bicycle component in Rosario. The results for the
ex-ante evaluation performed by the Clean Air Institute (CAI) with this model showed the potential for reducing CO2
emissions with the construction of the bike path in Av. 27 de Febrero and Av. Ovidio Lagos, at approximately 240.8
tons/year. The ex-post analysis conducted after the completion of the civil works using actual figures from traffic
counts revealed that the construction of the bike paths on the avenue 27 de Febrero, the Ovidio Lagos corridor, and
on the Avellaneda corridor reduced 165.32 CO2 equivalent tons in one year after construction. The estimated savings
of the project considering the Social Values of Carbon per ton at US$ 30 were approximately US$ 5,000 for the first
year.
The cost per kilometer of bikepath was US$ 77,338 in Rosario, as compared to the average construction cost for a
bicycle lane of US$83,231 per km in the US. The calculation of the construction cost of the civil works divided by the
emission reduction shows that the cost effectiveness of the bike paths was US$ 5,510 per ton (US$ 911,040 divided
by 165 CO2 eq. tons), and similar to comparative projects in the US (ICR, p.9).

The project's efficiency was affected by weaknesses in the project design, delays in effectiveness, and procurement
issues that led to about a two- year delay in implementation.

Efficiency is assessed as modest.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated substantial, and that of design is modest. Given the Moderately Unsatisfactory
outcome rating under the original outcome indicators and Moderately Satisfactory outcome under the revised outcome
indicators, based on the disbursements prior and after project restructuring in July 2012 (US$0.52 million and
US$3.36 million), the weighted overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Several of the project activities were feasibility studies and designs of infrastructure interventions that are yet to be
undertaken and require financing and leveraging of funds, either through the GoA, at Federal or Municipal level or
Bank's projects (e.g., P095485). Funding is likely judging by a wide range of initiatives, regulations and policy
measures undertaken in support of sustainable urban transport in the participating cities. The ICR does not discuss
maintenance arrangements for the bikeways constructed under the project.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The project was conceived as part of the GEF Latin America STAQ Program that was intended to promote cross
coordination and cooperation between the cities, generating dialogue among the cities, joint participation in
conferences at a regional scale. The grant design built on prior Bank experience in urban transport operations
within the Latin American region and Argentina, inter-linking its activities with other two on-going Bank urban
transport projects in Argentina. The project preparation was characterized by a participatory approach, requiring
an active participation from the participating cities in defining the actual content of projects financed through the
GEF.

There were significant shortcomings in project design, in particular the implementation arrangements, that led to
delays (see section 3b above). Risk assessment was weak and did not identify such important issues affecting the
implementation as difficulties in coordination between the PIU and the beneficiary cities (particularly given the
participation of multiple cities and varied capacity) as well as implementation and governance risks affecting the
PIU that was managing several projects. Also, the project overestimated the ability of the Clean Air Institute (CAI)
to effectively coordinate and provide relevant M&E assistance to the country projects. The M&E design was
inadequate and had to be revised during implementation (see section 10 below).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory
b. Quality of supervision:

The supervision was carried out jointly for this project and the Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project
(P095485). The missions were bi-annual sharing the same technical team including procurement and safeguards
specialists. The Bank team adequately responded to the issues that arose during implementation, including
carrying out the forensic audit, establishing fiduciary action plans, and restructuring the project to improve the
M&E design. The project team helped the local government to develop a participatory strategy. The ICR (p.9) finds
though that the team could be more proactive in identifying additional resources to assist the cities in developing
robust baselines for M&E.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Government was initially slow in approving the grant (it took over 18 months) but later in the implementation it
was instrumental in restructuring the sector when the allegations in irregularities emerged in the procurement and
implementation of specific contracts financed by the Bank's Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project
(P095485), which shared the same PIU of the GEF Project. Through Decrees 874 and 875 in June 2012,
competencies related to transportation were transferred from the Ministry of Federal Planning and Public
Investment to the Ministry of Interior and Transport with subsequent creation of a unified central implementing unit
to handle all projects and programs with external financing. The new management emphasized on cleaning the
house and improving the management systems. It also prioritized moving the GEF procurement processes
forward, reviewing and completing contracts under implementation in an expeditious manner.

At the municipal level, the commitment towards the project varied among beneficiary cities. In general, the project
ownership and overall response capacity of municipal governments was low, although some cities, particularly
Rosario, showed considerable commitment towards the project. The other beneficiary cities justified their lack of
responsiveness to insufficient technical staff assigned to the project. In the city of Cordoba, rotation of technical
teams within the municipality over five times complicated the day-to-day operation.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was originally housed within the Secretariat of Transport, under the Ministry
of Federal Planning and Public Investment. The performance of this PIU was unsatisfactory due to lack of priority
to this project that resulted in lack of disbursements up till 2013. Due to allegations in irregularities in the
procurement and implementation of specific contracts financed by the Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project
(P095485), the agency was modified in 2013 through the Presidential Decree to become a Central Executing Unit
within the Ministry of Interior and Transport (see section 11b). This change in project management was critical in
achieving a turnover in project implementation and disbursements. The new team had extensive experience in
projects financed by international financial institutions, and staff profiles were aligned with project needs.
Additionally, the PIU was effective in coordinating initiatives, both technically and administratively, with the
respective counterparts at city level. In the last two years of project implementation, 15 of the 19 envisaged
projects were completed.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:
a. M&E Design:

The project results framework (PD, Annex 3) included such outcome indicators as decrease by 5% of CO2 equivalent
tons emitted by ground transport in intervened corridors and increase in the number of trips in public transportation
that largely mirrored longer-term outcomes, which were not to be reachable by project closure under the most
optimistic scenario. In particular, the grant was expected to finance only the detailed design of a mass transit corridor
in the city of Rosario but as an outcome target included expected emission reductions after this corridor would be
constructed and in operation. Overall, as noted by the ICR (p.9), the project outcomes were overly ambitious and not
in line with the scale of the project (US$3.9 million operation) or its time-frame.

The project monitoring was formally the responsibility of the PIU but the actual responsibility for data collection
(including baselines) and reporting project results remained at city level. The Clean Air Institute (CAI) was formally
responsible for developing the guidelines and methodologies for baseline assessments in GEF cities, as well as of
providing general support and guidance in terms on monitoring and evaluation.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The results indicators were revised to adjust them to the project's scope and scale during restructuring in 2012,
including dropping of the two outcome indicators mentioned above. There were difficulties in the implementation of
the M&E framework. Cities in most cases did not comply with their responsibility in the collection of baselines and
data, and the PIU could not enforce their compliance. Although some surveys and traffic counts were undertaken in
the cities, as is the case in Rosario, these were not conducted in a systematic manner throughout the four cities. Also,
technical support to be provided by the CAI did not materialize as expected.

c. M&E Utilization:
  Weak reporting on project performance prevented it from being efficiently utilized in the decision making process.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was a Category B project that triggered two safeguard policies: OP4.01 Environmental Assessment and OP 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement (PD, p.18). It was anticipated that the inclusion of small pilot investments such as bikeways
could have minor and localized negative environmental impacts. During appraisal, each of the participating cities
prepared an Environmental and Social Management Manual. A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared given
that the precise location of some works was not defined during appraisal. The ICR (p.10) reports that no issues were
encountered during implementation, and the project complied with the Bank’s procedural and policy requirements for
safeguards.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement: The procurement under this grant was affected by allegation in irregularities in the procurement and
implementation of specific contracts at the PIU, which were financed by the Bank's Metropolitan Areas Urban
Transport Project (P095485). The investigation was carried out by the Bank's Internal Vice Presidency (INT) in 2012,
leading to a freeze in the execution of all operations under the PIU for over one year. The forensic audit was
conducted on both the GEF grant and the Metropolitan Areas Urban Transport Project. The ICR (p.10) reports that the
Bank declared the ineligibility/ misprocurement of expenses in some cases under the other Bank project P095485 but
GEF processes or disbursements were not affected. The PIU and the Bank’s procurement and financial management
team agreed on a fiduciary action plan including: (i) the review of the organizational structure and set up of profiles for
the PIU’s fiduciary functions; (ii) the review and adjustment of operational procedures; and (iii) definition of a staff
training program. Other issues included problems in bidding for one of the key activities included under the grant (the
bike-sharing program in Rosario), which had to be dropped because offers presented during the bidding process were
double of the grant budget.

Financial management. The ICR (p.10) reports that financial management by the PIU was overall satisfactory. Staff
was qualified and had previous experience in the implementation of the Bank financed projects, in particular the
Buenos Aires Urban Transport Project P039584. The audit reports of the project were submitted on time and
considered acceptable to the Bank.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately          IEG agrees with a moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Satisfactory        unsatisfactory rating for Quality at
                                                                                Entry. Since the overall outcome is
                                                                                rated moderately satisfactory, the
                                                                                overall Bank performance is rated
                                                                                moderately satisfactory as per
                                                                                OPCS/IEG harmonized guidelines.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately          IEG agrees with a moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Satisfactory        unsatisfactory rating for Government
                                                                                Performance. Since the overall
                                                                                outcome is rated moderately
                                                                                satisfactory, the overall Borrower
                                                                                performance is rated moderately
                                                                                satisfactory as per OPCS/IEG
                                                                                harmonized guidelines.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR identified the following three lessons, which are presented here with slight modifications:

    The value of associating GEF operations to larger urban transportation projects needs to be evaluated on a
     case-by-case basis. Although linking GEF Projects to larger Bank operations has become common practice, in
     order to leverage funds and save supervision and coordination costs, this link could also result in slower
     implementation of GEF projects (given their relative priority vis-à-vis the larger operation at Government level),
     and the setting of overly ambitious objectives which go beyond the scale and time-frame of the GEF Project.

    The selection of implementation arrangements under GEF Projects raises political economy questions that
     need to be thoroughly analyzed during appraisal . In the case of this GEF grant, the option of placing
     implementation at city-level was discussed during project preparation, however, a decision was taken between
     the Federal Government and the Bank to keep implementation centralized, given formal lending requirements
     and existing local capacity. This added complexity and in many cases caused delays in project execution.

    Grants, such as GEF operations , should be used as “catalyst financing” as they provide an important vehicle
     in moving forward innovative issues . Although overall such funding tends to be limited, the nature of this
    funding increases positive public acceptance and receptivity to new, cutting-edge initiatives.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is concise and outcome- oriented. The ICR offers a candid analysis of the project design and provides good
detail in discussion of the project preparation and implementation experience. Lessons are useful and evidence-
based. The ICR team generated a comprehensive set of evidence and data. The report also provides a detailed CO2
reduction evaluation analysis of the bikeways construction under the project. A few minor issues are the aggregation
of the ratings for the Bank and Borrower performance, and inclusion of the total costs for each component in Annex 1
(the costs were subsequently received from the project team). The ICR should have also discussed maintenance
arrangements for the assets created under the project.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
