Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 16315-NIIR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 21,1997
Transport Group 2
Infrastructure Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 21, 1997)
Currency Unit        =        CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                CFAF590
CFAF 1 million       =                US$1,695
FISCAL YEAR
January 01 -- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASECNA    =  Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Adrienne en Afrique et a Madagascar
(Air Navigation Safety Agency for Africa and Madagascar)
CAS         =  Country Assistance Strategy
CNUT        =  Conseil National des Utilisateurs des Transports (Shippers' Council)
CFD         =  Caisse Fran,aise de Developpement (French Development Agency)
CNEDD       =  Conseil National de l'Environnement pour un Developpement Durable
(National Council of Environment for a Sustainable Development)
COMANI   =  Compagnie Maritime du Niger (National Shipping Line)
DE          =  Direction de 1'Environnement (Department of Environment)
DLNTP/B    =  Laboratoire des Travaux Public et du Batiment (Public Works Laboratory)
DMTP        =  Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics (Public Works Equipment Department)
ERR         =  Economic Rate of Return
EU          =  European Union
FAC         =  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Fund)
GDP         =  Gross Domestic Product
ICB         =  International Competitive Bidding,
ICR         =  Implementation Completion Report
IDA         =  International Development Association
MEI         =  Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure
MHE         =  Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment
MT          =  Ministry of Transport
NBC         =  National Bureau of Coordination
NCB         =  National Competitive Bidding
NGO         =  Non-Governmental Organization
OCBN        =  Organisation Commune Benin-Niger (Joint Organization Benin-Niger)
PIP         =  Public Investment Program
SNTN        =  Socidte Nationale de Transports du Niger (National Road Transport Company)
STRN        =  Syndicat des Transporteurs Routiers du Niger (Road Transport Union)
TSP         =  Transport Sector Project
Vice President:        Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:      Theodore Ahlers, AFC 13
Technical Manager:     Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard, AFTT2
Task Team Leader:      Jean Noel Guillossou, AFTT2



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Niger
Guarantor:           Not Applicable
Implementing Agencies: Prime Ministry
Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure
Ministry of Transport
Beneficiaries:        Not Applicable
Poverty:              Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount:        SDR 20.3 million (US$28.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Commitment Charge:  Standard
Onlending Terms:     Not Applicable
Financing Plan:       See para. 34
Net Present Value:    Earth Road Component: CFAF 27.6 billion discounted at 12 percent
(see paras. 65 and 66)
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 16315-NIR
Maps:                IBRD No. 28605
Project I.D.:         35608






REPUBLIC OF NIGER
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and  Project Summary .............................................................i
1. BACKGROUND                                        ............................................................. 1
A.   Country Background .............................................................1
B.   Transport Sector Background .............................................................2
C.   Previous Bank Experience and Lessons Learned ....................................................... 10
D.   Project Rationale ............................................................                                          10
2. THE PROJECT ............................................................                                                             11
A.   Project Objectives ............................................................11 
B.   Project Description .1............................................................ 1
C.   Project Cost and Financing ............................................................                                12
D.   Project Implementation ............................................................                                     13
E.   Procurement ............................................................                                                14
F.   Disbursement ............................................................                                              17
G.   Accounting and Auditing ............................................................                                   18
H.   Reporting and Monitoring ............................................................                                  19
I.    Environmental Aspects ............................................................                                    20
J.    Benefits ............................................................                                                 22
K. Risks ............................................................                                                       24
3. AGREEMENTS REACHED, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................. 27
This report is based on the findings of two preappraisal missions and one appraisal mission
which visited Niger in October and December, 1996 and April 1997. The project team consisted
of Mmes./Messrs. Jean-Noel Guillossou (Task Team Leader, Sr. Transport Economist, AFTT2);
Andreas Schliessler (Transport Economist, AFTT2); Abdellatif Baltagi (Highway Engineer,
Consultant); Inger Bertilsson (Environment Specialist, Consultant); and Thierry Du Crest
(Research Assistant, AFTT2). Mr. Colin Gannon (TWUTD) is Peer Reviewer. Ms. Maryvonne
Plessis-Fraissard (AFTT2) is Technical Manager. Mr. Theodore Ahlers (AFC13) is Country
Director. Ms. Jocelyne do Sacramento (AFTT2) provided technical support.



ANNEXES
I   Project Design Summary ..................................................                                              29
2     Letter of Sector Policy ..................................................                                          33
3   Road Maintenance Budget ..................................................                                            39
4     Public Investment Program  ..................................................                                       43
5     Detailed Project Costs ..................................................                                           44
6     Project Implementation Schedule ..................................................                                  47
7     Key Performance Indicators ..................................................                                        56
8   Supervision Plan ..................................................                                                   58
9   Summary Environmental Assessment of Earth Road Regraveling Works ................ 60
10 Summary Environmental Impact Assessment of the Road Gaya-Margou-Ounditan.63
11 Summary Environmental Assessment of the Rural Road Sector .66
12 Summary Environmental Mitigation Plan .69
13 Economic Analysis .70
14 Documents Available in the Project File .74
MAPS
IBRD No 28605



REPUBLIC OF NIGER
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.BACKGROUND
A.COUNTRYBACKGROUND
1.    Niger is a large landlocked country covering an area of 1.27 million Km2, and is 600 km
away from the closest seashore. The population estimated at 8.7 million in 1994-- about half of
which is less than 15 years old--is growing at about 3.3 percent a year which is above the average
for Sub-Saharan Africa. Social indicators are among the lowest in the Sahelian countries. The
human resource base is weak, with an adult literacy rate of only 14 percent (9 percent among
women) and a primary school enrollment ratio of less than 30 percent. Life expectancy at birth is
47 years, one of the lowest on the continent, and infant and child mortality rates are high. The
natural resource base is fragile due to low and irregular rainfall and low and declining soil
fertility. As a result, Niger's fast growing population is becoming one of the poorest in the
world. Per capita gross domestic product (GDP) has declined by more than 52 percent since
1980, reaching US$176 in 1994. Niger has an open economy, with imports and exports
exceeding 30 percent of GDP. Strong trade links exist with Nigeria, which exerts considerable
economic influence through long-standing trading and cultural bonds.
2.    Besides the weak natural resource base, Niger faces additional constraints in the form of
high factor costs, overdependence on uranium, a relatively inefficient public sector and a small
modem private sector. The fall of uranium prices in 1981 has resulted in severe financial
imbalances and triggered a long-term economic decline. The devaluation of the CFA franc in
January 1994 has given Niger an opportunity to resume its economic growth. Political instability,
however, has prevented the country from taking full advantage of the devaluation. Eventually,
the Government reached agreement with the International Monetary Fund on an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility program in June 1996. IDA approved a one-tranche adjustment
credit on March 20, 1997.
3.    Poverty remains critical in Niger. 63 percent of Nigeriens (5.3 million people) earn
incomes below the poverty threshold defined by the Government. About 34 percent (2.8 million
people) are classified as extremely poor. Urban/rural differentials are stark, with average rural
incomes being half those in urban areas. The participatory poverty assessment carried out in
1996 (Report no. 15344-NIR, June 28, 1996) pictures vividly poverty in Niger:



2                                     Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
(a)   Urban areas: Poverty is hunger. Ownership of goods is a form of safety net rather
than money. Being employed is what matters. Women earn revenues through
petty trade, mostly the sale of cooked food. They take care of the family when
men lose their jobs. Squatting neglected areas saves the cost of renting houses.
Recently, the number of beggars has increased in Niamey, and "traditional"
beggars have been joined by large numbers of younger people.
(b)   Rural areas: Access to land is a major constraint because of the dearth of fertile
land and competition exists among groups to exploit natural resources.
Households exchange young children: families with many children send older
children to help families who do not have enough labor force and receive younger
children. Diversification of income sources is a necessary strategy because of the
climatic risks, but the poor have little possibilities available. Migration is a
survival strategy, the poor migrate to look for food and work within Niger or to
neighboring countries. Remittances contribute to the income of those in the
household who have stayed in their villages. During the dry season, Niamey's
population is estimated to increase by 100,000 dwellers.
4.    Putting the country back onto a development path requires the pursuit of the reform
agenda, including private sector development and restructuring of the public expenditures to
improve basic education and health services coverage. Government's commitment and action on
key reforms, the return to political stability and the resumption of donor assistance are critical for
the reforTn program. Sustained success depends on continued fiscal discipline and the increase of
investments to rekindle growth, especially in satisfying the large needs in social infrastructure.
To pursue its reform agenda, Niger critically needs to regain donors' confidence through an
effective transition to democracy. External aid is progressively resuming after several important
donors suspended budgetary aid in reaction to the military takeover in late January 1996. A
Presidential election was held in July 1996 and legislative elections in November 24, 1996.
B. TRANSPORT SECTOR BACKGROUND
5.    The following paragraphs describe the transport sector and identify the most important
issues. Government actions and decisions listed in the paragraphs are taken from the Letter of
Sector Policy prepared by the Government for the 1998-2000 period (Annex 2). The Letter was
signed by the Government before Board presentation.
6.    Road Maintenance. The Government is committed to improve highway management and
road transport perfornance to promote Niger's economic competitiveness. The interurban road
network consists of 14,000 km of roads, including 3,500 km of paved roads. The urban road
network is estimated to be 840 km long, of which 25 percent is paved. Road maintenance
performance has deteriorated during the past five years, mostly because of a lack of incentives,
salary arrears, low availability of equipment (about 60 per cent for heavy equipment), insufficient
financing, and cumbersome procedures. Because of lack of resources, the Government has
concentrated its maintenance effort on a priority network of about 7,656 km. About 55 percent of
paved roads and 44 percent of earth roads are in poor condition. Most roads not recently built or



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                     3
maintained with external financing are now 9- to 1 0-years old, and periodic maintenance is
crucial now to preserve road assets and prevent costly rehabilitation in the future.
7.    The sector is managed by the Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure (MEI). The
Public Works Department (DTP) has a staff of about 1,400 employees. MEI does not have a
clear procedure to establish road maintenance and rehabilitation programs. A road data bank was
set up under the Transport Sector Project (TSP, Cr. 1706-NIR closed on June 30, 1993). The
data bank was maintained as long as the TSP was effective, but data have not been regularly
collected since project completion. However, MEI's staff was trained to operate the data bank
which was used for the preparation and the economic analysis of the proposed Project, after more
recent data on road conditions were collected. The strategy which provides the basis for
establishing road maintenance programs by using the road data bank needs to be updated by
changing working methods and works standards and taking into account budget constraints, as
well as lessons learned from the experience of road maintenance in Niger during the past ten
years. The new strategy is expected to be available by December 1998, based on terms of
reference available in the project files. The objective is to define several economically-justified
maintenance scenarios based on different sets of maintenance standards and chose the scenario
which best fits within the resources available. The definition of the new strategy will give the
opportunity to replace the existing data bank developed ten years ago with a software which is no
longer on the market. The project will also purchase equipment to help MEI to collect data and
monitor road conditions.
8.    Lack of resources for road maintenance hampers the sustainability of investments in the
highway sector. The 1997 operating budget, excluding salaries of civil servants in DTP,
amounted to CFAF 3.1 billion (Annex 3). The resources budgeted are insufficient to maintain the
priority network. The necessary budget, excluding salaries, is estimated at CFAF 4 billion
(Annex 3) for only routine maintenance (CFAF 3 billion), some emergency operations (CFAF
775 million) and the operating costs of the Public Works Department (CFAF 240 million). The
Government has decided to increase the 1998 budget by 18 percent to CFAF 3.7 billion in a
effort to fill the gap between resources available and those required. However, resources will still
lack for periodic maintenance of both the paved and unpaved networks. The present project is
expected to cover part of the deficit for the unpaved roads, but there are no immediate prospects
of new resources for the paved roads, other than those under an African Development Bank
project suspended since 1994, which would cover 136 km of roads. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to prepare annual budgets for road maintenance in consultation with IDA.
9.    A 1991 study shows that maintenance costs were not covered by tax revenues generated
by the transport sector. The main reason is the use of smuggled gasoline from Nigeria, which
results in loss of taxes collected from petroleum products. The following table details costs and
revenues per category of transport. Maintenance costs included costs for routine maintenance
estimated at that time at CFAF 2.7 billion, costs for periodic maintenance estimated at CFAF 4.9
billion and administration costs estimated at CFAF 795 million. Since 1991, road tolls have been
introduced to improve cost recovery, but revenues have been uneven: about CFAF 300 million,
one third of expected revenues, until 1995; and CFAF 600 million in 1996. Even fully recovered,



4                                     Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
revenues from road tolls would not balance maintenance costs and revenues from the transport
sector.
Table 1: Recovery of road maintenance costs from road transport taxation
(1991 - CFAF million)
Passenger transport      Freight transport      Total
Private     Public      Trucks      Trailers
Maintenance costs    2,012       2,032        1,620       2,715       8,379
Revenues from        2,256       1,377        367         615         4,615
specific taxation
Balance               244         -655       -1,253      -2,100       -3,764
10.   To sustain road maintenance financing, the Government intends to create a Road
Maintenance Fund according to the four following principles: (a) involvement of road users in its
management; (b) carrying out by external independent auditors of technical and financial audits
of road maintenance programs financed by the Fund; (c) commercial management of the Fund;
and (d) to the extent possible, resources collected from road users. The Government's decision in
March 1997 to create, as a transitory period before the Road Fund, a Road Maintenance Account
with resources allocated from the Treasury failed to achieve its objective as the Government was
unable to allocate resources to the account. This failure emphasizes the need to create the Road
Fund according to the four principles above. In addition to securing resources, the Fund will
accelerate payment to contractors, who have difficulty to survive the long payment delays which
are typical of the normal procedure through the Treasury. It will also irnprove transparency in the
management of public resources. The project will finance annual financial audits of the Road
Fund and annual technical audits of the road maintenance program executed with Government
budget's financing. Terms of reference for the technical audits are in the project files. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to implement before January 1, 1999, a mechanism to
finance road maintenance based on the four principles above. The type of user charges and their
collection process will be defined in a study included in the project. The study will consider a
revision of the road tolls system, which is a potential source of revenues for the Fund. Terms of
reference are in the project files. The study will also consider the possibility of using road
network management contracts, for some specific roads, under which a private operator would
receive the right to collect tolls and in turn be responsible to maintain roads to established
standards.
I11    To improve efficiency, the Government has decided to progressively disengage from road
maintenance execution and use civil works contractors instead. MEI should focus on planning,
programming, budgeting and supervision of works. Presently, routine maintenance is still
carried out by force account. Periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and some emergency
interventions are contracted out. The Government has agreed that, by 2000, all routine
maintenance will be contracted out except in areas under army control. In 1997, in addition to
operating expenditures used for emergency operations and usually carried out by local
contractors, part of the Government's budget has already been used for routine maintenance
operations by local contractors. DTP will be restructured to reflect these changes before January



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                     5
1, 1999. The terms of reference of the study to define the new structure for DTP are in the project
files. Training activities will be identified as part of the study. The project will also provide
resources for short-term missions of experts to assist DTP in managing the implementation of the
new framework for road maintenance.
12.   To improve efficiency of public works equipment rental activities, the Government has
agreed to transform its equipment pool into a privately managed equipment rental company. The
new statute should be implemented before January 1, 1999. Force account brigades use public
works equipment managed by a department of MEI (Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics -
DMTP), which has 670 employees and maintains 885 pieces of equipment and vehicles. DMTP's
performance has been low for three reasons: (a) difficulties to access to funds budgeted for the
renewal of equipment; (b) cumbersome administrative procedures which prevent to purchase
spare parts when required; and (c) lack of incentives for staff. DMTP's budget is a separate
budget in the Government's budget. It amounted to CFAF 3.1 billion in 1997 (Annex 3). About
CFAF 1.5 billion were revenues from equipment rental to the Department of Public Works and
corresponding expenditures were almost entirely disbursed. CFAF 1.3 billion were budgeted for
the renewal of equipment but almost none of these resources were used. Terms of reference of
the financial adviser who will assist the Government in the establishment of the new privately
managed equipment rental company are in the project files. The project will also finance
rehabilitation of some equipment to facilitate the start of the new company. The technical
expertise to appraise rehabilitation requirements and prepare bidding documents will be provided
under the contract of the fmancial adviser.
13.   The Road Laboratory should change its statute in order to become autonomous and
fmancially viable. The Road Laboratory is a department of MEI, with 70 employees. It is
responsible for the geotechnical supervision of road works. The Road Laboratory uses a Special
Account in the Government's budget. Although the Special Account was created to facilitate the
Laboratory's operations, the revenues generated by supervising road works on external financing
and for services rendered to private entrepreneurs, are transferred to the Treasury, which keeps
them for other purposes. Then, the resources cannot be used by the Laboratory to finance its
operating costs and renew its equipment. The Laboratory's 1997 budget amounted to CFAF 109
million, 91 percent being for salaries. The Laboratory's statute should be changed before January
1, 1999. Terms of reference to define the new structure are in the project files.
14.   Rural Roads. Development of the rural road network has been unsustainable due to lack
of funds for its maintenance. The network is 1,250 km long, mostly entirely built with IDA
financing under the Feeder Road Project (Cr. 886-NIR, closed on June 30, 1987) and the
Transport Sector Project (TSP, Cr. 1706-NIR, closed on June 30, 1993). Rural roads were built
by force account with high standards similar to those on the primary network, although
supporting much less traffic. About 1,500 km of new roads were identified on the basis of their
economic justification during the preparation of a new feeder road project later canceled.
15.   There is a high demand for the construction of new roads as demonstrated by several
examples where population have contributed in cash to finance force account brigades to build
new roads or rehabilitate existing roads. The Government is attentive to this demand and is



6                                        Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
seeking financing to extend the rural road network in areas which lack access. However, it is also
conscious that resources being insufficient to maintain the existing network, a new strategy has
to be defined to make investments in the rural road network sustainable. As part of the
Government's decentralization policy, responsibility for the maintenance of the tertiary network
which includes rural roads would be given to local governments. Although the Ministry of
Equipment and Infrastructure has prepared a draft decree in this direction, the decree cannot be
implemented as long as the overall framework for decentralization is not put in place. The
Government has requested to include in the project a rural component with the objective of
defining a new strategy aiming at sustaining maintenance of rural roads. Implementation of the
strategy would be tested through a pilot operation included in the project. The pilot operation
would cover about 150 km of rural roads. Terms of reference of the consultant which will assist
the Government in the definition of the new strategy in consultation with beneficiaries and the
preparation of the pilot operation to validate the strategy are in the project files.
16.   Road Transport. Niger is heavily dependent on road transport, both for its domestic
freight and passenger movements, and for cross-border traffic. The latter consists of formal and
informal (and unrecorded) trade flows with neighboring countries (mostly Benin, Togo and
Nigeria but also Burkina, Ghana and C6te d'Ivoire), and transit transport of maritime imports and
exports. The following table summarizes the 1995 and 1996 statistical data on regional and
international cargo flows to and from Niger (by transport corridor). However, actual cargo flows
are higher, as there is much unrecorded trade with some neighboring countries, especially with
Nigeria.
Table 2: 1995 Regional and international cargo flows (tons)
1995                         1996
Country       Regional  Maritime transit  Total cross-    Total cross-
traffic     traffic      border traffic   border traffic
Benin route   13,000        178,000        191,000        172,772
Togo/Burkina n.a.            n.a.          78,000         113,507
Nigeria      46,000          0             46,000         49,809
Ghana        35,000          0             35,000         36,296
C6te d'Ivoire  40,000        0             35.000.        44,006
n.a.: not available. The split between regional and maritime transit traffic in the
Togo/Burkina corridor is not known.
17.   The Government has little intervention in the sector as a result of measures taken to
liberalize the sector. Price regulation was abolished in 1994 except for the transport of petroleum
products. Access to the industry is unrestricted. In 1996, the Government abolished the
monopoly granted to the national road transport company (Societe Nationale des Transports du
Niger, SNTN) to transport the freight of mining companies. SNTN is being restructured with
interurban transport activities transferred to a private company created in 1994, and urban
transport activities transferred to a company created in December 1996 and jointly owned by
Niamey's municipality, the State and private investors. SNTN itself will remain as a semi-private
freight transport company jointly owned by the State and a foreign private freightforwarder.
Completion of SNTN's restructuring has been delayed because of lack of financing for severance



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                      7
payment of redundant staff, but is expected before end of March 1998, with the assistance of
external financing.
18.   Despite these efforts, high transport costs are a major constraint to Niger's development
due to restrictive practices by the road transport industry. Independent from the Government, the
road transport union (Syndicat des Transporteurs Routiers du Niger, STRN) has established a
system to allocate among operators public domestic passenger traffic, and also international
freight in the Benin and Togo corridors. This has several negative effects on the economy: (a)
tariffs set by STRN are two-third above those practiced by Beninese truckers, which cannot be
explained only because Niger is a landlocked country; (b) the system prevents contractual
relationships between shippers and truck owners; (c) implementation of the system is distorted in
favor of large fleet owners; (d) although tariffs are high, the profitability of the activity remains
low as the traffic is shared among numerous operators which do not carry out enough trips to
make the activity profitable. For high-value cargo, shippers may use SNTN who charges higher
tariffs and provides a better quality of service. This is possible on all routes, including those
international corridors which are subject to the allocation system enforced by STRN (Benin and
Togo corridors). On domestic routes and other international corridors, shippers can also use the
service of a few other higher-quality operators.
19.   Freight transport services are provided by about 700 operators. The vehicle fleet consists
of about 1,300 trailers with a 25-ton payload, 400 smaller trucks, most of them very old, which
are mainly used for occasional domestic transport of low-value cargo. About 5 operators own
fleets between 50 and 100 trucks. SNTN owns more than 300 trucks. Many truck operators are
also traders and shift between transport and trade according to market conditions. Only SNTN
and a few other operators are formal transport companies. The large majority of operators is
informal and mostly of a low educational background. They do not operate out of established
premises, do not have vehicle servicing and repair workshops, and also do not have a clear notion
of vehicle operating costs. For the past ten years, almost all newly registered trucks have been
second-hand vehicles which are between 8- and 12-year old. The cost of these vehicles is about
10 percent of a new unit. This results of the low profitability of the activity, because of which
operators do not have enough resources to invest in new costly vehicles and prefer to buy
imported second-hand vehicles instead. However, despite the high average age of the fleet, there
are few complaints about the quality of transport services. A sign of confidence in the services
provided is the readiness of insurance companies to cover the risks of cargo loss or damage
during road transport, at a reasonable rate.
20.   The allocation system is also applied to passenger transport and negatively affects the
safety and comfort of passengers. Passengers are not allowed to choose between buses in fair or
poor condition. Interurban passenger transport is provided by about 900 individual operators,
most of which own one or two vehicles. The fleet consists of some 550 taxis, about 1,000
minibuses with a capacity between 17 and 22 passengers, and about 150 larger buses. Cars which
operate on international routes are particularly in poor condition. SNTN operates large buses and
is the single big operator. Characteristics of operators are similar to those of freight transport
operators described above.



8                                     Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
21.   When road tolls being constructed in Benin on the road between Cotonou and Parakou
are in service, road freight services will be authorized and the monopoly granted to the joint
Benin-Niger institution (Organisation Commune Benin-Niger, OCBN), for transit traffic on the
Benin-Niger corridor, will disappear. Construction of road tolls has started but completion
expected in December 1996 has been delayed and is now expected before the end of 1997. The
operator of the road tolls has already been selected. OCBN operates the Beninese railway from
Cotonou to Parakou and contracts out road transport from Parakou to Niger to a pool of truckers.
The contracting procedure and the monopoly facilitate the freight allocation system. In addition
to freight traffic, the railway carries a substantial volume of passengers. Passenger traffic is most
likely to be subsidized by freight traffic, though this cannot be substantiated because of the poor
accounting practices in OCBN. Thus, Niger would bear, through rail freight tariffs, a portion of
the subsidy to the transport of mainly Beninese passengers on the railway. Because privatization
of OCBN is supported by the Nigerien Government, but not fully by the Beninese Government,
the Nigerien Government does not have full autonomy in the decision and no timetable has been
agreed yet. A joint meeting between the Beninese and Nigerien Governments and donors is
envisaged in 1998 to support the decision process regarding the privatization of OCBN.
22.   The Government is committed to eliminate the stranglehold of the road haulage cartel and
discourage the use of the allocation system. It intends, with the project's assistance, to sensitize
the road transport industry to the issues described above and launch discussions with STRN to
replace the bus allocation system by schedules, which would let passengers decide on the vehicle
they prefer to take. Among the sensitization activities, will be presented the link between poverty
and transport, which will be studied as part of the project activities. The Government, with the
project's assistance, will improve technical control of vehicles to remove those which are in the
poorest condition. Some of these vehicles remain in use only to capture a larger share of the
freight through the allocation system although they do not actually transport this freight. Terms
of reference for the improvement of technical control of vehicles are in the project files.
Disappearance of OCBN's monopoly and the rehabilitation of the road between Togo and Niger
included in the IDA's Transport Sector Project in Togo approved by the Board in early FY98
will increase competition and are expected to result in the disappearance of the freight allocation
system.
23.  In 1990, the Government prepared a plan of action to improve road safety. However, the
cost of the plan estimated at about US$4 million was out of proportion with the Government's
capacity to finance it. Because the Departmnent of Land Transport (DTT) in the Ministry of
Transport does not collect data on road accidents, the only information on accidents date from
1990. That year, about 500 people had been killed, 1,000 people had suffered heavy injuries and
3,000 people light injuries. Road accidents had been estimated to cost about CFAF 2 billion to
the economy. DTT's capacity needs to be strengthened to be able to analyze and use efficiently
information on accidents. The institutional framework needs to be revised to improve
collaboration between public and private institutions involved in the sector. Terms of reference
for the preparation of the plan are in the project files.
24.   Maritime Transport. The application of the 40-40-20 rule (UNCTAD Code of Conduct)
for cargo sharing is an additional burden on international transport. The rule is administered by



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                     9
the Shippers' Council (Conseil Nigerien des Utilisateurs des Transports, CNUT), which has 48
employees. The 40-40-20 rule now prevents the reduction of maritime freight rates at a time
when those are decreasing throughout the rest of the world. The rule has also failed to promote
the development of national shipping lines in Africa, which was one of its objectives. Besides,
the enforcement and administration of the rule adds an average of US$3 per ton to transport and
transit costs, which is partly to cover CNUT's operating costs. Maritime traffic allocated to the
Nigerien shipping line (Compagnie maritime du Niger, COMANI, a Non-Vessel Operating
Common Carrier) is reassigned to other shipping lines, which in turn grant discounts to
COMANI. The Government has decided to liberalize maritime transport by June 1998 giving
shippers the freedom to chose their shipping lines for maritime transport. The CNUT is being
restructured and its role redefined. The project will provide support to the creation of a National
Observatory of Transport in which the CNUT would participate with private sector stakeholders.
CNUT's services should be remunerated on the basis of their costs under commercial contracts.
25.   Civil Aviation. The Government is negotiating with ASECNA, the Air Safety Agency for
Africa and Madagascar, to transfer airport management to the Agency. Nigerien airports are
currently managed by ANAC, the public Civil Aviation Agency. The Agency has 334 staff, 100
above what is required. The Department of Civil Aviation in the Ministry of Transport regulates
the sector. The main airport is Niamey with about 130,000 annual passengers, mostly
international. ASECNA is currently responsible for air traffic control. Although reliable
information is unavailable, financial statements for Niamey's airport would be expected to be
balanced. Because of a low level of traffic, those for secondary airports would show a deficit.
Cross-subsidization between airports would be unacceptable if the amount of the cross-subsidy is
too high, because it would make Niamey's airport unattractive especially for tourism.
26.   Highway Investment and Maintenance Program. The Program for the 1998-2000 period
(see Table 3) totals about CFAF81 billion distributed into CFAF70 billion for investrnent and
CFAFl  billion for maintenance. The Government contribution is estimated at about CFAF14
billion or 17 percent.
Table 3: 1998-2000 Highway Investment and Maintenance Program (CFAF billion)
1998        1999        2000        Total
Maintenance program      3.7         3.8         3.8         11.3
Investment program      15.4        31.8         22.4        69.6
Total                   19.1        35.6         26.2        80.9
With the proposed project, the Government plans to include 12 highway projects in the
1998-2000 Public Investment Program (PIP) (Annex 4) which will be submitted to the National
Assembly's approval at the end of 1997. The IDA project represents 21 percent of the investment
program. The PIP for the highway sector represents 21 percent of the overall PIP for the 1998-
2000 period, up from 15.6 percent in 1997. For 1998 only, this percentage amounts to 15 percent.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that annual PIPs will be prepared in consultation
with IDA.



10                                     Niger - Transport Inftastructure Rehabilitation Project
C. PREvious BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
27.   The experience under the Transport Sector Project (TSP) calls for a strong consensus
between the Borrower and donors on objectives for any new project in the sector. This consensus
was reached with the new Government which came on power early 1996. The TSP's
Implementation Completion Report (PCR, Report No. 13773, December 9, 1994) also
recommends to establish a road maintenance policy based on economic criteria, to strengthen
road management capacities and to reactivate road management tools, all activities which are
included in the proposed project. The PCR for the Feeder Roads Project (Report No. 7739, April
28, 1989) emphasizes the need to address lack of funds for rural road maintenance, which
hampered the Project's sustainability.
28.   A review of the IDA portfolio was held with Nigerien and IDA project managers in May
1997 to discuss generic issues and provide recommendations. Four themes were identified: (a)
the project's environment, the conditions for success and the participation of beneficiaries; (b)
programming of project's activities, monitoring and assessment of outcome; (c) project
management; and (d) project's institutional framework. Recommendations were related to:
(a)   on the Government' side: (i) define sector strategies; (ii) include counterpart funds
in the quarterly cash-flow management at the Treasury; (iii) strengthen the local
capacity in the ministries for planning, monitoring, evaluation and reporting; (iv)
revise the national procurement code and identify obstacles hamnpering the
procurement process; and (v) avoid project specific conditions for effectiveness;
(b)   on IDA's side: (i) strengthen the role of the Resident Mission, especially for
procurement; and (ii) revise the amounts in the Special Accounts.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
29.   The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed by the Board on November 11, 1997. In a context where reduction of poverty, although
an overarching objective, is unlikely to be achievable in the medium term, IDA's assistance
would focus on three core areas with the following broad objectives:
Core area of IDA assistance              Broad objective
Human capital development                Expand the coverage of basic education and health
services
Improved management of water             Increase access to safe drinking water and promote
sustainable water management in agriculture
Promotion of open economic policies and regional  Foster a favorable business climate, including
linkages                                 further development of links with Nigeria
30.   The proposed project will be part of the third area of IDA assistance. It will support state
divestiture and removal of regulatory bottlenecks in the transport sector while contributing to
providing and maintaining basic road infrastructure. The project will also contribute to mitigate
the impact of an harsh environment on the poor especially through the rural road component of



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                  11
the project as poverty is critical in rural areas and evidence suggests that poverty is growing in
Niger. The project will help develop a strategy for rural road maintenance to sustain the
development of the rural road network. Also, although improvement of road maintenance
efficiency has not a direct impact on poverty reduction, it will prevent an increase in poverty
which would result of high transport costs caused by roads in poor condition due to lack of
maintenance.
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OWECTIVES
31.   The development objectives are to improve the condition of the road network and the
efficiency of road maintenance execution.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
32.   The project includes six components:
(a)   Earth roads: This component includes the regraveling of 1,060 km of earth roads;
detailed engineering studies and preparation of bidding documents; site-specific
environmental impact assessments and preparation and implementation of
environmental mitigation plans for works included in the project; and supervision
of works execution.
(b)   Rural roads: This component includes the definition of a strategy involving
beneficiaries in rural road management; the preparation of a pilot operation and
the coordination and monitoring of its implementation; sensitization activities;
detailed engineering studies and preparation of bidding documents; site-specific
environmental impact assessments and preparation and implementation of
environmental mitigation plans; execution of civil works on about 150 km of rural
roads; and supervision of works.
(c)   Road maintenance administration and management: This component includes:
support to Government's divestiture of public works equipment rental activities;
support to the Road Laboratory's restructuring; support to the Public Works
Department's restructuring; support to improve road maintenance programming
procedures, monitor road conditions and contract out road maintenance; training
to strengthen the Public Works Department's capacity in road maintenance
programming, procurement and works supervision; implementation of a
computerized system and procedures to manage the Road Fund; technical audits
of annual road maintenance programs; financial audits of the Road Fund; study
for the creation of a Road Fund; road maintenance strategy study; training in
environmental considerations of staff in the environmental unit of the Public
Works Departmnent and incremental operating costs of the unit; and equipment.



12                                   Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
(d)   Road transport: This component includes: technical advisory services for the
implementation of a road safety plan; improvement of vehicle technical control of
vehicles; and revision of the regulatory framework to improve protection of road
assets, including axle load limitation; a study of the links between transport and
poverty; sensitization activities aimed at the road transport industry; support to the
creation of the National Observatory for Transport (technical advisory services,
training equipment); feasibility study of a container terminal; definition of a
training strategy for the transport sector; development of an investment plan for
river ports; and computerization of vehicle certification;
(e)   Environment: In addition to the activities described above which are road
maintenance specific, the project includes support to the National Council of
Environment for Sustainable Development (CNEDD) under the Prime Ministry
and the Department of Environment in the Ministry of Hydraulics and
Environment (DE/MHE): preparation of the legal documents to implement the
1997 law institutionalizing environmental assessments; training; and equipment.
(f)   Project management: This component includes: financial audits of the Credit
Account and the Special Account; equipment; and incremental operating costs of
the National Bureau of Coordination, including contractual staff.
33.   Training will be provided in the following fields: procurement under IDA projects and
under the Nigerien budget using the national procurement code; programming of road
maintenance works; economic analysis of road projects; technical supervision of road
maintenance works; management of road data bank; and environmental issues. Additional
training activities will be defined under the various restructuring studies included in the project.
Trainees will come from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Equipment, Ministry of Planning,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment, and the National Council of
Environment for a Sustainable Development. Training activities will be organized also to
promote the development of local contractors. Seminars will be organized on the new road
maintenance strategy; on the privatization of road maintenance execution; and on transport
regulation. A workshop will be organized to launch the project. Missions will be sent to foreign
countries to review experiences in road funds, privatization of road maintenance execution, and
creation of public works equipment rental companies.
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
34.   The total project cost is estimated at US$30.5 million. IDA's contribution will amount to
US$28.0 million and the Government's contribution to US$2.5 million. In addition, the
Government will finance salaries of civil servants in NBC and some operating costs of NBC. The
annual contribution is estimated at US$10,000. Table 4 summarizes the distribution of project
costs per component and foreign currency, local currency and taxes. Project costs are detailed in
Annex 5.



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilition Project                            13
Table 4: Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
Component                   Foreign    Local   Taxes  Total % Foreign   % Base
Currency  Currency              Currency    Costs
l.Civil Works                15.9      3.1     1.4   20A      78        79
2. Equipment                  0.8      0.0    0.1   0.9       90        3
3. Technical Assistance       1.8      1.7    0.0   3.4       52        13
4. Training and Seminars      0.2      0.4     0.0   0.5      30         2
5. Operating Costs            0.0      0.0     0.0   0.1      62        0
6. PPF                        0.4      0.2     0.0   0.6      63         2
Total Base Costs              19.0     5.4     1.5   26.0     73       100
Physical Contingencies      1.6      0.3    0.1   2.0       78         8
Price Contingencies         1.8      0.5     0.2   2.5      72        10
Total Costs                  22.4      6.2     1.8   30.5     73       118
35.   IDA will finance US$5.6 million of expenditures in local currency. This is justified by
the relatively high share of expenditures in local currency in civil works on earth and rural roads
(64 percent for personnel and 24 percent for inputs) as well as by the amount of training
activities or consulting services carried out locally. Local consultants have proved to be
competitive under the PPF for engineering services because of the low technology of civil works
executed under the project as well as for audit, legal, survey or sensitization services. The
Government will finance taxes and duties on all contracts. The project is exempt of custom duties
on imported professional equipment. Counterpart funds for the earth road rehabilitation
component will be deposited in a commercial bank on a Project Account managed by the
National Bureau of Coordination prior to the signature of any works contract financed from the
credit. This account will be audited as part of the project activities. The Project Account should
be opened and an initial amount of CFAF 20 million corresponding to counterpart funds for
equipment to be purchased in 1998 should be deposited in the account before effectiveness.
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
36.   The Prime Ministry will be responsible for the overall coordination of the project through
the project's Steering Committee and the National Bureau of Coordination. The Steering
Committee coordinates both transport and urban (Cr. 2957-NIR approved by the Board on May
29, 1997) infiastructure rehabilitation projects. It is composed of representatives of the Prime
Ministry, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Infrastructure and Equipment,
Ministry of Transport, and the Secretary to Decentralization and Administrative Reform. NBC
has coordinated project preparation. It was created under the Ministry of Planning by ministerial
order in July 1996, then transferred under the Prime Ministry in January 1997. NBC's staff
consists of one civil servant, who is chief of the Bureau, and one accountant under contract.
NBC's chief has performed his duties satisfactorily; he is well accepted by other executing
agencies. Depending on the activity, sub-conmmittees composed of staff from the Steering
Committee and from executing agencies will be responsible for procurement under the project.
Procurement activities carried out under the PPF have demonstrated a satisfactory performance



14                                   Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
of members in procurement committees. Training in procurement is being provided with PPF
resources to further improve this performance.
37.   The Public Works Department in MEI will be responsible for the highway component of
the project, including road maintenance strategy studies, engineering studies and execution of the
earth road regraveling prograrn and the rural road pilot operation included in the project.
Environmental activities related to road works will be under the responsibility of the Service for
environmental impact studies in the Public Works Department. The National Council of
Environment for Sustainable Development and the Department of Environment in the Ministry
of Hydraulics and Environment will advise MEI regarding environment-related activities. DMTP
and LNTPB will be responsible for the project activities which concern their departments. The
Department of Land Transport will be responsible for road transport studies. The National
Council of Environrent for Sustainable Development and the Department of Environment in the
Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment will be responsible for non-road specific environment-
related activities (para. 32 (e) above). The National Bureau of Coordination will manage the
project accounts, ensure a timely provision of financial audits, and be responsible for reporting
on project progress.
38.   A Project Implementation Plan was drafted before appraisal and is available in the project
files. The plan includes all procedures for the execution and the management of the project
(procurement, disbursement), the project's content and objectives, detailed project costs, terms of
reference of studies, standard forms of progress reports. The plan was formally adopted by the
Government before Board presentation. The plan also includes an implementation schedule for
the project activities (Annex 6). The schedule was prepared on the assumption that the credit
would become effective on March 31, 1998.
E. PROCUREMENT
39.   During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to the procurement procedures described
hereafter, which are part of the project implementation plan. All goods and works financed
under the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January 1996 and August 1996).
Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers, and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (January 1997). Table 5
summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and procurement methods.
Procurement of Civil Works
40.   All contracts for the rehabilitation of earth roads and the construction of rural roads will
be awarded based on ICB in accordance with IDA's procurement guidelines. All ICBs will be
advertised in national newspapers and in Development Business. Bank Group's standard bidding
documents (Passation des marches de travaux-Droit civil, September 1996) will be mandatory.
Draft bidding documents are available and are being reviewed by IDA. A 7.5 percent margin of
preference may be granted in the evaluation of bids to domestic contractors. Contracts specifying
completion time more than 18 months will provide for a price adjustment clause. All bids will



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                                15
be opened in public. Evaluation criteria will be included in the standard bidding docurnents.
Contract negotiation will not be permitted. The contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder.
Table 5: Proposed Procurement Methods
(Amounts in US$ million)
Project Element               ICB       NCB        Other      Total Cost
1. Works                      24.7        -          -          24.7
(22.2)      -                    (22.2)
2. Goods                       0.4       0.3        0.2          0.9
(0.4)     (0.3)      (0.2)       (0.8)
3. Technical Assistance         -         -         3.7          3.7
-         -        (3.7)       (3.7)
4. Training and Seminars        -         -         0.6          0.6
-         -        (0.6)       (0.6)
5. Operating Costs              -         -         0.1          0.1
(0.1)      (0.1)
6. PPF Refinancing              -         -         0.6          0.6
(0.6)      (0.6)
TOTAL                         25.1       0.3        5.2         30.5
(22.6)     (0.3)      (5.2)      (28.0)
ICB: Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding; Other procedures for equipment
includes Limited International Bidding and Local Shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
Rem: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding.
Procurement of Goods
41.   Goods (spare parts for rehabilitation of public works equipment) estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$70,000 equivalent or more per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$360,000 will be procured by ICB. Tenders will be advertised in a national
newspaper and in Development Business. Use of standard bidding documents is mandatory.
Goods (cars, computers and related equipment) estimated to cost less than US$70,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$325,000 equivalent may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of NCB, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA, including: (a) bids will be opened in public in the presence of bidders or their
representatives; (b) there will be no negotiation with bidders between bid opening and contract
award; (c) bid evaluation and post-qualification criteria will be defined in precise quantitative
and monetary terms; and (d) award will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.
Standard bidding documents for NCB should be prepared before credit effectiveness. The
software for the road data bank, the equipment for road roughness measurement, and automatic
traffic counters, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$151,000 may be procured using
Limited International Bidding (LIB) by soliciting bids from qualified suppliers. For ICB, a 15
percent margin of preference may be granted in the evaluation of bids offering domestically
manufactured goods.



16                                    Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Employment of Consultants
42.   For complex, time-based assignments, lump-sum contracts and individual consultants, the
Borrower will employ such consultants under contracts, using the standard forms of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank Group, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by IDA. Where no relevant standard procurement documents have been issued by the
Bank Group, the Borrower will use other forms agreed with IDA prior to inviting proposals.
Three contracts for the project audits totaling US$149,000 will be awarded using the least-cost
selection method in accordance with pare. 3.6 of the Guidelines. Twelve contracts totaling
US$500,000 will be awarded to individual consultants selected in accordance with Section 5 of
the Guidelines. Other contracts will be awarded using the quality- and cost-based selection
method in accordance with paras. 3.2 to 3.4 of the Guidelines. The method per contract is
detailed in annex 5.
Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
43.   Prior review by IDA of bid and contract documents will be required for: (a) consultant
services estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent for firms (three contracts) and
US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants (one consultant); (b) individual consultants
selected for short-term support to the Public Works Department, the technical audit of road
maintenance works, and assessment of public works equipment; (c) civil works contracts above
US$250,000 equivalent (about six contracts) and goods contracts above US$70,000 equivalent
(two contracts). Documentation for contracts under these thresholds will be maintained for ex-
post reviews by auditors and IDA supervisory staff. For the selection of consultants, prior review
will be required for terms of reference, single-source hiring of consulting firms, amendments of
contracts raising the contract value above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individual
consultants. For all civil works contracts for which there are less than five bidders or for any
decision not to select the lowest evaluated bidder, the Borrower will submit its proposal to IDA
for no-objection prior to notifying the winning bidder.
Additional Arrangements
44.   Contracts will be awarded within the agreed bid validity period and only exceptionally,
bid validity extension may be requested. In the case of fixed price contracts, requests for second
and subsequent extensions will be permissible only if the request for extension provides for an
appropriate adjustment mechanism of the quoted price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension.
Procurement Times
45.   Procurement processing times for major steps up to contract signing were agreed during
negotiations. For consultants, time between the transmission of the letter of invitation and the
deadline for the submission of proposals should not be less than 45 days. Time between the
deadline for the submission of proposals and contract's signature should not exceed 120 days.
For goods and works, time between notification of the tender or availability of bidding



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                              17
documents, whichever is later, and deadline for submission of bids should not be less than 45
days. Time between the opening of bids and contract's signature should not exceed 120 days. A
timetable for the preparation of bidding documents for works, goods and services is included in
the Project Implementation Plan. A first General Procurement Notice is being prepared to be
issued before effectiveness. General Procurement Notices should be updated annually.
F. DISBURSEMENT
46.   Annex 5 provides the estimated annual financial commitments for the project during the
1997/2001 period. 1997 expenditures were made using PPF funds. The project is expected to be
completed within a five-year period by July 31, 2002 with a closing date of January 1st, 2003.
The following graphs compare expected disbursements to standard disbursement profiles for the
transport sector in Niger. Disbursement under the projects are expected to be slower that based
on the standard profiles during the 1998-2000 period then catch up with the standard profiles in
2001. This is justified by the start of works on rural roads only in 2000 after the rural road
maintenance strategy has been established.
30 -100%
25                                               2 80% 1
20                                                0           .60%         ,    .
FY97   FY99   FY01   FY03                       FY97 FY98 FY99 FY00 FY01 FY02 FY03 FY.E
Annual Disbursements  EStandard                   Total Disbursements  Projectn
47.   The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed on the following basis.
Table 6: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ million)
Category                       Amount           Percent of Expenditures to be Financed
Allocated          Foreign               Local
1. Works                        20.0                       90 percent
2. Goods                         0.8             100 percent          90 percent
3. Technical assistance          3.7                       100 percent
4. Training and Seminars         0.6                       100 percent
5. Operating Costs               0.1                       95 percent
6. PPF Refinancing               0.6                         N/A
Unallocated                      2.2                         N/A
Total                            28.0
48.   To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, a
Special Account will be opened in CFAF in a commercial bank on terms and conditions



18                                    Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation amounts to CFAF 400 million and covers about
four months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness, an arnount of CFAF 200 million,
representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation will be deposited in the Special Account.
The remaining balance will be made available when the total amount withdrawn from the credit
account and/or special commitments issued amounts to SDR 8 million. The Special Account will
be used for all payments below 20 percent of the initial deposit. Replenishments will be
submitted monthly.
49.   Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation, except for contracts
of less than US$250,000 equivalent for civil works, US$70,000 for goods, US$100,000 for
consulting firns and US$50,000 for individual consultants, for which certified statements of
expenditure will be used. These statements of expenditure will be subject to review by
supervision missions and periodic financial audits.
50.   Operating costs consist of incremental expenditures related to the project and supported
by the Government to operate NBC. They include consumable, communications, contractual
salaries excluding civil servant salaries, field supervision and subsistence allowances, building
and office/vehicle/equipment operation and maintenance. NBC's annual budget is estimated at
US$50,000. Operating costs will be financed after 2001 only as they are financed for the first
years of project execution by the Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project.
G. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
51.   Accounting. NBC will maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the IDA
credit. Accounting procedures will be defined in a manual prepared by NBC and to be agreed by
IDA before effectiveness. The project is assisting NBC with PPF funds to put in place a
computerized management information system to manage the project's financial accounts. The
system is expected to be implemented by December 1997. A new accountant should be
appointed before credit effectiveness.
52.   Auditing. The project auditors have already been appointed. During negotiations, the
Borrower agreed to:
(a)   have the records and accounts referred to in the preceding paragraph including
those for the Special Account and the Project Account audited semiannually, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
(b)   furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end the period covered by each semiannual audit, a certified copy of the
report of such auxdit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA shall
have reasonably requested; and
(c)   furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and
the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to time reasonably request.



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                        19
53.   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 51 records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(b)   retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the period
covered by the audit in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
payment out of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(c)   enable IDA's representatives to examine such records; and
(d)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to
in paragraph 52 and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
H. REPORTING AND MONITORING
54.   Reporting. NBC will prepare quarterly progress reports and in advance of each IDA
supervision mission. The format and the timing of the progress reports is included in the project
implementation plan drafted before appraisal. The Borrower should submit an Implementation
Completion Report to IDA no later than six months after the closing date of the credit.
55.   Monitoring. In addition to the financial audits of the project accounts, a technical audit of
the works financed under the project will be carried out semi-annually by independent external
auditors. During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out this audit and furnish the audit
report to IDA not later than four months after the end of the period covered by the audit.
56.   Performance Indicators. Three types of indicators have been defined:
(a)   Key project performance indicators (see table 7) based on which IDA will decide
at the mid-term review whether to continue the project as appraised, restructure
one project's component or the entire project, or cancel one project's component
or the entire project. These indicators will reflect the degree with which the
project development objectives are achieved. The value/target of these indicators
were agreed during negotiations.
(b)   General project performance indicators will characterize progress in project
execution, project activities and outputs. A detailed list of indicators is provided
in Annex 7.
(c)   Sector performance indicators will characterize sector evolution during project
execution. A detailed list of indicators is provided in Annex 7.



20                                            Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Table 7: Performance Indicators
Component          Key performance indicators              Value/target
Improvement of road Creation of the public works equipment rental 01-01-99
maintenance        company with private operators
administration and   Creation of a Road Maintenance Fund   01/01/99
management         Restructuring of DTP                     01-01/99
Restructuring of the Road Laboratory    01-01/99
State's disengagement of road maintenance    100 percent starting 01/01/2000
execution, except in areas under army control
Percentage of the network with quality  paved roads (T>250 veh/day): 28%;
above 12 at the end of 2001             earth roads (T>50veh/day): 48%
rural roads (T>25veh/day): 44%
Indice of vehicle operating costs in 2001  paved roads: 99; earth roads: 89;
(100 in 1997)                           rural roads: 94
Execution of road maintenance program   above 80 percent
Monitoring of network condition         one traffic survey during 7 days in 1998,
two traffic surveys during four days after
1998, measure of roughness on the paved
network and visual survey on the unpaved
network every year
Regraveling of earth  Discounted value at 12 percent of benefits for  Greater than 0
roads              civil works included in the project
57.    Supervision Plan. The project will be supervised three times a year by IDA missions.
Mission activities will consist of field visits to work sites, review of financial and management
practices, bidding and disbursement procedures, and performance indicators. Missions will also
monitor the implementation of environmental mitigation plans. The supervision schedule and
mission composition are presented in Annex 8.
58.    Mid-term Review. A mid-term review will be carried out no later than November 30,
1999. The review will give the opportunity to discuss transport issues with a large group of
sector stakeholders (shippers, private operators, administration, donors). The review will assess
the Government's continued commitment to the project's objectives. The review will take stock
of progress in the implementation of institutional reforms agreed by the Government in its Letter
of Sector Policy (Annex 2). Taking into account the numerous risks identified (para. 68), which
can prevent successful achievement of the project objectives, the mid-term review will give the
opportunity to decide on project continuation, restructuring or cancellation. The Government
agreed during negotiations to the carrying out of the mid-term review with the objectives
described above.
I. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
59.    The project is rated category A. During pre-appraisal, an overall environmental impact
assessment of the road regraveling works was carried out which concluded that most of the
works are unlikely to have any major adverse impact on the environment as: (a) they only
involve regraveling of existing roads; (b) no new construction and no new alignments are
intended; and (c) traffic patterns are not expected to change to any large extent and therefore no
significant increase of new developments with subsequent secondary environmental impacts



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                    21
would be entailed. Site-specific environmental impact assessments will be carried out for each
road as part of the engineering studies and measures will be defined to mitigate negative
environmental impacts such as loss of vegetation cover, soil erosion, land degradation or sand
encroachment. Terms of reference for these environmental impact assessments are available in
the project files. With appropriate planning of the road works including mitigation measures for
water management, soil conservation and maintenance/replacement of vegetation cover, potential
negative environrmental effects should be avoided or kept at a minimum. The mitigation
measures should be incorporated in the works contracts and consulting firms responsible for the
supervision of works execution should ensure that the measures are actually implemented. The
assessment is summarized in Annex 9.
60.   Before appraisal, a full environmental impact assessment was carried out on two existing
roads (Gaya-Margou and Margou-Ounditan) which were initially included in the project and had
potential impact on natural habitats. The southern part of road Gaya-Margou is crossing the
Dosso Reserve, created as a buffer zone for the W National Park, which is located on the
opposite side of the Niger river. Park animals occasionally cross the river to feed in the reserve
when the water level is low. A number of protected trees are also found in the area. Large areas
being under cultivation or used for pasture, the project would not involve impact on original
natural habitats. The Margou-Ounditan road serves the Dallol Bosso area, home of the last
giraffes remaining in West Africa. The area is unprotected and has become a recognized tourist
attraction. Official guides have been trained, to draw upon wildlife tourism as a source of local
income, at the same time strengthening the awareness and protection of wildlife. Measures have
been identified to minimize any potential consequences of road works, but also to take the
opportunity to improve the environmental conditions and prepare for future traffic growth.
Although the Government eventually decided that the two roads will not be included in the
project, there is still the possibility that some roads included in the project may be funded by
other sources in the future and hence the roads Margou-Gaya and Margou-Ounditan be re-
introduced in the IDA project. To ensure that the road works will not be executed without the
measures to protect the environment, the Government has committed itself to implement the
environmental mitigation plan defined in the environmental assessment, should it request IDA to
finance the works on the roads during project execution. The environmental assessment is
summarized in Annex 10.
61.   Special attention should be given to soil erosion in connection with road works on
Madaoua-Keita and Keita-RN25 PK22. Detailed directives should be developed during the
environmental study of these roads carried out as part of the detailed engineering studies. The
road Foneko-Yatakala is located in an area with scattered settlements. The region is subject to a
larger environmental assessment triggered by requests from the mining industry to construct
access roads to potential mining sites in areas not yet opened to development. Although, the road
Foneko-Yatakala does not open any new area to settlements and development, it will be
important to follow the conclusions of the on-going environmental assessment.
62.   An overall environmental assessment of the rural road sector was carried out before
appraisal. The assessment identified roads where works would have a significant environmental
impact and which would need a full environmental impact assessment before the decision to



:22                                   Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
carry out the road works is taken. A multi-criteria analysis was used to evaluate the
environmental risk related to hydrology, geomorphology, sand silting up, bushfires, use of local
materials and biodiversity. The Government has confirmed that roads included in the project will
be chosen among those not presenting a significant risk for the environment using the multi-
criteria analysis established in the overall environmental impact assessment. Technical studies
preliminary to the execution of the pilot operation will include site-specific environmental
assessments and preparation of mitigation plans which will be implemented under the project.
The assessment is summarized in Annex 11.
63.  In January 1997, the Government has adopted a law  which institutionalizes
environmental studies for economic development projects. The National Council of Environment
for a Sustainable Development (CNEDD) is the Coordinating body for environmental
management of economic development. With the creation of CNEDD, directives were given
requesting all governmental institutions to assign focal points for the environment. A unit
responsible for environmental management and impact assessment of road works in the Ministry
of Equipment and Infrastructure was created and its staff appointed in early 1997. The
Government is committed to maintain this unit during the project life. Summary terms of
reference for the staff are available in the project files. The Department of Environment in the
Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment will provide additional support to MEI. Resources and
training will be provided under the project to help in the startup of the environmental unit in
MEI. The proposed mid-term review will include a post-evaluation of the environmental impact
of the project and formulate recommendations if necessary for the second half of the project.
64.   Recommendations included in the environmental impact assessments of the regraveling
works, including the roads Gaya-Margou-Ounditan, and the rural road sector were summarized
in an environmental mitigation plan adopted by the Government on September 3, 1997. The draft
assessments were discussed with other departments in the administration and the major NGOs in
Niger involved in the environment sector. The list of activities, their timetable, the costs and
entities responsible for the implementation of the plan are summarized in Annex 12. The final
assessments and the mitigation plan will be made available to the public in Niger.
J. BENEFITS
65.   Benefits have been calculated for the regraveling of the 13 earth roads included in the
project (Table 8 below). They result from savings in vehicle operating costs and preservation of
road assets preventing further costly rehabilitation. The unit cost of works has been increased by
five percent to take into account measures to protect the environment. No benefits resulting from
these measures have been accounted for. Detailed assumptions, rates of return and net present
values are provided in Annex 13. The Net Present Value discounted at 12 percent of benefits for
the program of works included in the project amounts to CFAF 27.6 billion. ERRs for individual
roads range between 28 and more than 200 per cent. Sensitivity studies in annex 13 present the
impact of a shadow exchange rate based on a seven percent premium on foreign exchange and a
50 percent shadow price for salaries.



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                    23
Table 8: List of roads included in the project
Road                       Length (km)  Traffic (veh/day)
RNIe-Kornaka                   55.5          214
Dogondoutchi-Dogonkiria        73.5           166
Keita-RN25 PK 22               53             131
Loga-Dogondoutchi              91.1           139
Tchadaoua-Mayahi               53.4           104
Malaza est-Dabnou              25.5           83
Tebaram-Badagachiri           170.5           108
Foneko-Yatakala                92.6           94
RN 25 PK 73- Tchintabaraden    76.9           76
Tinkim-Nigeria                 76.5           77
RN 7 PK 86.6 -Boureimi        109.3           75
Gazoua-Nigeria                 66.9           76
Madoua-Keita                  114.6           70
66.   Benefits from the basic scenario were compared to benefits resulting from other
alternatives which were eventually rejected:
(a)   Pavement of one among two earth roads with traffic above 150 vehicles per day,
has been considered but rejected. Given the fixed budget for the project, this
would have allowed to pave one road and regravel six earth roads for a total of
615 km against regraveling 13 roads for a total of 1,060 km in the basic scenario.
The net present value discounted at 12 percent of this alternative is CFAF 19.9
billion, much lower than in the basic scenario.
(b)   Postponement of works by two years has also been considered. The net present
value amounts to CFAF 23.2 billion.
(c)   Alternatives with a 10-cm and a 20-cm surface layer have been compared to the
15-cm basic scenario. The net present values are CFAF 28.2 billion and CFAF
27.8 billion.
67.   Other benefits have been identified but not measured:
(a)   Benefits expected from the institution building component for the public works
sector are: strengthening of the existing capacity in MEI to monitor road
conditions and program road maintenance works; improved use of local resources
for road maintenance; improved efficiency of road maintenance execution by
using local small and medium enterprises to replace force account; reduction of
adverse impact of road works on environment.



24                                     Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
(b)   Benefits expected from the rural road component are: improved sustainability of
rural roads development programs; and reduced poverty in rural areas where the
pilot operation will be executed.
(c)   Benefits expected from the road transport component are: improved road safety
and better protection of road assets.
K. RISKS
68.   Several risks are presented hereafter. Some are related to measures with a strong political
impact, and thus difficult to mitigate. Although a solution would have been to postpone the
project until the most critical reforms are implemented, this report recommends to start the
project and assess the risk occurrence during the project's mid-term review. This is justified by
the good quality of the dialogue with the Government during project preparation and by the
opinion that starting the project would do more to help implement difficult measures than
postponing it. The following risks were identified:
(a)   The political risk is the most important risk. The new Government, which came
on power in 1996, is fully committed to the proposed reforms, but difficulties
encountered during the preparation of the project before 1996 demonstrate that
reforms may be strongly opposed if the commitment weakens due to political
changes. A new Government could delay State divestiture of operations in the
transport sector. It is difficult to identify measures which could mitigate this risk.
Therefore, should the risk occur, the mid-term review will give the opportunity for
any decision regarding project continuation, restructuring or cancellation.
(b)   As the project will support a significant restructuring of the transport and public
works sector, there is a risk of delays in the implementation of the reforms due to
Government's reluctance to proceed because of social impact, under the pressure
of staff to be laid off in the institutions which need to be restructured. A
sensitization campaign will be carried out to informn and explain the rationale for
the reforms. The campaign will include workshops, seminars, study trips abroad
financed with project funds. However, this is not expected to significantly
mitigate the risk. Again, the mid-term review will give the opportunity for any
decision regarding project continuation, restructuring or cancellation.
(c)   Lack of funds for severance payment of staff to be laid off is a serious risk taking
into account the scarcity of local resources. To mitigate this risk, particular
attention will be paid during project execution to the inscription of the required
resources in the annual budgets prepared in consultation with IDA. Resources
will be needed in 1998 for the severance payment of staff in the equipment pool.
They range between CFAF 435 million and CFAF 950 million depending on the
outcome of negotiations with the union. Currently, CFAF 800 million are
budgeted by the Government in 1997 and CFAF 1.2 billion in 1998 for
expenditures related to the civil servant voluntary departure program and the
financing of redundancies is sought from adjustment operations. Resources will



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                      25
be needed in 1999 and 2000 to accompany the transfer of road maintenance
execution from force account to contractors, but have still to be estimated based
on the study on the restructuring of the Department of Public Works to be carried
out under the project. In addition to the transport sector, ressources will be
required for the redundancies resulting from the ongoing program of privatization
which includes the water, electricity and telecommunications utilities. Provision
of resources to finance these redundancies is being discussed with donors
including IDA. Also included in the macro-economic dialogue is the amount of
severance payment paid per staff, which currently equals three years of salaries
but, if maintained as such, would largely exceed the resources available in the
budget or from donors. The mid-term review will assess the impact of the
occurrence of lack of funds for severance payment on the project.
(d)   Because of the passenger traffic allocation system, the risk is that savings on
vehicle operating costs resulting from improved conditions on roads regraveled
under the project are not passed on to passengers. The risk does not exist for
freight transport as the allocation system is not applied to domestic freight
transport on the roads included in the project and the project will not finance
strengthening of paved international itineraries which link Niger to Benin and
Togo and where the system is applied. For passenger traffic, the Government is
committed to discouraging this system and seek to replace the system by bus
schedules. Sensitization activities aimed at transport operators will mitigate the
risk that discussions between the Government and transport operators fail and that
the allocation system be maintained.
(e)   Lack of protection of road assets after their maintenance is a risk which would
hamper the sustainability of road works. Cooperation of the road industry is
essential to mitigate this risk. The project will support through seminars,
workshops and study trips abroad, the dialogue with the road transport industry to
improve compliance with the regulation on axle loads and rain barriers.
Involvement of road users in the Road Fund is also a measure expected to
sensitize road users to the need to protect road assets.
(f)   To mitigate the impact of lack of counterpart funds after the start of contracts, the
Government will be requested to deposit counterpart funds for any works contract
financed from the IDA credit under the road component on a project account in a
commercial bank prior to the signature of the contract. However, this does not
mitigate the risk of lack of counterpart funds before signature of the contracts
which would delay contracts' signature and project's execution. Attention will be
paid during project execution to the inscription of the required resources in the
annual budgets prepared in consultation with IDA. Counterpart funds
requirements will be included in the management of the State's cash-flow, which
was not the case in the past, and this is expected to mitigate the risk of their
unavailability. In addition, donors will pay a particular attention to the
improvement of the State's cash-flow  management as a macro-economic



26                                     Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
performance indicator. The mid-term review will assess the risk occurrence and
appropriate decisions will be taken in this respect at that time.
(g)   In the highway sector, the risk of lack of funds to finance recurrent costs will be
mitigated by improved planning and budgeting, and, starting with fiscal year
1999, the use of the Road Fund replenished with resources collected from road
users and managed with the participation of road users. A satisfactory macro-
economic framework will also alleviate this risk.
(h)   Lack of sustainability of capacity building activities may result of the mobility of
staff in the technical ministries. This will be mitigated by favoring mass training
rather than individual training.
(i)   Lack of consistency in the dialogue between IDA and the Government due to the
turnover of IDA's task managers resulting often in the new task managers
questioning the approach taken under the project is a risk emphasized by the
Government. This risk will be mitigated by involving more the Resident Mission
in the supervision of the project to ensure continuity on the IDA side. IDA's
management will also pay attention to ensure smooth transition between task
managers, comprising at least one week of work at headquarters and one
supervision mission in common.



Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project                    27
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
69.   Before negotiations, the Government: (a) adopted legal documents assigning to the
Steering Committee and NBC their responsibilities during project implementation; (b) decided
on the type of structure to replace the equipment pool; (c) confirmed its agreement to the creation
of a Road Fund; (d) confirmed the programming of works to be financed under the project and
the inscription under the budget of corresponding counterpart funds.
70.   During negotiations, the Government confirmed the source of funds to be used to finance
redundancies in the equipment pool (para. 68) and agreed to:
(a)   the letter of sector policy (para. 5);
(b)   prepare annual budgets and Public Investment Programs in the transport sector in
consultation with IDA (paras. 8 and 26);
(c)   implement before January 1, 1999 a mechanism to finance road maintenance
based on the following principles: (i) involvement of road users in its
management; (ii) carrying out of technical and financial audits of road
maintenance programs financed by the mechanism; (iii) commercial management
of the mechanism; and (iv) to the extent possible, resources collected from road
users (para. 10);
(d)   carry out annually a technical audit of road maintenance works executed with IDA
funds (para. 55);
(e)   key performance indicators (para. 56); and
(f)   carry out jointly with IDA a mid-term review at mid-execution of the project to
assess the Government's continued commitment to the objectives listed in the
letter of sector policy and to the project's objectives (para. 58).
71.   At Board presentation, the Government has confirmed: (a) the letter of sector policy
(para. 5); and (b) the Project Implementation Plan (para. 38). As a condition for credit
effectiveness, the Government should: (a) appoint the accountant in BNC (para. 51); (b) open in
a commercial Bank the Project Account (para. 35); and (c) deposit the initial amount (para. 35).
72.   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR
20.3 million (US$ 28.0 million equivalent) to Niger on standard IDA terms.



28                                              Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project



Annex 1                                                                                         29
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance         Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions and
l______ _  Indicators   |    Supervision      J          Risks
CAS Objective                                                          [CAS Objective to Bank
Mission]
Foster a favorable                                                     Continuous Government's
business climate,                                                      commitment to the macro-
including further                                                      economic reform program
development of links with                                              Return of donors which have
Nigeria:                                                              left after the january 1996
military coup
* Restore sound public                                                 Rainfall is favorable
finance management
* Improve environment
for private investment
* Provide basic economic   v Road rehabilitation  . Periodic surveys of
infrastructure          program: 60 percent of    road network
priority network attaining   condition by
minimum quality         Department of Public
standards               Works
- Road Fund: Availability   - Technical audit of
of resources for        road maintenance
maintenance             programs
- Financial audit of
Road Fund



30                                       Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Narrative Summary     Key Performance       Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions and
Indicators          Supervision             Risks
Project Development                                            [Development Objectives
Objectives                                                     to CAS Objective]
Improve the condition   Percentage of the  Annual surveys on    A: Starting January 1999,
of the road network  network with quality   road conditions by    resources are allocated to
above 12 at the end of   MEI             maintain the priority
2001:                                    network in accordance
paved roads (T>250                       with the outcome of the
veh/day): 28%;                           road maintenance
earth roads                              strategy study and the
(T>50veh/day): 48%                       study to create the Road
rural roads                              Fund.
(T>25veh/day): 44%
Improve efficiency of   Execution ratio of road  Annual reports of
road maintenance     maintenance program    activities by DTP
execution            above 80 percent      Annual technical
audits of the road
maintenance program
Road Fund created    Legal documents
before 01/01/99      signed. Board and
general manager
appointed



Annex 1                                                                               31
Narrative Summary      Key Performance       Monitoring and    Critical Assumptions and
Indicators          Supervision              Risks
Project Outputs                                                 [Outputs to Development
Objectives]
State divested of public  DMTP transformed  Legal documents     A: Funds are available to
works equipment rental  into a public works  creating the company  finance severance
activities            equipment rental      signed. Board and   payment
company with private   general manager    A: The management of
operators by 01/01/99   appointed         the equipment rental
company is efficient
100 percent of routine
State divested of road    maintenance works  Annual reports of  A: Funds are available to
maintenance execution  contracted out starting   activities by DTP  finance severance
January 1, 2000                           payment
A: The local contractors
develop to take over
works executed by force
account
Focus MEI on          DTP restructured by    New organizational   A: Enough resources are
planning, budgeting,    01/01/99            chart adopted and   available to finance
programming and                            implemented          DTP's operating costs
supervising works                                               A: DTP has the human
resources necessary for
efficient planning,
budgeting, programming,
and supervision of works.
Road Laboratory is    Road Laboratory       New statute
autonomous            restructured before  implemented
01/01/99
Improved capacity in    Programs of works   Ministerial orders
DTP to program road    established annually in  Annual technical
maintenance works     consistence with the  audits of the road
outcome of the road   maintenance program
maintenance strategy
studies
Improved capacity in    Environmental unit  DTP's new
DTP to manage         created in DTP        organizational chart
environmental issues in                    implemented
road maintenance      Ratio of environmental  Annual reports
assessments carried out prepared by
in the total number of   environmental unit in
projects              DTP



32                                        Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Project Components                                                 [Components to
Outputs]
Assistance to         Plans of action       Consultants' reports   R: Government and
institutional reforms in  prepared for DMTP,                       MEI are reluctant to
the road maintenance   the Road Laboratory                         divest of force account
sector                and DTP                                      R: Government is
reluctant to proceed
with reforms because
of social impact
Improvement of road    New road maintenance  Consultants's report    R: Resources lack for
maintenance           strategies defined for                       severance payment
programming           the primary network by                       R: Government is
procedures            December 1998                                reluctant to publicize
maintenance efforts
concentrated on a
priority network for
political reasons
Execution of an earth    1,060 km of roads  Progress reports       A: The road transport
road regraveling      regraveled            prepared by consulting  industry supports
program                                     firmns supervising     measures to protect
works execution       road assets (rain
Field visits by MEI   barriers, axle load
regulation)
Training on                                 Annual reports of the    A: Enough resources
environmental issues in                     environmental unit in   are allocated to carry
road maintenance                            DTP                    out environmental
assessments
Training in road                                                   R: Staff in MEI does
maintenance                                                        not keep its position
management                                                         after receiving training



Annex 2                                                                       33
Annex 2: Government's letter of sector policy
I. REMINDER ON MACRO-ECONOMIC OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
During the last years, the economy of Niger has been characterized by a slowing down of
activities and the emergence of external and fiscal deficits, whose internal and exogenous
explanatory factors are bad climatic conditions, the conditions of a land-locked country, the price
fall of uranium, the deterioration of terms of exchange and deficiencies in socio-economic
management.
The bad performances generated by the weak competitiveness of the economy are
worsened by the net aggravation of mass poverty faced by a large portion of the population. The
numerous economic choices adopted by the authorities have not given the expected results.
After the interruption or the absence of programs with the institution of Bretton Woods during
the 1989-1993 period, the government has resumed its adjustment efforts since the second
semester of 1995.
From the results obtained in 1996, the Government has updated and strengthened its mid-
term strategy with the principal objective being an acceleration of the economic growth that will
allow it to sustainably reduce poverty. The objectives and measures associated to the
Government's strategy are described in the policy framework paper for the 1997-1999 period.
During this period, the Government intends to continue its efforts to stabilize the macro-
economy, while creating favorable conditions for a strong, balanced and sustainable growth.
The economy of Niger will have to be more involved in investment activities, production
and exportation in order to realize the economic growth desired or expected.
The Government will continue therefore to pursue rigorous monetary and budgetary
policies, to intensify structural reform, in particularly that of public enterprises and public
administration, to improve management of rural development and natural resources, while giving
a particular importance to policies leading to better education, health and infrastructure.
II. POLICIES
A.   ROAD MAINTENANCE POLICY
Since 1989, Niger's economic and financial situation has ceased to be favorable to the
maintenance of a satisfactory level of investment in road maintenance and construction. The
combination of the resulting maintenance backlog, the serious deterioration of the entire road
network and the urgent need to satisfy new access infrastructure requirements calls for new
attitudes and rigorous utilization of the available resources.



34                                    Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
A.1   Objectives and Goals
Niger's road maintenance objectives and goals are, essentially, to:
*  ensure the sustainability of road sector investments;
e  improve access both to and within Niger;
*  improve road maintenance resources management and utilization;
.  promote small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the construction and public works
sector.
A.2  Strategies
These comprise:
*  implementing an efficient road maintenance works programming and budgeting system;
*  improving road maintenance execution conditions and methods;
*  opening up access to poor areas and those with high agricultural or mining potential;
* divesting government from road maintenance execution;
*  implementing procedures for speedy payment of contractors;
  implementing a mechanism for sustainable financing of road maintenance;
*  setting up a training program for SMEs and sector management agencies;
*  taking into account environmental considerations into all road projects;
* tailoring the government investment program to the country's financial capacity;
*  favoring a policy of roads sector investment financed by non-reimbursable assistance and
very soft loans.
A.3   Activities
A.3.1 Activities already undertaken
Certain measures have already been implemented under the road maintenance action
plan. They include:
*  transfer of the equipment of the former rural roads agency to the Public Works Equipment
Department (DMTP);
*  decision to create an equipment rental company with private operators to replace the
equipment pool (November 1997);
*  summary assessment of the cost of rehabilitation of the equipment to be used by the new
equipment rental company;
*  updating of the road data bank;
*  creation of a road maintenance account (april 15, 1997);
*  estimation of total annual road maintenance cost (routine, periodic, rehabilitation);
*  estimation of the annual budget of the Public Works Directorate (operation, traffic counting,
roughness measurement, axle load measurement, visual analysis);



Annex 2                                                                         35
*  privatization of road maintenance execution: since April 1997, all emergency operations are
executed by private contractors.
*  creation of a unit responsible for environmental management and impact assessment of road
works in the Department of Public Works and appointment of the staff in the unit;
*  incorporation in the detailed engineering studies of road works and the works contracts of
technical specifications to protect the environment.
A.3.2 Activities to be carried out
The supplementary activities planned for the short and medium term are:
* prepare a road maintenance strategy (December 1998);
*  reclassify the road network;
*  privatize road maintenance execution:
(a)   in January 2000, 100% of routine maintenance will be contracted out, except in
certain unsafe areas zones in the north, where the works will be executed by force
account involving Military Engineering and Public Works;
(b)   create a road fund in 1998, operational in January 1999;
(c)   create the public equipment rental company in light of the findings or conclusions of
the study (January 1999);
(d)   restructure the Public Works Department to adapt to the new road maintenance
strategy (January 1999);
(e)   restructure the National Public Works and Construction Laboratory in order to
because financially and administratively autonomous (January 1999);
(f)   take steps to ensure continuous and regular monitoring of the road network;
(g)   define a strategy for the design and maintenance of rural roads in consultation with
beneficiaries (December 1998) to be tested through a pilot operation of 150 km.
(h)   operate the Gaya weighing station (December 31, 1998);
(i)   set up a national committee to reflect on transport sector issues (all sector partners):
a.    enactment of legislation on protection of the country's road assets (June
1998);
b.    revision of the road taxation system (June 1998);
c.    revision of the axle-load limitation legislation (June 1998);
(j)   revise procedures to deliver agreement of construction and public works SMEs
(1998);
(k)   organize SME training;
(I)   organize continuing training for sector administration staff;
(m)   provide institutional support to the implementation of other measures to implement;
(n)   incorporate the social cost of restructuring activities in the government budget;
(o)   prepare a transport sector project based on a rolling investment program reflecting the
Govermment's financial capacity, together with a program of institutional reforms
involving coordination of the sector donors (2001).



36                                       Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
B.    TRANSPORTATION
B.1   LIand and Sea Transport
The trucking industry comprises a modem sector with a few companies, such as the Niger
National Road Transport Company (Societe Nationale des Transports Nigeriens--SNTN), and an
informal sector consisting of private operators grouped within a road transport union.
The economic crisis that has prevailed in Niger for the last few years has generated a
number of structural and organizational problems. These include, in particular:
*  low road transport profitability;
*  surplus capacity;
o  an aged and decrepit vehicle fleet;
*  inadequate extension and operator training agencies;
*  poorly qualified transport operators;
*  high transportation costs.
B.1.1 Objectives and goals
Pursuit of transport system efficiency necessarily calls for defining orientations and
specific objectives. These may be summarized as follows:.
*  improving access to and within Niger;
e  reducing transportation costs;
*  improving service quality;
*  strengthening road safety.
B.1.2 Strategies
The above objectives will be pursued through the following strategies:
*  diversification of maritime access routes;
*  improvement of the free circulation of persons and goods;
*  phased liberalization of the sector;
*  better matching of supply and demand;
*  logistical improvements;
*  renewal of the vehicle fleet;
*  upgrading of operators' professional skills;
*  strengthening institutional capacities;
*  revitalizing the agencies with road safety responsibilities;
*  strengthening vehicle technical inspection.
B.1.3 Plan of activities



Annex 2                                                                         37
B. 1.3.1 Activities already implemented. A number of measures have already been taken under
the strategy support plan. They include:
* liberalization of transport tariffs (Decree no. 94/PRN/MCT of June 22, 1994);
* ending of SNTN's monopoly on the transport of the freight of mining companies (Order no.
037 MACA/T/DTT of June 28, 1996);
* the SNTN restructuring plan, comprising:
(a)   transfer of passenger transport activities to focus SNTN's activities on transport of
general freight and petroleum products:
a.    creation of a private interurban passenger transport company in November
1994;
b.    creation of a mixed-capital company in December 1996;
(b)   downsizing of SNTN by reducing the number of staff: 20 staff have benefited of
advanced packages for retirement;
(c)   organization of personnel information and awareness-raising activities related to the
company restructuring plan.
B. 1.3.2Activities to be carried out Supplementing the activities already carried out, the
following measures will be taken in the short and medium term:
* to fmalize the SNTN restructuring plan, as follows:
(a)   the interurban and urban transportation companies will be operational by end. of 1997;
(b)   146 staff will leave SNTN by the end of the first quarter of 1998;
-     discourage the traffic allocation system by:
(a)   organizing awareness-raising and information activities for transport operators and
users: a workshop will be organized for this purpose by December 1997;
(b)   setting up regular transportation services provided on pre-established terms: in the
case of interurban transport, Order no. 031 of May 24, 1983 (concerning transport
license validity zones) will be strictly applied before the end of March 1998;
(c)   putting relations between transport operators and shippers on a contractual basis
(institution of transport contracts) in 1998: to that end the Government will encourage
the formation of transport cooperatives or companies;
* eliminate excess road controls pursuant to Circular no. l0/MI/AT/MDN of November 7,
1996 concerning transport vehicle inspection procedures;
* the following activities will take place concerning accident prevention and road safety:
(a)   revitalize the training agencies such as the Road Transport Techniques Training
Center (Centre de Formation aux Techniques de Transports Routiers--CFTTR);
(b)   provide basic and further training in road safety management for the sector's
supervisory institutions;
(c)   organize the collection and analysis of accident data;
(d)   conduct road user awareness-raising and information activities;
(e)   take steps to strengthen vehicle inspection;
* to manage the development of the vehicule fleet, the vehicle certification computerized
system will be extended outside of Niamey;



38                               0   Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
abolish OCBN's monopoly: the Government of Niger reaffirms its determination to abolish
OCBN's freight transport monopoly, in consultation with the Beninese party; The
Government also reaffirms its determination to progressively privatize the management of
OCBN in the context of the negotiations with its partners (the Beninese authorities, World
Bank, Caisse Francaise de Developpement). A consultation among all parties involved is
envisaged in 1998.
o the Government reaffirms its determination to restructure the maritime transport sector to
adapt it to ongoing changes; recommendations issued by the Ministerial Conference of
Western and Central Africa on Maritime Transport held in Cotonou in June 1997 will be
implemented; the sector and auxiliary services will be liberalized within a five-year period
and the activities of the National Shippers Council (CNUT) will be reviewed
accordingly.CNUT will stop distributing maritime cargo traffic by June 1998; shippers will
be free to chose their shipping line; a reflection will be launched on the management of
traffic rights; CNUT will be involved in other activities; in this regard, construction of an
hinterland port will be envisaged and a national transport observatory will be created in 1998;
* river infrastructure will be built to facilitate loading and unloading of pirogues.
B.2   Air Transport
This subsector, in which Niger places great hope, has for some time been beset by
difficulties which hamper its operation.
B.2.1 Objectives and goals
The main objective is to improve airport management.
B.2.2 Strategy
The strategy is to transfer the management of national civil aviation operations to the Air
Navigation Safety Agency for Africa and Madagascar (Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation
Aerienne en Afrique et a Madagascar--ASECNA). Negotiations to that end have already begun.
B. 2.3 Plan of activities
This comprises:
* transfer of the management of national civil aviation operations to ASECNA;
* reduce the price of aviation fuel in order to make Niger's airport platforms competitive;
* stabilize aviation fees at the 1995 rate for the years 1996 and 1997.



Annex 3                                                               39
Annex 3: Road Maintenance Budget
I. Department of Public Works
The current 1997 budget amounts at CFAF 3.1 billion (section 458 of the budget)
and is detailed in the following table.
Table 1: 1997 Road Maintenance Budget
(CFAF million)
Type of expenditures                 Amount
Small equipment                        2
Salaries of non civil servants         152
Rain barriers                          32
Materials                              23
Gasoline                              326
Rental of equipment                   1,375
Travel allowance                       26
DTP's operating costs                  186
Emergency operations                  775
Routine maintenance pilot operations  203
TOTAL                                3,100
As shown in table 2 below, annual budget requirements for routine maintenance
are estimated at CFAF3 billion. In addition, about CFAF775 million are needed annually
for emergency operations (for example removal of sand, reconstruction/construction of
bridges). The Highway Department's operating costs, excluding salaries of civil servants,
are estimated at CFAF240 million. The actual budget requirements total about CFAF4
billion against CFAF3.1 billion budgeted in 1997.
Table 2: 1997 Budget requirements for routine maintenance
(CFAF million)
Type of operation           Paved roads      Earth roads       Total
Patching                        591             519            1,110
Light grading                    0              357             357
Heavy grading                    0              206             206
Cantonage                       433             890            1,323
Sub-total routine maintenance  1,024           1,972           2,996
Emergency operations            430             345            775
DTP's operating costs           93              147             240
TOTAL                          1,547           2,464           4,011



40                             Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Budget requirements were calculated for the priority network consisting of
3,030.6 km of paved roads and 4,625.1 km of earth roads. Maintenance standards and
costs are detailed in Chapter IV.
II. Equipment Pool
Table: 3 1997 budget is summarized below
(in CFAF 000):
Revenues             Amount  Expenditures                      Amount
Equipment rental       1.708,0 Personnel                         471,7
Other services provided  32,5 Operating costs                    939,3
Ferries                  24,0 Transport                          152,5
Sale of equipment        35,0 Lodging                             2,0
Renewal of equipment    1.343,8 Amortization of equipment        234.1
Purchase and maintenance of      1.343.8
equipment
Total                 3.143,3                                   3.143,3
lII. Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure
Table 4: 1997 Ministry's budget is summarized in the table below.
Budget item                                             Amount (CFAF 000)
258- Minister accomodation                                            250
358 - Ministry's operating costs                                  959.256
1-Personnel                                                 838.384
2-Equipment                                                  76.253
1-For operating services                               16.558
Department of Public Works                        1.860
2-Technical equipment                                  19.332
Departrnent of Public Works                       7.700
3-Electricity                                          16.771
4-Telephone                                            15.532
5-Water                                                 5.560
6-Maintenance of buildings                              2.500
3-Transport                                                  44.619
458 - Road maintenance                                           3.100.000
Total                                                            4.059.506



Annex 3                                                                  41
IV:Maintenance standards
Earth roads
- one light grading per year on roads where the surface layer is less than 3 cm. These
roads are in poor condition and need regraveling or rehabilitation.
- on roads where the surface layer is more than 3 cm, the frequency of light grading is the
following:
Layer<3 cm                 Layer>3 cm
AADT<100  l00<AADT<150  AADT>150
Number of gradings       1            2              4              6
Km                     74.5         3,465.9        604.9          480.0
AADT: Average annual daily traffic (vehicles per day)
- Heavy grading is executed on 20 percent of the network every year.
- Patching
Traffic (veh/day)      Layer (cm)     Quantity of patching      Km
(m3lkm./an)
AADT<50                   >10                 0                996.4
<10                 6                918.2
50<AADT<100               >10                 6                538.3
<10                22                1,087.3
AADT>100                  >10                22                642.9
<10                34                442.0
Paved roads
- Patching: Percentage of surface to be patched every year and km of roads concerned.
Traffic (veh/day)                       Quality mark
0-8           8-12          12-16          16-20
%   Km   %   Km   %   Km   %   Km
AADT<200          0.8   283.5   0.2    0.0    0.1   539.7   0.0   113.2
200<AADT<600    1.2   161.9   0.4   733.7   0.2   285.8   0.0   294.1
AADT>600           1.6   246.6   0.8   151.8   0.3   220.3   0.1    0.0



42                             Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Maintenance costs
Paved roads
Maintenance activity                 Unit cost
Patching                             FCFA6,000 per m3
Cantonage                            FCFA143,000 per km
Earth roads
Maintenance activity                 Unit cost
Patching                             CFAF8,388 per m3
Light grading                        CFAF29,000 per km per year
Heavy grading                        CFAF223,000 per km per year
Cantonage                            CFAF192,500 per km



Annex 4                                                                         43
Annex 4: Public Investment Program
1998    1999    2000    Total      Financing
Agades-Zinder              0    6,403    6,403   12,806   EU (still to be
confirmed)
Dosso-Sabongari        4,770                     4,770          ADB
Maradi-Frontier                                                GOVT
Niamey-Dosso                    6,615    6,613   13,228       FKDEA
GOVT
New access to           1,285                     1,285           EU
goldfield areas
Filingue-Tahoua          120                       120            EU
Arlit-Assamaka                   600               600           TBS
Tillaberi-Mali frontier    4,600    8,800       13,400            EU
Secondary roads ALG    1,025    1,670     566    3,261     EU, AGCD
Rural roads              507     983      940    2,430           CFD
Gotheye-M6hana                  1,388     925    2,313         BOAD
TBS
Tessaoua-Mayahi          509                       509            EU
TOTAL                 12,816   26,459   15,447   54,722
without IDA project
Transport Infra.       2,553    5,336    6,945   14,834          IDA
Rehab. Project                                                 GOVT
TOTAL                 15,369   31,795   22,392   69,556
with IDA project
Amounts in CFAF million; W: Works; S: Study; C: Control of Works
Amounts for the Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project correspond to slower
disbursements than forecasted by the Government.
TBS: to be sought; EC: European Union; IDB: Islamic Bank of Development;
ADB: African Development Bank; CFD: Caisse Fran9aise de Developpement; WADB:
West Africa Development Bank; ABEDA: Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa; OPEC: Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; FKDEA: Koweiti Fund
for Arab Economic Development; AGCD: Belgian Administration for Development
Cooperation; GOVT: Government



44                                                 Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Annex 5: Detailed Project Costs
Component                                 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total  IDA    For.   Proc
Exc.   meth
Earth Road Regraveling
Civil Works                                    2,355 4,887 4,925 5,060 2,655  19,882  17,893  15,412   ICB
Supervision ofworks                               87   180  .181   186    98    731    731    331  QCBS
Engineering and environmental studies                   68    70                  138    138      63  QCBS
Engineering and environmental studies (ppf)    132                                132    132      73  QCBS
Gaya-Margou-Ounditan study (ppf)            8                                       8       8      4
Total                                      140 2,442 5,134 5,176 5,246 2,752 20,891  18,902  15,883
Improvement of road administration and management
Highway Department
Support to Public Works Department              72    56    39    20    20    207    207    143         IC
Support to Public Works Department (ppf)
Public Investment Program            26                                     26      26     20
Performance indicators                7                                      7       7      5
Performance indicators                7                                      7       7      5
Study of Public Works Department's
International consultants                 117                              117    117      81  QCBS
Local consultants                          16                               16      16      0      IC
Road maintenance strategy study                141                              141    141      79  QCBS
Implementation of road data bank              216    19                         235    235    162  QCBS
Road Fund study                                109                              109    109      61  QCBS
Road Fund management system                    111                              111    111      38  QCBS
Audit of Road Fund                                    28    29    30    31    118    118        41   LCS
Tech. audit of road maintenance program         18    19    19    20    20       96     96      67     IC
Definition of SMEs training program            27                                27     27      19     IC
Training
Trips abroad (ppf)                   20                                     20      20     20
Procurement (ppf)                   21                                      21      21      15
Procurement                                21    22                         44      44     30
Supervision of works                       18    19                         37      37     25
Provision for other training               23    23    24                   70      70      0
Seminar on privat of road maint       1                                      1       1      0
Trips abroad                                9     9                         18      18      18
HDM training (ppf)                   16                                     16      16      16
HDM training                               16                               16      16      16
Seminar on HDM (ppf)                  I                                      I       I      0
Rural infrastructure seminar (ppf)    3                                      3       3      3
Small and medium enterprises                9    10    10                   29      29      0
Public Works Dept. Restructuring           15    15    16    16             62      62      0
Environment Unit
Equipment                                  73                               73      66     66    (1)
Operating costs                             2     2      3     3            10      10      6
Training and seminars                       5     5      5     5            19      19      4
Foreign technical assistance               18    19    19                   56      56     39      IC
Social scientist                            7     7      7                  20      20      0      IC
Equipment (project)
Collection of road data                    79    18   151                  248    223    222    (2)
Computers                                 107                              107      96     96   NCB



Annex 5                                                                                                     45
For.   Proc
Component                                   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total  Total  Exc.  meth.
Equipment (ppf)
Computers                                7                                        7       7      6   NCB
Vehicle                                 35                                       35     33      32   NCB
Sub-total                                   144  1,229   271   321    94    7!  2,131  2,085  1,335
~~~~~~~~~..................................................................   ..............   .................. .............. I.............   ..............   ..............   ...............   ...............   .........I.......   ...................... ............................................................
Equipment Pool
Study of equip rental company (ppf)         124                                      124    124    78
Assessment of staff                                27                                 27    27       15  QCBS
Support to implement of equip rental              108                                108    108    75  QCBS
company
Assessment of equipment                             18                                 18     18     13  QCBS
Rehabilitation of equipment                       357                                357   321    320    ICB
Sub-total                                   124   510                                634   598   501
Road Laboralouy
Restructuring study                                36                                 36     36    20  QCBS
Support to implement of restructuring
- International consultants                      22                                22     22      15  QCBS
- Local consultants                               7                                 7       7      0      IC
Sub-total                             ~~~~~~                                    ~~~ ~~~~64  64  64    35
Total  ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ --------268  1,803-  271   322              9      71  2,829- 2,747  1i,871
Rural roads
Civil works                                                   2,370 2,436          4,806  4,325  3,726    ICB
Overall environment impact assessmt (ppf)   33                                        33     33      20
Rural road maintenance strategy                   145                                145    145      81  QCBS
Implementation of the pilot operation               18    75    77    60             230   230    129  QCBS
Engineering and environmental studies                     85    87                   172    172      78  QCBS
Sensitization and monitoring                              19    19    20              58     58     20  QCBS
Supervision of works                                             87    90            177    177      80  QCBS
Total                                           33   163   178 2,641 2,605             5,619  5,140  4,135
Land Transport Department
Assessment of infrastructure                      72                                 72      72     41  QCBS
Support to the creation of the observatory
- Technical assistance                       28                                 28      28      20  QCBS
- Equipment                                    7                                 7        6      6   NCB
- Training                                   21                                 21      21       0
- Study of international costs               28                                 28      28      13  QCBS
Road safety study                                 54    19    19    20              112     112      63  QCBS
Study of a container terminal                    106                                106     106    60  QCBS
Study of training framework                       27                                 27      27      15  QCBS
Development of river ports                        10                                 10       10      0  QCBS
Computerization of vehicle certification
- Technical assistance                         7                                  7       7      0  QCBS
- Equipment                                  71                                 71       64     64   NCB
-Training                                      3                                 3        3      0
Equipment for road safety                                 7                           7        7      7   NCB
Improvt of technical control of vehicles          36     19                          55      55      31  QCBS
Transport and poverty study                       51                                 51      51      17  QCBS
Seminar (ppf)                                                                         9        9      0
Seminars                                    9      19    19    19                    58      58       0
Total                                           9   540    64    39    20              671    664   335



46                                                 Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Component                                1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total  Total  For.  Proc
Exc.  meth.
Environment
CNEDD training,                               18    19    19                  56     56    39
Training needs                                 7     7      7                 20     20      0     IC
Workshops and seminars CNEDD                  32    33    34                  99     99      0
Support to BEEEI                              26                              26     26      0     IC
Workshop BEEEI                                 2                               2      2      0
Equipment and computers                       10                              10       9     9   NCB
Vehicle                                       40                              40     36    36   NCB
Total                                           134    58    60                 253    248    83
Project management
Consolidated EMP (ppf)                2                                      2       2      0
Audit of PPF (ppf)                    5                                      5       5      0
Project implementation plan (ppf)    15                                     15      15     15
Audit of project accounts                                          31       31     24      It   LCS
Operating costs of coordination unit                               61       61      61     40
Accountant                                                         25       25      20      0      IC
Management information system (ppf)   106                                  106    106      54
Trips abroad (ppf)                   15                                     15      15     15
Advertisement of procurement (ppf)   10                                     10      10      0
Publishing of project documents             4                                4       4      0
Total                                  152     4                     117      273    261    134
TOTAL                                 600 5,086 5,705 8,178 7,965 2,940  30,474 27,962 22,441
(1) NCB: US$66,000; LIB: US$4,000; Local shopping: US$2,000
(2) NCB: US$202,000; LIB: US$147,000; Local shopping: US$5,000



Annex 6                                                                 47
Annex 6: Project Implementation schedule
The attached tables detail the implementation schedule for the earth road
regraveling component, the rural road component, the privatization of the equipment
pool, and the restructuring of the Highway Departrnent and the Road Laboratory. Other
activities such as specific studies carried out in a single stage will be executed during the
first year of project execution. Other activities such as audits will be carried out annually
during the entire period of project execution. Their implementation schedule can be found
in annex 5 which details project costs per year and activity.



_         1 l   l     1997               1998               1999               2090               2
ID   Task Name        _                                    Duration    Start    Finish  OIr 2Itr 3|Q ;rI  tr 2tr3Qtr4It 1r tr 2tr3Qtr 4  tri tr2trt 3tr 4  tr  tr2
I    1. Regraveling of earth roads-Lot no. 1                   417d    7/4197   1127199       _        *                * p
2        Signature of engineering contracts                      Od    7/4/97    7/4/97
3        Submission of draft reports                             Od  11/11/97  11/11/97
4        Observations by Administration and IDA                 22d  11/11/97  12/10197
5        Final report                                            Od  12125/97  12/25/97                12125
6        Launching of bidding for works and supervision          Od    1/8198    1/8/98
7        Opening of proposals                                    Od   2/22/98   2/2298                   V22
8        Award of contracts for works and supervision           33d   2123/98    4/8198
9        Signature of contracts                                 iOd    419/98   4122198
10       Notification of contracts                                Sd   4/23198   4129/98
11       Start of works                                           Od   4/30/98   4/30198
12       Execution of works                                     194d    5/1/98   1/27/99                      3
13   I. Regraveling of earth roads-Lot no. 2                   612d    7/4/97  10/27199        _      .
14       Signature of engineering contracts                       Od    7/4/97    7/4/97
15       Submission of draft reports                              Od  11/11/97  11/11/97               1/11                                                                       i3
16       Observations by Administration and IDA                 22d  11/11/97  12/10/97
117      Final report                                             Od  1V25197  12125197                 1V5-       I:
18       Launching of bidding for works and supervision           Od   10/8198   10/98                                 08
19       Opening of proposals                                     Od  11122/98  11122198                                11/22
20       Award of contracts for works and supervision            33d  11/23/98    1/6/99
21       Signature of contracts                                  10d    1/7/99   1/20/99
22       Notification of contracts                                5d   1/21/99   1/27/99
23       Start of works                                           Od   1/28/99   1/28/99                                                                                          Zs-/28
24       Execution of works                                     194d   1129/99  10/27/99            _                         __                                          ; _
Pject  Task                            Summary                __ Rolled Up Progress
DatJe: 11/18/97                     Progress            --      ---    -Rolled Up Task 
_                ~~~~~~~Milestone                        Rolled Up MilestoneO



1997              1998                1999              2000               2
ID   Task Name                                             Duration    Start    Finish   tt2Qt3Qtr tr 1 Qtr 210tt 31Qtr 4IQtr 1itr 210tr 3Qtr 4IQrl tr2 1,3tr 3 4 11
25   IV. Regraveling of earth roads-Lot no. 3                   489d    9/1198   7/14/0 0
26       Pr6p. of 10l for engineering studies                    51d    911198  11/10/98
27       Launching of bidding for engineering studies             Od  11/10198  11V10/98                                  I
28       Opening of proposals                                     Od   1112/99   1/12199                                 lI12
29       Analysis of proposals+IDAs no-objection                 21d   1113/99   2/10199
30       Signature of contracts                                  22d   2/11/99   3)12/99
31       Notification of contracts                                5d   3/15/99   3/19/99
32       Start of engineering studies                             Od   3122/99   3/22/99
33       Submission of draft reports                              Od   5/21/99   5/21/99                                        *5/21
34       Observations by Administration and IDA                  20d   5/24/99   6/18/99                                           .
35       Final report                                             Od    7/3/99    713/99
36       Launching of bidding for works and supervision           Od    7/3/99    7/3/99                                          L    3
37       Opening of proposals                                     Id   8/18/99   8/18/99
38       Award of contracts for works and supervision            33d   8/19/99   10/4/99
39       Signature of contracts                                  10d   10/5199  10/18/99
40       Notification of contracts                                5d  10/19/99  10/25/99
41       Start of works                                           Od  10/26/99  10/26/99                                                     /2
42       Execution of works                                     187d  10/28/99   7/14/00
43   1II. Assistance to DTP                                     874d   8/29197    1/3/01 O
44       Opening of proposals                                     Od   8/29/97   8/29/97         8/ 9
45       Selection of consultant                                 24d   9/12197  10/15/97
46       Negociation of contract                                 33d  10/16/97   12/1/97
47       Signature of contract                                   lid   12/2197  12/16197
48       Short-term missions                                    780d    118/98    1/3/01                                  __I
Task                                   Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Date: 11/18/97                      Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone O



1_ __   _  |                    1997               1998              1999              2000       (      2
ID   Task Name                   _                       Duration    Start    Finish  Qtr 2I1tr3 3ttr 4t1IQtr 2IQtr 3tC14  tr 1ir 2 tr 3Qt 4   1      Wtr 2 tr3 3
49   IV. Regraveling of earth roads-Lot no. 4                 489d    611199   4113101
s0       Pr6p. of LOI for engineering studies                  Sld    611199   8i10199
51       Launching of bidding for engineering studies           Od   8/10/99   8/10/99
62       Opening of proposals                                   Od  10/12199  10/12V99                                          + 1 12
53       Analysis of proposals+IA's no-objection              21d  10113/99  11/10/99                                                 21
54       Signature of contracts                                22d  11/11/99  12/10/99
65       Notification of contracts                              5d  12113/99  12/17/99
56       Start of engineering studies                          Od  12/20/99  12/20/99
57       Submission of draft repoats                            Od   218/00   2118/00
s8       Observations by Administration and IDA                20d   221/00   3/17/00
59       Final report                                           Od    4/1/00    4/1/00                                                        /1
60       Launching of bidding for works and supervision        Od    411/00    411100                                                      i l
61       Opening of proposals                                   Id   5117/00  517/00
62      Award of contracts for works and supervision          33d   5/18/00    7/3/00                                                                                        N
63       Signature of contracts                               10d    7/4/00   7/17100
64       Notirication of contracts                             Sd   7/18/00   7/24/00
65       Start of works                                        Od   7/25/00   7/25/00                                                             W
66       Execution of works                                  187d   7/27/00   4/13101
67  II. Road maintenance strategy study                      356d    7/6/97   11/5/98             u 
68       Preparation of letter of invitation                  123d    7/6/97  12/15/97
69      IDA's no-objection                                     Sd  12/16/97  12/22/97             i.                                                                          N
70       Opening of proposals                                  Id    2/6/98    2/6/98
71       Analysis of proposals+IDA's no-objection              21d    2/9/98    3/9898
72       Signature of contracts                               22d   3/10/98    4/8/98
73       Notification of contracts                             Od    4/8/98    4/8/98 ,41/                                                                           ;
74       Caryhng out of study                                 151d    4/9/98   11//9
Project:                 ~Task                                  Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Date: 11189                        Progress                          -Rolled Up Task
Milestone                            Rolled Up MilestoneO



1997             1998              1999               2000              2
ID   Task Name                                          Duration    Start    Finish   tr 2Qtr 3Qtr 4  tr1 tr 2Qtr3Qtr4 Qtr  tr2Qtr3Qtr4  tr1 Qtr2ptr3|Qtr4 Oitr1|i
76   V. Restructuring of DTP                                 377d    711197  11/30/98
76       Preparation of leHter of invitation                  85d    7/1/97  10/15/97
77      iDAs no-objection                                      Sd  10/16/97  10/22197
78       Opening of proposals                                  Od  12/22/97  12/22/97               12122
79       Analysis of proposals+lDAs no-objection              30d  12/22/97   1/30/98
80       Signature of contract                                22d    2/298    3/3/98
81       Notification of contracts                             Od    3/4/98    3/4/98
82       Carrying out of assistance                         270ed    3/5/98  11/30/98
83   VI. Road Fund study                                     240d    9/3/97    8/4/98
84       Preparation of letter of invitation                  74d    9/3/97  12/15/97
85      IDAs no-objection                                      Sd  12/16/97  12/22/97
86       Opening of proposals                                  Od    2/5/98    2/5/98                 215
87       Analysis of proposals+IDAs no-objection              30d    /6/98   3/19/98
8t       Signature of contract                                22d   3/20/98   4/20/98
89       Start of study                                        Od   4/21198   4/21/98                  4U21
90       Draft report                                          Od   6/20/98   6/20198
91       Observations by Administration and IDA               19d   6/22/98   7/16/98                        2
92       Final report                                         13d   7/17/98    8/4/98
93   VIl. Rural roads pilot operation                        852d    7/6/97   9/29/00          m_
94       1. Maintenance strategy and design study            380d    7/6/97   129/98       _      m
95           Preparation of ToRs and LOI                     123d    7/6/97  12/15/97
96          IDAs no-objection                                  5d  12/16/97  12/22/97            H
97           Opening of proposals                              Od    2/5/98    2/5/98
98           Analysis of proposals+IDA's no-objection         22d    2/6/98    3/9/98             | 
99           Signature of contract                            22d   3/10/98    4/8/98
100          Notification of contracts                         4d    4/9/98   4/14/98
101          Carrying out of study                              Od   4/14/98   4/14/98                                                                                     4.
Task                                 Summary               _Rolled Up Progress
Project:
Date: 11118197                     Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Miloslone                            Rolled Up Mllostone 



(  I                                                 (          -                                        | | 1997  1998     1999               2000        L      2
ID  'Task Name                                             Duration    Start _Finish  Qtr2ltr3t4  trn  tr2lQtr3lQtr4Qtrl Qtr2  tr3Qtr4  tI Q t216 t3tr trtr
102           National seminar                                     id    815198    815198
103           Seminars in pilot zones                            40d    8/6198   9/30198
104           Draft implementation manual                         Od  10128/98  10)28/98                              41U28
105           Final implementation manual                         Od   1219t98   12/9/98                                  19
106       2. Environmental. feasIbility and engineering study   210d  12110198   9/30/99
107           Preparation of ToRs and LOI                        32d  12110198   1/22/99
108          IDA!s no-objection                                   5d   1t25/99   1t29199
109           Opening of proposals                                Od   3t15t99   3115/99                                          5
110           Analysis of proposals+IDAs no-objection            22d   3/16199   4/14/99
111           Signature of contract                              22d   4/15/99   5/14/99
112           Notification of contracts                           5d   5/17/99   5/21/99
113           Carrying out of study                             90ed  524199   8/22/99 
114           Draft report                                        Od   8/22/99   8122199                                         '       2'
115           Observations by Administration and IDA             21d   8/23/99   9/20/99
116           Final report                                        Od   9/30/99   9/30/99                                                  9/30
117       3. Works                                              257d   1017/99   9/29100                                               Wi-
118           Launch of bidding for works and supervision         Od   1017/99   1017/99                                                   17
119           Opening of proposals                                Od  11/22/99  11/22/99                                                     1122
120           Award of contracts for works and supervision       34d  11/23/99    117/00
121           Signature of contracts                             21d   1110100    217l00
122           Notification of contracts                           5d    2/8/0    V14/00
123           Start of works                                      Od   2/21/00  2V21100                                                       AVI'
124           Execution of works                                140d   3/20/00   9/29/00
Project:                 ~~~Task                                  Sumrnary                               Rolled Up Progress
Date: 11/18I97                      Progress          -Rollbd Up Task
:                              ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Milestone  *Rolled Up Milestone0
,   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1997              1998              1999              2000               2
ID   Task Name                                           Duration    Start    Finish  Qtr2JQtr3tr4  tri tr2lQtr3lQtr4ptr  tr2Qtr3lQtr4 QtrI tr2W30tr4 2trQtr2
125  Viil. Creaton of an equipment rental company             330d   9115197  12V18198
126      1. Comparison of scenarios                            75d   9115197  12126197
127          Draft report on analysis of scenarios              Od   9/15197   9115197
128          Govemmenrs decision on scenario adopted           31d   9/17/97  10/29197
129          Preparation of acion plan                         20d   1211197  12/26197
130      2. Appraisal of DMTP staff                           157d  10130197    6/5198
131          Preparation of ToRs and LOI                       42d  10130197  12126/97
132          IDAs no-objection                                  5d  12129/97    1/2/98
133          Opening of proposals                               Od   2/16198   2116198                 2116
134          Analysis of proposals+IDA's no-objection          22d   2/17/98   3118/98
135          Signature of contract                             22d   3/19/98   4/17/98
136          Notification of contracts                          Sd   4/20/98   4/24/98
137          Carrying out of study                             30d   4/27/98    6/5/98
138      3. Support to Implementation of the choosen option   297d  10/30/97  1V18/98           * 
139          Preparation of ToRs and LOt                       42d  10/30/97  12/26/97
140          IDA's no-objection                                 5d  12129197    1/2198
141          Opening of proposals                               Od   2116/98   2/16/98
142          Analysis of proposals+IDAs no-objection           22d   2117198   3/18/98                liH
143          Signature of contract                             22d   3/19/98   4117/98
144          Notification of contracts                          5d   4/20/98   4/24/98
145          Implementation of the company                    170d   4/27/98  12/18/98              1
_ _. ~~~~Task                                        Summary                 __Rolled Up Progress
Project:
Date: 11t/18197                    Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone        *Rolled Up Milestone O



1997               1998               1999               2000               2
ID   Task Name                                              Duration    Start    Finish  Qtr 2tr 3tr 4Qtr 1tr2Qtr3trr4   Itr 1tr2|Qtr 3|Qtr 4Q!r 1 ltr21 tr3 Qtr4 QtrI 10tr2
146       4. Expertise of equipment                              147d  10130191   5122198
147           Preparation of ToRs and LOI                         42d  10/30/97  12/26/97              i
148           tDA!s no-objection                                    5d  1 2/29197    1/2198
149           Opening of proposals                                  Od   2116/98   2/16/98
150           Analysis of proposals+IDAs. no-objection            22d   2/17/98   3/18/98                    _
151           Signature of contract                               22d   3/19198   4/17198
152           Notification of contracts                             5d   4/20/98   4/24/98
153           Carrying out of expertise                           20d   4/27/98   5/22/98
154       5. Rehabilitation of equipment                         150d   5/25198  12/18/98
155           Preparation of bidding document                      10d   5/25/98    6/5/98                    V
156           Launching of bidding                                  Od    6/5/98    6/5/98
157           Opening of bids                                       Od   7/20/98   7/20/98                           7120
158           Award of contract                                  33ed   7/21/98   8/23/98
159           Signature of contract                               22d   8/24/98   9/22/98
160           Rehabilitation of equipment                         60d   9/28/98  12/18/98
.                                                                                                                                             7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
^-
&
-                     | ~~~~          ~        ~        ~        ~~Task  ,Summary   .                    Rolled Up Pro,qress
Project                              Progress               ..Rolled Up Task
Miloslono         *Rollod Up Milostono 



1997              1998       [      1999              2000               2
ID   Task Name                                           Duration    Start    Finish  Otr 2lQtr 3IQtr 4IQtr I|Qtr 2lQtr 3jQtr4lQtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2|tr 3|Qtr4  r1t
161  IX. Restructuring of DLBTP                               440d   6126/97   2/21199                ,                                                                        1:
162      1.Definition of new statute                          300d   6126/97    871798            m
163          IDA'sno-objection                                  Od   6/26197   6/26/97    * 6/26                                                                              0%
164          Opening of proposals                               Od   2/16198   2/16/98                 2/16
165          Analysis of proposals+IDA's no-objection          22d   2/16/98   3/17/98                ti
166          Signature of contract                             23d   3/18/98   4117/98
167          Notification of contracts                          5d   4/20/98   4/24/98                   i
168          Carrying out of study                            60ed   4127/98   6/26/98
169          Draft report                                       Od   6/26/98   6/26/98                       +6/26
170          Observations by Administration and IDA            21d   6/26/98   7/24/98
171          Final report                                       Od    8/7198    8W7M98
172      2.Support to Implementation of new statute           171d   6/26/98   2121199
173          Preparation of ToRs and LOI                      30ed   6/26/98   7/26/98
174          IDAs no-objection                                  5d   7/27/98   7/31/98
175          Opening of proposals                               Od   9/14/98   9/14/98
176          Analysis of proposals+IDA's no-objection          22d   9/15/98  10/14/98
177          Signature of contract                             22d  10/15/98  11113198
178          Notification of contracts                          Sd  11/16/98  11120/98
179          Carrying out of assistance                       90ed  11/23198   2/21/99
I.-
Project:                 ~~Task                                 Summary                 __Rolled Up Progress
Date: 11118U97                     Progress                              Rolled Up Task 
. _ . ~~~Miloslono                                  Rollod Up Miloslono 



56                                                        Niger - Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Annex 7: Key Performance Indicators
1.    The following indicators will provide the basis on which IDA will decide at the mid-termn
review whether to continue the project as appraised, restructure one project's component or the
entire project, or cancel one project's component or the entire project:
Component          Key performance indicators            Value/target
Improvement of road  Creation of the public works equipment 01/01/99
maintenance        rental company with private operators
administration and    Creation of a Road Maintenance Fund  01/01/99
management         Restructuring of DTP                  01/01/99
Restructuring of the Road Laboratory  01/01/99
State's disengagement of road maintenance 100 percent starting 01/01/2000
execution, except in areas under army
control
Execution of road maintenance program  above 80 percent
Monitoring of network condition       one traffic survey during 7 days in 1998, two
traffic surveys during four days after 1998,
measure of roughness on the paved network
and visual survey on the unpaved network
every year
Regraveling of earth Discounted value at 12 percent of benefits Greater than 0
roads              for civil works included in the project
Performance indicator                    1997        1998         1999        2000         2001
Percentage of routine maintenance         25          50           75          100          100
contracted out
Average quality mark of the paved network  11.18     11.47        11.61       10.80        13.51
Average roughness of the paved network   5.12        4.98         5.02         5.25        5.31
Percentage   of  paved  roads  with      24.4        30.3         38.1        29.2         27.8
AADT>250veh/day and quality mark>12
Average roughness of the earth network   10.8         11.8        12.8         12.7        13.2
Percentage   of  earth  roads  with      21.7        35.1         52.6         52.6        47.7
AADT>SOveh/day and quality mark >12
Average roughness of the rural network   11.7        12.5         12.7         12.5        12.7
Percentage   of  rural  roads   with     22.7        28.9         38.6        37.0         44.1
AADT>25veh/day and quality mark >12
Index of VOC on paved roads              100          97           97          98           99
Index of VOC on earth roads              100          93           89          89           89
Index of VOC on rural roads              100          97           94          94           94
AADT: Average annual daily traffic in vehicle per day; VOC: Vehicle operating costs
2.     The following indicators will characterize progress in project execution, project activities
and outputs:
(a)    Road Maintenance: Average overrun on cost of road maintenance contracts and
average delays in contract execution. Average time of payment of the contractors.



Annex 7                                                                         57
Ratio of national enterprises contracted out. Kilometers of roads actually regraveled
compared to estimation. Works cost compared to estimation at appraisal.
(b)   Road Transport: Evolution of vehicles' age and condition. Axle loads of trucks.
Statistics on road accidents.
(c)   Project implementation: Average time between launching of bids and bid opening
(for engineering studies and for works contracts). Average time between bid
opening and awards of studies or contracts. Average time between award and
signing of contracts (studies and works). Ratio of actual disbursements versus
disbursements estimated at appraisal.
(d)   Capacity building: Ratio of local and regional consulting firms registered on short
list. Ratio of local and regional awarded consulting firm. Number of people trained.
3.    The following indicators will characterize sector evolution during project execution:
(a)   Road maintenance: Amount of road maintenance budget. Resources allocated to the
road sector in the Public Investment Program (PIP). Budget and PIP execution
ratios. Evolution of traffic on roads maintained under the project. Amount and
number of road maintenance contracts awarded with national budget financing.
Percentage of budget allocated to contracts. Arrears on contracts financed by the
Road Fund.
(b)   Transport: Evolution of road transport tariffs. Restructuring of SNTN completed.
Road tolls in service between Cotonou and Parakou. OCBN's monopoly abolished.
Statistics on international transport.



58                                                 Niger - Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Annex 8: Supervision Plan
Approximate  Activity                                 Skills requirements;    Staff-weeks
date
03/98        Project launch workshop                  Task team leader      2
a) presentation of the project implementation   Highway engineer  2
plan to the executing agencies, the private  Procurement specialist  1
sector, and the central government      Disbursement specialist I
b) training on procurement and disbursement  Team member in    I
procedures                              Resident Mission
06/98        Supervision mission                      Task team leader      2
a) progress in project implementation   Highway engineer       1
b) review of audit reports and agree on  Financial analyst     1
actions                                 Team member in         1
Resident Mission
03/99        Supervision mission                      Task team leader      2
03/00        a) progress in project implementation    Highway engineer      1
03/01        b) review of procurement, disbursements, and  Team member in   1
03/02        statement of expenses                    Resident Mission
11/98        Major supervision mission                Task team leader      2
11/00        a) progress in project implementation, identify Highway engineer  2
11/01        issues and agree on actions              Environmental         1
11/02        b) contractors' and consultants' performance   specialist
c) review of training activities        Resident               0.5
d) monitoring of performance indicators  Representative
e) monitoring of environmental impact   Team member in         1
f) compliance with legal agreements     Resident Mission
g) compliance with letter of sector policy
06/99        Supervision mission                      Task team leader      2
06/00        a) progress in project implementation    Highway engineer      1
06/01        b) review of procurement, disbursements, and  Financial analyst  1
06/02        statement of expenses                    Team member in        1
c) review of audit reports              Resident Mission



Annex 8                                                                             S9
Approximate  Activity                                Skills requirements   Staff-weeks
date
11/99        Mid-term review                         Task team leader     2
a) progress in project implementation, identify Highway engineer  2
issues and agree on actions            Environmental         2
b) contractors' and consultants' performance  specialist
c) review of training activities       Resident              0.5
d) monitoring of performance indicators  Representative
e) monitoring of environmental impact  Team member in        1
f) compliance with legal agreements    Resident Mission
g) compliance with letter of sector policy
01/03        ICR mission                             Task team leader      1
Highway engineer     1
Financial analyst    1
Environmental        1
specialist
Economist            I
Team member in       1
Resident Mission



60                                    Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Annex 9: Summary of Environmental Assessment of the Road Sector and Earth
Regraveling Works financed under the Project
1.    The methodology utilized to conduct the environmental assessment was based on the
World Bank Operational Directives 4.01, "Environmental Assessment" and the related
Operational policy 4.04, "Natural Habitats"; and on the legislation drafted by Niger to
institutionalize environmental studies. The environmental assessment was carried out for 20
roads totaling 1751.5km, which at the time of the assessment, had the potential to be proposed to.
IDA financing. 13 roads totaling 1,060km have been eventually retained for IDA financing (see
list in table 7 of Chapter I-Benefits in the main text of the SAR).
2.    Environmental Impact. In general, the adverse environmental impact of the works on
most of the proposed roads is expected to be limited for the following reasons:
(a)   The works only involve regraveling the lateritic road surface keeping the existing
roadbase.
(b)   No new alignment will be included.
(c)   The improvement of the road conditions is not expected to change the traffic
patterns to any large extent and would therefore not entail significant increase of
new developments with subsequent secondary environmental impacts.
3.    Among the 20 roads, four will merit special considerations:
(a)   Road Margou-Gaya: The southern part of the road is passing through the Partial
Reserve of Dosso. This reserve was created as a buffer for the W National park,
which is located on the opposite side of the river Niger. During a few months of
the year, when the water level of the river is low, park animals occasionally cross
over to feed in the reserve. A number of protected trees are also found in the area.
(b)   Road Margou-Ounditan: The road serves the Dallol Bosso area, which is home of
the last giraffes remaining in West Africa and is of considerable interest to
biodiversity conservation. It is presently unprotected. Most of the area is
cultivated or used as pastoral land. The giraffes are co-existing with the local
population and domestic animals. The giraffes are a recognized tourism attraction.
Thus, local traffic is expected to grow.
(c)   Road Madaoua-Keita-RN25 PK22: The topography of the Keita region is
characterized by hilly terrain with steep slopes. Thus the risk of erosion is
particularly high in connection with the road works.
(d)   Road Fonelo-Yatakala: The road is located in a region which contains areas with
only scattered settlements not yet opened to development. The whole region is
subject to a larger environmental impact assessment triggered by a request from
the mining industry to the Government and European Union for the construction



Annex 9                                                                       61
of access roads to future potential mining sites. However, the road itself does not
open up any new areas to settlements and development.
4.    Social Impact. Current road conditions have not caused any limitation in the
transportation of goods and people. Regraveling of the surface is therefore not expected to
influence traffic intensity and encourage a significant increase in new developments. Improved
roads may invite increased speed of vehicles and thereby increase safety threat to pedestrians or
non-motorized vehicles.
5.    Mitigation Measures.
(a)   Guidelines on environmental aspects of road maintenance: It is recommended that
environmental guidance provided in the report "Road Maintenance and the
Environment" prepared under the Sub-saharan Africa Transport Program, a World
Bank/Economic Commission for Africa initiative, be adopted as a framework for
integrated management of road maintenance in Niger and serve as a practical
guide to the technical studies in the planning of the regraveling of each road
proposed under the project.
(b)   Site-specific environmental studies: For each individual road, a detailed site-
specific environmental study should be carried out at the planning stage and a set
of mitigation measures should be incorporated into the construction work plan.
The terns of reference of these studies are available in the project files.
(c)   Roads with special considerations:
(i)   Roads Margou-Gaya and Margou-Ounditan: A separate environmental
analysis should be carried out prior to the technical studies of project
execution. The analysis should pay particular attention to the biodiversity
values of the Dosso partial reserve and giraffe biotops along the two roads.
It should identify potential harmful effects on the natural fauna and flora.
It should also seek to identify opportunities for the project to contribute to
improving the current environmental conditions. Local people should be
consulted in order to ensure sustainable results.
(ii)   Road Madaoua-Keita-RN25 PK22: The site-specific environmental study
should pay particular attention to the high risk of erosion, recommend
measures to minimize adverse environmental impact, and to the benefit of
both the road and the surrounding environment, restore currently degraded
areas influenced by the road.
(iii)  Road Fonelo-Yatakala: The site-specific environmental study should
analyze and take into account any recommendations which concern the
area influenced by the road, resulting of the environmental impact
assessment of proposed mining access roads in the region, being carried
out with European Union financing.



62                                    Niger - Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
(d)   Participation by local people: Local people should be given the opportunity to
participate and influence decision-making, for example, to help finding the most
appropriate solutions for managing run off water near the settlements.
5.    Environmental Management and Training. It is recommended that an environmental
unit be established within the Department of Highway in the Ministry of equipment and
Infrastructure. The unit would be responsible for environmental management and impact
assessment of road sector activities. The unit should initially consist of two specialists in the
following fields: ecology and natural resource management; and hydro-geology, soil sciences
and road engineering. Terms of reference of the unit are available in the project files. The budget
for the establishment of the unit, including operating costs, equipment, training and technical
assistance, estimated at CFAF59 million was included in the project costs. Additional training in
environment in the road sector will be provided to the other local concerned institutions. Training
costs were included in the project cost.



Annex 10                                                                 63
Annex 10: Environmental Assessment of the Regraveling of the road Gaya-
Margou-Ounditan
1.    Project Background. The road consists of two sections: Gaya-Margou (190.5km)
built in 1982-1984 and Margou-Ounditan (99km) built in 1982-1983. The road is
currently in poor condition with numerous potholes and a less-than-5cm surface layer.
The average annual daily traffic is around 55 vehicles per day on both sections. Proposed
works consist in the regraveling of the road (increase of the surface layer thickness to 15
cm), local rehabilitation of the base course, cleaning of culverts and ditches and signaling.
No new alignment is expected unless local and minor to improve drainage.
2.    Environmental Conditions. The zone of influence of the road includes several
environmentally sensitive areas:
(a)   The Dollol Bosso area which is home of the last giraffes remaining in
West Africa. The area is unprotected. Most of the area is cultivated or used
as pastoral land. The giraffes are co-existing with the local population and
domestic animals. The giraffes are a recognized tourist attraction. The
Government has trained about twenty official guides from the nearby
villages in an effort to draw upon wildlife tourism as a source of local
income, at the same time strengthening the awareness and protection of
wildlife. The Fakara-Boboye protected forest, which is of interest to
biodiversity conservation, is also located in the area.
(b)   With the Fakara-Boboye forest, the classified forests of Gorou-Bassounga
and Koulou are the last remaining homes for wildlife in the zone of
influence of the roads.
(c)   Along the Niger river, several ponds and water holes are used by wildlife.
Swamps and flooded areas are also home of several wildlife species.
(d)   Demographic pressure is important with about 20 villages or settlements
located along the road. Conflicts for land use have broken out almost
every year between farmers and livestock breeders.
3.    Environmental Impacts. Positive and negative impacts have been identified:
(a)   Positive impacts: There is a strong potential for development of
ecotourism mostly to visit the giraffes but also areas along the Niger river.
Export of agricultural products will be facilitated. This would result in job
creation and increase of revenues for the local population. The project also
gives the opportunity to improve environmental conditions of wildlife
(protection of giraffes against road accidents, creation of new water holes).
(b)   Negative impacts: The most specific negative impacts are: (i) In the short
term, the activities around work facilities and the roadworks can disturb



64                                       Niger - Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
the life conditions of the giraffes making them move temporarily to new
areas. Use of some quarries would have a similar impact on the wildlife in
other areas along the road. Poaching is a risk. Borrowing of materials in
the river near the Ouna village would be a threat for houses and fruit trees
located near the river. (ii) In the longer term, the use of seven quarries may
accelerate sand encroachement of the Dallol Bosso river. Better transport
conditions will make firewood and doum palmtree more competitive and
may cause their overexploitation. Accelerate increase of population along
the road may result in increased hunting and create a threat for the local
wildlife, in increased consumption of firewood and cause deforestation, in
increased demographic pressure and more conflicts between farmers and
livestock breeders.
4.    Mitigation Measures. The following measures have been defined:
(a)   Work facilities will be located at more than 3km from villages and 5 km
from protected and classified forests along the road.
(b)   Protected trees and the bigger trees will be tagged. Should they need to be
cut, an authorization will be sought from the Department of Environment
in the Ministry of Environment.
(c)   Unless authorized by the Department of Environment on the basis of
conditions specific to each forest, borrowing of materials will be forbidden
in the three forests along the road. The quarry located near the Kodo forest
used by the giraffes during the rain season will be closed during this
season.
(d)   Signaling will urge road users to reduce speed and exert caution in areas
inhabited by the giraffes. Other actions to rehabilitate the habitat of the
giraffes will be coordinated with an ongoing project aimed at the local
population to prevent deforestation and clearing of land.
(e)   Several measures to protect the road against erosion have been identified
at specific locations (plantation of trees, rock fills).
(f)   Measures have been defined to restore quarries after works are completed.
(g)   The populations along the road will be sensitized to increase awareness on
environmental issues and environmental protection. A framework
involving the populations, the Public Works Department, the Department
of environment and other partners was established to monitor the
implementation of the measures during the execution of the works as well
as to follow up on the environmental impact of the works after their
completion.



Annex 10                                                              65
5.    Costs. The total cost of the mitigation measures is estimated at CFAF34.3
million. Details are presented in the following tables.
Type of measure                         Cost (FCFA)
Protection against erosion                   9,704,000
Restoration of quarries and borrowing pits  21,458,000
Protection of giraffes' habitat              3,000,000
Accompanying measures including              7,000,000
sensitization of population
Total                                       34,350,200
The detailed engineering of technical measures will be included in the technical
studies. The administrative cost to cover the monitoring of the detailed engineering
studies, the execution of the works and the environmental impact of the works after their
completion is included in the operating costs of the environmental unit in the Department
of Public Works (Annex 5).



66                                      Niger - *nfrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Annex 11 : Environmental Assessment of Road Works on the Rural Road Network
1.    Project Background. The rural road network totals 1,246 km, about 9 percent of the
entire road network. To open access to several landlocked areas in the country, the Government
has identified about 2,200 km of new rural roads. A map with an indicative laying out of the new
rural roads is available in the project files. The geographical distribution of existing and
projected rural roads is presented in the following table. The Government has requested to
include in the project proposed to IDA the financing of a pilot operation to establish a new
strategy aiming at sustaining rural road maintenance.
Department  Existing rural  Proposed rural
roads (kIn)    roads (km)
Agadez                 0            299
Diffa                  0            138
Dosso                171            354
Maradi               300            317
Tahoua               206            220
Tillaberi            381            435
Zinder               188            451
Total               1,246         2,214
2.    Environmental Conditions. An environmental assessment was carried out to identify
environmental issues which might result from the construction of new roads, to provide criteria
to prioritize these issues and help in the choice of roads to be included in the project, and to
prepare a mitigation plan to take into account environmental concerns in the preparation and
implementation of the works to be executed. Maps have been prepared to measure the primary
ecological potentiality in the zone of influence of each rural road. Field trips covenng seen road
sectors out of ten have been carried out to provide the field experience necessary to complement
the analytical works on the maps.
3.    Environmental Risks. A multi-criteria analysis has been used to evaluate the
environmental risks for each of the 39 roads among which the roads would be chosen for the
pilot operation. Eight most important risks have been identified: erosion by water; impacts
resulting of the construction due to the geomorphology along the road; sand encroachment; use
of local materials; bushfire; impact on the biodiversity; deforestation; and land use. The
following table provides the rating measuring the environmental risk, rating 1 being the lowest
risk, rating 3 being the highest. The result of the analysis classifies 16 roads (578 km) with a low
environmental risk; 15 roads (1,190 kmi) with a medium environmental risk; and 9 roads (350
kin) with a high environmental risk.



Annex 11                                                                                                                  67
Road                        Water    Geo        Sand      Bush    Local    Bio-          Defore   Land    Others       Rating
erosion    morphol  encroa    fire     ma-       diversity    station   use
ogy       chment             terials
Tchiroz6rine-Tafadek                  3         2                   1        2(x)        x                              I
Agadez-EI Meki              2         3         1                   1        2(x)                                      2
Agadez-Tabelot              2         3         1                   1        2(x)                                      2
Ekaouel-RTA                 1                   3                   3        2(x)                          Wild life    I
reserve
Marandet-RTA                1         2         3                   3        2(x)                          Archeolog   3
ical site
N'Guigmi-Bosso              3         2         3                   3        2                                          3
Djajiri-Ch6ri                         2         3                   3        2                                          1
Chetimari-Issari                      2         3                   3        3                                         2
Doutchi-Kourdoula           2         1                    1                 2                                         2
Rijia Samna-Toudou N'Jaka   2                              2                 2                                          2
Tibiri-Maikalgo-Tombo                                      1                 3                                          1
Dogonkiria-Chanyassou-      3                              1                 2                                         2
Gu6za
Koygolo-Sokorbe             I         1                    1                 3                                          1
Boureimi-Fadama-A.          I         1                    2                 2                                          1
Marafa
Tessaoua-Ourofane-Belb6dji                      1          2       2         2                     x                    I
Dan Issa-Tapkin Guiwa       I                              I        I        I           x         x                    I
Guidan Sori-Guidan Roumji  3                               1                 1           x         x                   2
Chadakori-Malki                                            I        I        I                     x                   I
Mayahi-Tessaoua                                            1       2         2                                         1
Maraka-Angoual Roumji       2                              2                 1           x         x                   2
Tama-Madarounfa             3         2                            2         2           x         x                   3
Bouza-Madetta               1         2                                      2                                          1
Laba-Karofine               2         2                                      2                                         2
Madaoua-Karofane            3         2                    1                 1                                         2
Tama-Galmi-Guidan           3         3                    1                 1                     x                   2
Albakari
Badaguichiri-Guidan Adbou   2         3                    1                 1                                         2
Torodi-Dagona               3         2                   2                  1                             See EIS     2
Liptako
Filingu6-Chical                       I         1          2                 3                     x                   I
BalI1 Koira-Dolbel-Boukari   1                  2                  2         2                             See Eis      I
Koira                                                                                                      Liptako
Ayorou-In Ates              3         3         3          2                 3                                         3
Doulsou-Frontiere Burkina    3        2         1         2                  3                                         3
D6senclavement zones        3         2                   2                  2                             See EIS     3
aurifires                                                                                                  Liptako
Gothtye-M6hana              3         2                    2                 3                                         3
Doungou village-Doungou               2                    1       2         3                                         1
cuvette
Belb6dji-Batt                                   2         3        3         2                                          1
Mirria-Zermou-Damagaram    I                    1         2                  2           x         x                    I
Takaya
,Gouchi-Gassafa                        2         3         1        3         3                                         3
Dungass-Gamdou-Gour6                            3          2       3         3                                         2
Gassafa-Apk6-Guidiguir                2         3          1       3         3                                         3
Soubdou-Kalgu6ri                      2         2          1       3                                                   2
(x) Information on biodiversity is incomplete.
4.       Mitigation  Plan. A   plan  has  been  established  to  take  into  account environmental
concerns in the design, execution and operation of road works. The plan involves the
beneficiaries, the local institutions responsible for the environment (CNEDD, DE in MHE), the
Department of Public Works in MEI, the consulting firms and the contractors. The procedure
defines the role of each participant. A group comprising the Department of Public Works and the



68                                      Niger - lnfrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Department of Environment will coordinate the implementation of the plan. Advisory services to
the group will be provided by technical assistance financed under the project. The cost to cover
the operating costs of the coordination group including the monitoring of the detailed
engineering studies, the execution of the works and the environmental impact of the works after
their completion is included in the operating costs of the environmental unit in the Department of
Public Works and will be covered by the project (Annex 5).



69                                                     Niger - Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Annex 12: Summary Project Environmental Mitigation Plan
Timetable                  Activity                  Cost (US$)           Agency
12/96      Enviromnental impact study of the earth road   13,700           MEI
regraveling program
01/10/97    Law to institutionnalize environmental studies          Ministry of Hydraulics
for economic development projects                       and Environment (MIE)
05/05/97    Creation of the environmental unit in the               Ministry of Equipment
Department of Public Works (DTP)                        and Infrastructure (MEI)
05/29/97    Designation in MHIE of counterpart staff to the                MHE
environmental unit in DTP
05/97      Creation of the bureau for environmental                        MmE
assessments and impact studies (BEEEI)
06/04/97    Environmental impact study of the rural road   32,500           MEI
network
06/04/97    Environmental impact assessement of the         8,000          MEI
works on the roads Gaya-Margou and Margou-
Ounditan
06/27/97    Designation of staff in the environmental unit                 MEI
in DTP
06/97      Designation of staff in BEEEI                                   MHE
1997-1998  Preparation of legal documents to implement                  MHE, MEI
the 1997 law on environmental studies and
ensuring consistency between these documents
and those defining responsibilities of the
environmental unit in DTP
1998       Training on environmental impact studies                  National Council of
Environment for a
Sustainable Development
(CNEDD), MHE
1998-2001  Support to the environmental unit in DTP      186,000           MEI
(training, operating costs, technical assistance)
1998-2001  Support to CNEDD                              183,000          CNEDD
1998-2001  Support to BEEEI                               80,000           MIE
1997-2000  Site-specific environmental studies of works   60,000           MEI
included in the project
1998-2001  Implementation of measures to protect the    1,200,000          MEI
environment as defined in works contracts



70                                                   Niger - Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Annex 13: Economic Analysis
1.    The economic analysis was carried out using the HDM Model set up by the World Bank.
For each year of the economic analysis period, the model calculates the road deterioration due to
the traffic and the maintenance strategy applied to the road, the cost of the maintenance, and the
vehicle operating costs based on the new road condition. The model compares the total costs,
including rehabilitation costs, maintenance costs and vehicle operating costs, in the with- and
without-project scenarios. The maintenance strategies applied in the without- and with-project
scenarios and unit maintenance costs are presented in table 1. Table 2 presents key parameters of
the economic analysis and provides the Economic Rate of Return and the Net Present Value for
each road in the program. Table 3 presents the results of the economic analysis of technical
alternatives for roads included in the program proposed to IDA financing.
Table 1: Road Maintenance Strategies and Unit Costs
Type of maintenance  Without project  With project                   Unit costs
Grading           One per year        One per 8,000 vehicles         CFA28,600 per kmn
Patching          28 cubic meters per    None                        CFA8,388 per m3
kilometer per year
Regraveling       None                When base course is less than 5cm  CFA8,095 per m3
and not less than every 12 years
Routine maintenance  Every year       every year                      CFA192,500 per km



Annex 13                                                                                                     71
Table 2: Key Parameters and Results of the Economic Analysis
15 cm regraveling with cost of environmental measures
Road                       Length    Residual    Traffilc   Percent    Economic Rate    Net Present Value
(kn)     materials   (AADT)   Heavy       of Return (%/o)    discounted at 12%
(cm)                Traffic                       (CFA million)
Tebaram-Badagachiri         170.5        7         108         5            58               4,620
Dogondoutchi-Dogonkiria     73.5         3         166        11            148              4,320
RNIE-Komaka                 55.5         6         214        19           >200              4,180
Loga-Dogondoutchi           91.1        16         139        12            95               3,990
Keita-RN25 PK22             53.0        12         131        17            90               2,180
Foneko-Yatakala             92.6         8          94        21            47               1,480
RN 7 PK 86.6 -Boureimi      109.3        8          75        28            34               1,400
Tchadaoua-Mayahi            53.4         8         104        47            68               1,320
Baleyara-Banibangou         148.3        5          82        20            31               1,290
Madoua-Keita                114.6       13          70        13            28               1,090
Tinkim-Nigeria              76.5        12          77        27           >200              1,080
RN 25 PK 73-                76.9        11          76        28           >200               870
Tchintabaraden
Margou-Gaya                 179.5        7          56        20            20                770
Dakoro-Belbeji              148.0       14          60        33            21                660
Gazoua-Nigeria              66.9         6          76        50            30                600
Margou-Ounditan (RN25)      110.0        9          53        15            23                530
Magaria-Nigeria             61.2        13          78         8            28                500
Malaza est-Dabnou           25.5        13          83        16            46                440
Matameye-Kafimbaka          37.6         8          86        10            31                350
Bonkoukou-Chyniassou        46.0         9          67        4             34                310
Baleyara-Loga               45.7         8          56        20            22                240
Matmeye-Tarwani             24.0        14          65        23            21                110
Gaya-Tara                    7.0        11          54        10            32                30
Korgom (RN20)-Matameye      30.0         4          46        13            3                 -80
Tera-Foneko                 23.4         5          43        26            0                -100
Niamey-Ouallam              95.0         9          37        32             3               -180
Filingue-Talcho             24.4         1          29        69            <0               -240
Taicho-Abala                39.6         1          16        25            <0               -480
RNII PK7-Kelle              145.0       10          28        13            2                -500
Ouallam-Banibangou          144.5       13          14        21            <0              -1,310
AADT: Average Annual Daily Traffic. Roughness is estimated by the HDM model.



72                                                            Niger - Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
Table 3: Study of alternatives
Benefits discounted at 12 percent (CFAF million)
Road                           Base          10cm          20 cm      Regraveling in   Pavement of
scenario    regraveling    regraveling      2000         one road
15cm
RNle-Komaka                    4,230         4,370         4,220          3,500          2,720
Dogondoutchi-Dogonkiria        4,390         4,430         4,380          3,810          4,390
Keita-RN25 PK 22               2,220         2,220         2,210          1,910          2,220
Loga-Dogondoutchi              4,060         4,000         3,930          3,450          4,060
Tchadaoua-Mayahi               1,360         1,330         1,300          1,110          1,360
Malaza est-Dabnou               460          460            460            400            460
Tebaram-Badagachiri            4,730         4,540         4,500          4,030          4,730
Foneko-Yatakala                1,540         1,530         1,510          1,210
RN 25 PK 73- Tchintabaraden    900           880            900            350
Tinldm-Nigeria                 1,130         1,130         1,140           670
RN 7 PK 86.6 -Boureimi         1,480         1,510         1,460          1,280
Gazoua-Nigeria                 660           670            650            510
Madoua-Keita                   1,170         1,160         1,130          1,010
TOTAL                         28,330        28,230        27,790         23,240         19,940
For this comparison, the cost of environmental measures was not included.
Economic Rates of Return (percent)
Road                           Base         10 cm          20 cm         Regraveling in   Pavement
scenario    regraveling    regraveling         2000        of one road
RNle-Komaka                    >200         >200           >200             >200             18
Dogondoutchi-Dogonkiria        161          >200            123             >200            161
Keita-RN25 PK 22                96           128            77               140             96
Loga-Dogondoutchi              102           139            80               147            102
Tchadaoua-Mayahi                73           96             58               88              73
Malaza est-Dabnou               49           57             41               57              49
Tebaram-Badagachiri             62           75             51               77              62
Foneko-Yatakala                 50           63             41               56              50
RN 25 PK 73- Tchintabaraden    >200         >200           >200              38            >200
Tinkim-Nigeria                 >200         >200           >200              41            >200
RN 7 PK 86.6 -Boureimi          35           43             30               41              35
Gazoua-Nigeria                  31           38             27               33              31
Madoua-Keita                    30           33             26               33              30
4.      Table 6 presents sensitivity studies. The first study adds the cost of enviromnental measures
to the base case estimated at about 5 percent of the cost of works. The second study is based on a
shadow exchange rate (SER) assuming a premium on foreign exchange of about seven percent.
Details for the calculation of the SER during the 1998-200 period are given in table 4. The
premium on foreign exchange is assumed to remain equal to 7 percent afterwards. The third study
is based on shadow pricing of salaries assuming a 50 percent reduction of the amount of salaries in
the costs of works, maintenance and vehicle operation. The percentage of salaries in the cost of
works is indicated in table 5. It is the same in the cost of road maintenance and is considered
negligible in vehicle operating costs. The fourth study applies both shadow  exchange rate and
shadow price on salaries. Studies number 2, 3 and 4 include the cost of environmental measures.



Annex 13                                                                                            73
Table 4: Shadow Exchange Rate
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999   2000
Market exchange rate (CFAF/US$)   499.00  512.00  572.00  578.00  582.00  586.00
Exports, FOB (CFAF million)
Imports, CIF (CFAF million)       139.90  143.40  158.80  168.80  176.60  187.00
Import duties (CFAF billion)      174.90  175.20  229.00  228.30  217.50  227.50
Export duties (CFAF billion)       24.70   25.90   39.04   40.43   40.81   41.50
Tax revenue from international trade    4.60   11.00   11.66   12.08   12.19   12.40
(CFAF billion)                    29.30   36.90   50.70   52.50   53.00   53.90
Effective exchange rates:
for exports              482.59  472.73  530.00  536.65  541.83  547.15
for imports               569.47  587.69  669.51  680.35  691.20  692.90
Shadow exchange rate (CFAF/US$)  530.86  535.94  612.38  619.26  624.27  627.15
Premium on foreign exchange (%)     6.39    4.68    7.06    7.14    7.26    7.02
Table 5: Distribution of unit costs in currencies
Component                   Foreign currencies    Local currencies      Taxes              Total
Overhead costs                            80                  2                  18                 10
Salaries                                  32                 64                   4                 10
Materials and other inputs                63                 24                  14                 20
Amortization                              91                  6                   3                 60
Total                                     78                  15                  7                100
Table 6: Sensitivity studies
Base scenario:    Environment   Environment and  Environment and   Environment,
15 cm without                shadow exchange  shadow price on  shadow exchange
cost of                         rate          salaries    rate and shadow
environmental                                                price on salaries
measures
Road                     Rate of NPV at Rate of NPV at Rate of NPV at Rate of NPV at Rate of NPV at
Return   12%   Retun   12%   Retum   12%   Retum   12%   Retum   12%
RNIE-Komnaka               >200   4,230   >200   4,180   >200  4,420   >200   4,240   >200   4,490
Dogondoutchi-Dogonkiria     161   4,390    148   4,320    146  4,570    164    4,40    161    4,65
Keita-RN25 PK 22             97   2,220     90   2,180      89  2,300      98   2,220     96   2,350
Loga-Dogondoutchi           102   4,050     95   3,990      95  4,230    104   4,060    102   4,300
Tchadaoua-Mayahi             73   1,360     68   1,320      68  1,400      74   1,370     73   1,440
Malaza est-Dabnou            49    460      46    440       46   470       49    460      49    490
Tebaram-Badagachiri          62   4,730     58   4,620      58  4,880      63   4,750     62   5,010
Foneko-Yatakala              51   1,540     47   1,480      47  1,560      51   1,550     51   1,630
RN 25 PK 73-               >200    900   >200    870   >200    910   >200    910   >200    950
Tchintabaraden
Tinldn-Nigeria             >200   1,120   >200   1,080   >200  1,140   >200   1,130   >200   1,190
RN 7 PK 86.6 -Boureimi       36   1,480     34   1,400      33  1,480      36   1,480     36   1,560
Gazoua-Nigeria               32    660      30    600       29    630      32    660      32    690
Madoua-Keita                 30   1,170     28   1,090      28  1,150      30   1,180     30   1,230
NPV: Net Present Value in CFAF million



Annex 14                                                                      74
Annex 14: Documents available in the project files
Resume de trois etudes d'impact sur l'environnement des travaux de rechargement et /ou de
construction des routes en terre et plan consolide de limitation des impacts sur 1'environnement.
Bureau d'etudes geologiques et hydrogeologiques du Sahel. July 1997.
Etude environnementale prealable pour 40 nouvelles routes rurales. M. Erbetta. Environnement
Conseil. May 1997.
Environmental impact study. Road rehabilitation component. Infrastructure rehabilitation
Project. I. Bertilsson. December 1996.
Programme des investissements de l'Etat 1997-1999 et budget d'investissement 1997. Ministry
of Economy, Finance and Planning. October 1996.
A resilient people in a harsh environment. Niger poverty assessment. June 28, 1996. World
Bank. Report No. 15344-NIR.
Etude en vue de la refonte de la fiscalite routiere. Ministry of trade, transport and tourism.
Beauvais consultants. September 1992.
Transport Sector Project. Project Completion Report. World Bank. Report No. 13773. December
9, 1994.
Transportation study of agro-pastoral products. USAID. Development Alternatives, Inc. October
1993.
Bulletin mensuel d'information de recherche et de statistiques. Conseil nigerien des utilisateurs
de transports publics. December 1995.
Analyse du secteur routier. Rapport de mission. A. Baltaggi. ETAU. August 1995.
Manuel d'execution du projet. Projet de rehabilitation des infrastructures. ETAU. February 1997
Feeder Roads Project. Project Completion report. World Bank. Report No. 7739. April 1989.
Etude d'impact sur l'environnement du projet de rechargement des routes 97 (Gaya-Margou) et
89 (Margou-Ounditan). Bureau d'etudes g6ologiques et hydrogeologiques du Sahel. June 1997.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 28605
0                  ~~~~~~~~2'                  4IO-                                                                                                         12                         1                         '1~6
NIGER           ALGERIA0G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7QZ ~~~~~A                              G      A      D      E     Z
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE                                              ---
REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                              ABI                                                                          bRilmo
ROAD NETWORK
PROJECT ROADS:
EARTH ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM                                                               . k                                                och'  I 
18'                  ROAD NETWORK:                            f                                                                                                       F-/i 'o   Tfd '  \F
-   PAVED EOADS         ROASd. .k
EARTH ROADS AND FEEDERR R\O
SIMPLE TRACKS                          j       j    \-                                        EMLi M i o 
:-<. RIVERS                                                                                     TA   Rr,                                                   |
4    AIRPORTS                                f                    0., I                        t-goo Io-
SELECTED TOWNS                              ''                                 Assoous- Z -                         I I
   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                     jIN-
NATIONAL CAPITAL                       ,            -              .                                                                                                                               /
16             . ---- DEPARTMENT BOLNDARIES               .                       Shin T      4                                                                                                                  /         C  H A  D
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES             /          T                           o                            . '.'   -                                                DIF                          /                       1
-16                                            t                        '= TAHO)UA                                                                      Thn===ee #.J - DIFFAz/C  H A  D 1
M     A      L    I                                                 . Al i          Aderbisino                                                                                        /     0      D       D
3>   .      Anderamboukon<i>$OEkr=,'vblkG'3                                                  >                                                                                                    50    10 150   200
Aroorombookone ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        I ~~~~~~KILOMETERS
'7-1.1 k,,oj0---- --                                                                             3                                                                                       / 
Ayoo              Ro  Bni                    Soloo      TOOO           1                                           .t                                         I ,  '   ,pjrrdTakdhyrk|
A      M-ngol- ---                                                                              BToN'DIomme 0 ordo,doooo
B d                                                                                                1 d                Z N    D E Ri loo-ner o.o|
oidon              odoooo                                                                                                       ,                    MopK=mb=  or U1..lo ,_0. Wo d   -,-
la     T-Iodni       M               .Ic6        I.Ie.D ohron
".F      OlHe KnroTba.    /e..0                                           '.          ooi      MOo0000           M       D.. b ...dKo11onNo                                          rI 
De  Boobo       Na                 000 ob-h                                                                                                                                                                            LIR=TA,6
N     ALGERIA              LIB
T4rodi \S    oI      DoC
TomoL  Do                     > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tik.MALI                                                                                              L0Anoool.
-K  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 0G.EoR
B URIK INA                                                                                                                                                                                   AURPAT A\,              N.oo, ~
I  V   Kr1A'~~?4i~~)  rN-.,  / CENTRAL
B E N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N  ~0'8                                                                   T0CAMERCON f AFRCAN.
MARCH 1997



