Report No. PIC4674
Project Name                   Niger-Transport Infrastucture ...
Rehabilitation Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Urban Transport
Project ID                     NEPA35608
Borrower                       Republic of Niger
Implementing                   Prime Ministry
Agency                         Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure
Ministry of Transport
Environment Category           A
Date this PID Prepared         February 1997
Projected Appraisal Date       April 1997
Projected Board Date           May 1997
1.   Country Background. Niger is one of the poorest countries in the
world with a per capita GDP of US$176 in 1994 and social indicators
which are among the lowest in the Sahelian countries. Its rapidly
growing population (8.9 million in 1994 with a 3.3% growth rate) is
about half under 15 year old and 80% rural.   Long dominated by an
inefficient public sector, the formal economy depends on uranium, a
primary commodity with poor prospects. Other source of wealth consist of
subsistence agriculture and livestock. The Government has taken initial
steps to improve economic management and to maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework, conducive to private sector activity. In
particular, it has taken full advantage of the devaluation of the CFA
franc in early 1994 to restore competitiveness, provide a policy
environment favorable to the private sector, and redirect public
resources toward human resource development, infrastructure maintenance,
and the provision of efficient services to support agriculture and
preserve the fragile natural resource base. In reaction to a military
takeover in January 1996, several donors have suspended aid causing
uncertainty for the budget situation and medium term prospects. The
Government has adopted in early 1996 a macro-economic program supported
by an ESAF arrangement with the IMF. Government continued action on key
reforms, the rapid solution to the political transition and the
resumption of donor assistance will be key to the success of the
program.
2.   Transport Sector Background. The Government is committed to improve
highway management and road transport performance to promote the
competitiveness of Niger's economy and achieve the economic growth
targeted for the future. The interurban road network is 14,000 km long,
including 3,500 km of paved roads. The urban road network is estimated
to be 840 km long, of which percent is paved. Road maintenance
performance has deteriorated during the past five years mostly because
of lack of incentives and salary arrears, low availability of equipment



(about 60 per cent for heavy equipment), insufficient financing, and
cumbersome procedures. Because of lack of resources, the Government has
concentrated its maintenance effort on a priority network of about 7,656
km. Even on this priority network, about one billion CFAF (one third of
the current operating expenditures for road maintenance) is lacking to
carry out maintenance with proper standards. About 55 percent of paved
roads and 44 percent of earth roads are in poor condition. Most roads
not recently built or maintained with external financing are 9- to 10-
year old and periodic maintenance is crucial now to preserve road assets
and prevent further costly rehabilitation.
3.   The sector is managed by the Ministry of Equipment and
Infrastructure. The Highway Department has a staff of 1,400 employees.
MEI does not have a clear procedure to establish road maintenance and
rehabilitation programs. A road data bank was set up under the Transport
Sector Project (Cr. 1706-NIR closed on June 30, 1993). The data bank was
maintained as long as the TSP was effective, but data have not been
regularly collected since project completion. However, MEI's staff was
trained to operate the data bank which was used for the preparation and
the economic analysis of the proposed Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Project after more recent data on road condition were collected. The
strategy which provides the basis for establishing road maintenance
programs by using the road data bank needs to be updated by changing
methods of works and taking into account budget constraints as well as
lessons learned from the experience of road maintenance in Niger during
the past ten years. The new strategy is expected to be available by
October 1997.
4.   Lack of resources for road maintenance hampers sustainability of
investments in the highway sector. The 1996 operating budget amounts to
CFAF3.6 billion, about 2.1 percent of the national budget. 24 percent
are for salaries, 72 percent for road maintenance related expenditures,
of which most expenditures are ascribed to DMTP. As a first step to
accelerate payment of contractors which do not have enough cash to bear
long delays of the normal payment procedure through the Treasury, the
Government will create by February 1997 a Road Maintenance Account with
resources allocated from the Treasury. One billion CFA, one third of the
operating expenditures, excluding salaries of civil servants in the
Ministry, will be allocated to the Account. As a second step, to sustain
road maintenance financing, the Government will create in 1998 a Road
Maintenance Fund with resources coming from road user charges. The type
of charges and their collection process have still to be defined.
Revenues from existing road tolls are potential resources for the Road
Fund. However, current revenues are only about one third of revenues
estimated on the basis of traffic surveys. A study will be carried out
in 1997 to prepare the creation of the Road Fund. It should include a
revision of the road tolls system and consider the possibility of
contracting, for some specific routes, one operator to operate road
tolls and maintain the itinerary.
5.   To improve efficiency, the Government has decided to progressively
divest of road maintenance execution, use civil works contractors and
focus on planning, programming, budgeting and supervision of works. The
equipment pool will be transformed into a equipment rental company with
private managers. The decision on the type of structure to replace the
-2 -



equipment pool should be taken before October 1997; the structure should
be created before September 1998. The Road Laboratory, which is
responsible for the geotechnical supervision of road works, will change
its statute before May 1998 in order to become autonomous and
financially viable. The Highway Department will be restructured to
reflect these changes. The Road Maintenance Account and the Road Fund
mentioned above will contribute to promote development of small and
medium contractors. In 1997, in addition to operating expenditures used
for emergency operations and usually carried out by local contractors,
about 500,000 dollars from the Government's budget will be used for
pilot operations to develop the use of local contractors for routine
maintenance. Starting in 1999, 100 percent of routine maintenance will
be contracted out except in unsafe areas where it will be carried out by
the army and the Ministry of Public Works. The Highway Department will
be restructured before May 1998 to reflect changes in its role.
6.   High transport costs are a major constraint to Niger's development.
They result of the regulatory framework for international freight
transport and restrictive practices by the road transport industry.
Price regulation was abolished in 1994 except for petroleum products.
Access to the industry is unrestricted. In 1996, the Government
abolished the monopoly granted to the national road transport company
(Societe Nationale des Transports du Niger, SNTN) for mining freight.
SNTN is being restructured with interurban transport activities
transferred to a private company created in 1994; urban transport
activities transferred to a company jointly owned by Niamey's
municipality, the State and other public investors created in December
1996; SNTN itself will remain as a semi-private freight transport
company jointly owned by the State and a foreign private
freightforwarder. Completion of SNTN's restructuring has been delayed
because of lack of financing for severance payment of redundant staff,
but is expected before June 30, 1997. However, although the Government
has liberalized the sector, the road transport union (Syndicat des
Transporteurs Routiers du Niger, STRN) has established a system to
allocate domestic passenger traffic and international freight from Benin
and Togo with negative effects on the economy: (a) international tariffs
set by STRN are 50 percent above tariffs practiced by Beninese truckers;
(b) the system prevents contractual relationships between shippers and
truck owners; (c) implementation of the system is distorted in favor of
large fleet; (d) the system prevents transport operators to invest in
new vehicles; and (e) the safety and comfort of passengers is negatively
affected because transport is not profitable enough to maintain the
vehicles and passengers are not allowed to choose between buses in fair
or poor condition. However, the allocation system does not apply to
international freight between Niger and Nigeria, Ghana and C"te
d'Ivoire, which represents about one third of all international traffic.
Nor is the system applied to passenger traffic within an area of about
100 km around Niamey. Free competition for long distance passenger
transport is also allowed between buses subject to the allocation system
and smaller vehicles and SNTN buses not subject to the system.
Competition also exists between bus stations which offer departures to
the same destinations. To further reduce the negative impact of the
current allocation system for passenger transport, the Government has
launched discussions with STRN to implement bus schedules, which would
let passengers decide on the vehicle they prefer to take.
-3 -



7.   The Government intends to revise the regulatory framework within
which operates the joint Benin-Niger institution (Organisation Commune
Benin-Niger, OCBN), which manages the Nigerien transit traffic through
Benin. OCBN operates the Beninese railway from Cotonou to Parakou and is
granted the monopoly for international freight transport between Benin
and Niger. The railway carries also a substantial volume of passengers.
Passenger traffic is most likely to be subsidized by freight traffic,
although this cannot be substantiated because of OCBN's poor accounting
practices. The Beninese and Nigerien Governments are committed to
abolish OCBN's monopoly when road tolls being constructed on the road
between Cotonou and Parakou are in service. This should result in the
disappearance of the freight allocation system. Construction of road
tolls has started but completion expected in December 1996 has been
delayed and is now expected before the end of the first 1997 semester.
Because privatization of OCBN is supported by the Nigerien Government
but not fully by the Beninese Government, the Nigerien Government does
not have full autonomy in the decision and no timetable has been agreed
yet.
8.   The Government prepared a plan of action to improve road safety in
1990. However, the cost of the plan estimated at about US$4 million was
out of proportion with the Government's capacity to finance the plan.
The only information on accidents date from 1990. That year, about 500
people had been killed, 1,000 people had suffered heavy injuries and
3,000 people light injuries. Road accidents had been estimated to cost
about CFAF2 billion to the economy. The Department of Land Transport in
the Ministry of Transport needs to be strengthened to be able to analyze
and use efficiently information on accidents. The institutional
framework needs to be revised to improve collaboration between public
and private institutions involved in the sector.
9.   The Government has proposed to ASECNA, the Air Safety Agency for
Africa and Madagascar, to manage the airports. Nigerien airports are
currently managed by the Civil Aviation Agency. The Department of Civil
Aviation in the Ministry of Transport regulates the sector. The main
airport is Niamey with about 130,000 annual passengers, mostly
international. ASECNA is currently responsible for air traffic control.
Although reliable information is unavailable, financial statements for
Niamey's airport would be expected to be balanced. Because of a low
level of traffic, those for secondary airport would show a deficit.
Cross-subsidization between airports would be unacceptable if the amount
of the cross-subsidy is too high, because it would make Niamey's airport
unattractive especially for tourism. In this case, the management
contract should be restricted to a few airports where revenues and
expenditures can be balanced. However, to improve the management of
secondary airports, a specific contract, which would specify
requirements for Government subsidy, might be signed, provided that the
contract includes a provision for contract cancellation if the subsidy
is not paid.
10. Objectives. The development objectives are to improve the condition
of the road network and efficiency and sustainability of road
maintenance management and execution. The project will have specific
objectives: (a) to implement immediate institutional reforms decided by
the Government aimed at: (i) improving mobilization and use of scarce
- 4 -



resources; (ii) developing road maintenance by contract; and (iii)
focusing the role of the Ministry on planning, budgeting, programming
and supervising road maintenance works; and (b) maintain the earth road
network to prevent further costly rehabilitation.
11. Description. The project will include seven components:
(a) Regraveling of earth roads: This component would include the
regraveling of 1,060 km of earth roads; detailed engineering
studies and site-specific environmental mitigation plans for works
included in the project; environmental assessment of road
maintenance works on two important roads of the priority network,
not included in the project, crossing environmentally sensitive
areas; supervision of works execution.
(b) Improvement of road maintenance administration and management:
This component would include: support to Government's divestiture
of public works equipment rental activities; support to the Road
Laboratory's restructuring; support to the Highway Department's
restructuring; support to the Highway Department to improve road
maintenance programming procedures, monitor road conditions and
contract out road maintenance; training to strengthen the Highway
Department's capacity in road maintenance programming, procurement
and works supervision; implementation of a computerized system and
procedures to manage the Road Maintenance Account; technical audits
of annual road maintenance programs; financial audits of the Road
Maintenance Account; study for the creation of a Road Fund; road
maintenance strategy study; training in environmental
considerations of staff in the environmental unit of the Ministry
of equipment and staff of the Highway Department; equipment.
(c) Rural road maintenance: This component would include the
definition of a strategy involving beneficiaries in rural road
management, the environmental impact assessment of civil works on
the rural road network; the preparation of a pilot operation and
the coordination of its implementation; detailed engineering
studies and site-specific environmental impact assessments;
supervision of works and civil works.
(d) Road transport: This component would include: preparation of
a road safety plan; assistance to the improvement of vehicle
technical control of vehicles; assistance to the revision of the
regulatory framework to improve protection of road assets,
including axle load limitation; study of the links between
transport and poverty; sensitization activities aimed at the road
transport industry.
(e) Civil aviation: This component would include the technical
appraisal of Niamey's airport and an assistance to the
commercialization of airport management.
(f) Project management: This component would include: financial
audit of the project accounts; implementation of a computerized
management information system in the National Bureau of
Coordination and provision of an accountant; and equipment.
- 5 -



12. Financing. The total project cost is estimated at US$30.2 million.
IDA's contribution will amount to US$.3 million. The Government will
finance counterpart funding equivalent to US$2.8 million and taxes
equivalent to US$2.1 million.
13. Implementation. The Prime Ministry will be responsible for the
overall coordination of the project through the National Bureau of
Coordination (NBC) and for the implementation of structural reforms
identified in the Letter of Sector Policy being prepared by the
Government. The Highway Department in MEI will be responsible for the
highway component, including road maintenance strategy studies,
engineering studies and execution of the earth road regraveling program
financed under the project. The Department of Land Transport will be
responsible for road transport-related studies. The Department of Civil
Aviation will be responsible for the air transport-related studies. The
National Council of Environment for Sustainable Development and the
Department of Environment in the Ministry of Hydraulics will be advisors
to MEI regarding environment-related activities.
14. Sustainability. Sustainability will be achieved through: (a)
institutional reforms in the transport sector to improve the planning
and management capacities of sector institutions and the mobilization of
resources for road maintenance; (b) State divestiture of force account
for road maintenance execution, public works equipment rental entity and
restructuring of the Road Laboratory to improve its financial viability;
(c) development of the Nigerien construction industry; and (d) execution
of a focused training program.
15. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector. The
experience under the Transport Sector Project (TSP, Cr. 1706-NIR, closed
on June 30, 1993) calls for a strong consensus between the Borrower and
donors on objectives for any new project in the sector. This consensus
was reached with the new Government which came on power early 1996 and
which is committed to improved macro-economic management. The TSP's ICR
also recommended to establish a road maintenance policy based on
economic criteria, to strengthen road management capacities and to
reactivate road management tools, all activities which are included in
the proposed project. Lack of local funds for rural road maintenance
hampered sustainability of the Feeder Roads Project. The proposed
project will help develop a rural road maintenance strategy to address
this issue which has remained unaddressed.
16. Rationale for IDA Involvement. The proposed project is consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board in May
1994. A new CAS is being prepared and expected to be completed by April
1997. The CAS is based on four major building blocks: (a) addressing
long-term human capital (including poverty alleviation) and natural
resource issues; (b) building public and private sector institutions to
promote private sector based growth; (c) increasing efficiency of public
resource management; and (d) supporting actions to facilitate supply
response in the wake of the CFAF devaluation. Public resource management
will be improved and private sector promoted under the project by
divesting the State of road maintenance execution and focusing the role
of the Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure on programming,
budgeting and supervision of works. IDA will have a critical role in
- 6 -



assisting the Government in establishing a new framework for transport
development and future donor interventions in the sector. Not many other
donors are currently involved in the transport sector, especially in
policy dialogue, and interventions are uncoordinated. Pilot operations
carried out during the project will help establish a new strategy to
sustain rural road maintenance, then develop the road network in the
rural areas where poverty issues are critical.
17. Issues and Actions. During negotiations, the Government should
agree: (a) to open a Road Maintenance Account to finance road
maintenance expenditures with resources allocated from the Treasury; (b)
to budget, starting with the 1999 budget, resources necessary to
maintain the priority network in accordance with the timetable and the
amounts determined on the basis of the outcome of the road maintenance
strategy study and the study to create the Road Fund; (c) to carry out
a financial audit of the Road Maintenance Account annually; (d) to carry
out annually a technical audit of road maintenance works executed with
Government and IDA funds; (e) to prepare annual budgets and Public
Investment Programs in the transport and urban sectors in consultation
with IDA; (f) to the letter of sector policy; (g) to key performance
indicators; (h) to the carrying out by IDA of a mid-term review at mid-
execution of the project to assess the Government's continued commitment
to the objectives listed in the letter of sector policy and to the
project's objectives; (i) and to the Project Implementation Plan,
including management procedures of the Road Maintenance Account.
18. As a condition for Board presentation, the Government should ratify
the letter of sector policy. As a condition for credit effectiveness,
the Government should: (a) open in the Central Bank the Road Maintenance
Account and deposit the initial amount; (b) open in the Central Bank the
Project Account and deposit the initial amount; (c) open in a commercial
bank the Project's Special Account and deposit the initial amount; (d)
appoint the auditor of the Road Maintenance Account, the Project Account
and the Special Account.
19. Environmental Aspects. The project is rated category A. During
pre-appraisal, an environmental impact assessment of regraveling works
on the priority earth road network was carried out which concluded that
most of civil works carried out under the highway component of the
project are unlikely to have any major adverse impact on the environment
as they involve regraveling of existing roads and no new construction is
intended. Environmental impact assessments will be carried out and
measures to mitigate negative environmental impacts such as loss of
vegetation cover, soil erosion, land degradation will be defined for
each road as part of the engineering studies. A comprehensive
environmental impact assessment will be carried out before appraisal on
two existing roads with potential impact on natural habitats: the Gaya-
Margou which cross the Dosso Reserve, created as a buffer zone for the
W National Park; and the Margou-Ounditan road which serves the Dallol
Bosso area, home of the last giraffes remaining in West Africa. The
project will assist in the implementation of the mitigation and
monitoring plans although works on these two roads are not included in
the project itself.
20. An environmental impact assessment of road works, including
- 7 -



maintenance, rehabilitation and construction, on the rural road network
was carried out. The assessment identified roads which would need a full
environmental impact assessment before the decision to carry out the
road works is taken. As the project will finance only a pilot operation
to demonstrate the sustainability of the road maintenance strategy which
will be prepared with the project's assistance, the Government agrees
that these roads will not be included in the pilot operation. Technical
studies preliminary to the execution of the pilot operation will include
site-specific environmental assessments. A environmental unit was
created in the Department of Highway in the Ministry of Equipment and
Infrastructure. Resources and training will be provided under the
project to help in the startup of the unit. The proposed mid-term review
will include a post-evaluation of the environmental impact of the
project and formulate recommendations if necessary for the second half
of the project.
21. Participation. A seminar was held to define the logical framework
of the project. Constituencies involved in environment in Niger were
regularly consulted during the carrying out of the various environmental
assessments. Donors were informed on the discussions with the Government
regarding the transport sector reform. The project will assist in the
definition of a new rural road maintenance strategy based on a large
consultation process of local governments and populations.
22. Program Objectives Categories. Environmentally Sustainable
Development. Poverty Reduction. Private Sector Development.
23. Benefits. Benefits have been calculated for the regraveling of
earth roads included in the project. They will result from savings in
vehicle operating costs and preservation of road assets preventing
further costly rehabilitation. Works included in the project yield an
average Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 57 percent. ERRs for individual
roads range between 21 and 297 per cent. Benefits from the basic
scenario have been compared to benefits resulting from other
alternatives which were eventually rejected: (a) pavement of one among
two earth roads with traffic above 150 vehicles per day and regraveling
of earth roads keeping the overall project's budget constant; (b)
postponement of works by two years until 2000; and (c) alternatives with
a 10-cm and a 20-cm surface layer.
24. Other benefits have been identified but not measured:
(a) Benefits expected from the institution building component for
the public works sector are: strengthening of the existing capacity
in MEI to monitor road conditions and program road maintenance
works; improved use of budget resources for road maintenance;
improved efficiency of road maintenance execution by using local
small and medium enterprises to replace force account; reduction of
adverse impact of road works on environment.
(b) Benefits expected from the rural road component are: improved
sustainability of rural roads development programs; and reduced
poverty in rural areas where the pilot operation will be executed.
(c) Benefits expected from the road transport component are:
- 8 -



improved road safety and better protection of road assets.
(d) Benefits expected for the civil aviation component are:
improved management of airports and reduction of public
expenditures in the sector.
25. Project Risks. Several risks have been identified:
(a) The political risk is the most important risk. Although the
Government is committed to reforming the country's economy,
difficulties encountered during the preparation of the project
before 1996 demonstrate that reforms might encountered strong
resistance if the commitment weakens due to political changes. This
could delay State divestiture of operations in the transport sector
or the road maintenance sector. It is difficult to identify
measures which could mitigate this risk. Therefore, should the risk
occur, the mid-term review would give the opportunity for any
decision regarding project continuation, restructuring or
cancellation.
(b) As the project will support a significant restructuring of the
transport and public works sector, there is a risk of delays in the
implementation of the reforms due to Government's reluctance to
proceed because of social impact, under the pressure of staff to be
laid off in the institutions which needs to be restructured. The
risk will be mitigated by sensitization activities to inform and
explain the rationale for the reforms. More importantly,
availability of funds for severance payment would facilitate the
restructuring process. Lack of funds is, however, a risk. to
mitigate this risk, particular attention will be paid during
project execution to the inscription of the required resources in
the annual budgets prepared in consultation with IDA.
(c) Because of the passenger traffic allocation system, the risk
is that savings on vehicle operating costs are not passed on to
passengers. The risk does not exist for freight transport as the
allocation system is not applied to domestic freight transport and
the project will not finance strengthening of paved international
itineraries which link Niger to Benin and Togo and where the system
is applied. For passenger traffic, the Government is committed to
discouraging this system and seek to replace the system by bus
schedules. Sensitization activities aimed at transport operators
will mitigate the risk that discussions between the Government and
transport operators fail and that the allocation system be
maintained.
(d) Lack of protection of road assets after their maintenance is
a risk which would hamper the sustainability of road works.
Cooperation of the road industry is essential to mitigate this
risk. The project will include sensitization activities aimed at
the road transport industry to improve compliance with the
regulation on axle loads and rain barriers. Involvement of road
users in the Road Fund will also be a measure expected to sensitize
road users to the need to protect road assets.
-9-



(e) To mitigate the risk of lack of counterpart funds, the
Government will be requested to deposit counterpart funds for any
works contract financed from the IDA credit under the road
component on a project account in a commercial bank prior to the
signature of the contract.
(f) In the highway sector, the risk of lack of funds to finance
recurrent costs will be mitigated by improved planning and
budgeting and the creation of the Road Maintenance Account and,
later, the Road Fund. A satisfactory macro-economic framework will
also alleviate this risk.
(g) Lack of sustainability of capacity building activities may
result of the mobility of staff in the technical ministries. This
will be mitigated by favoring mass training rather than individual
training.
(h) Lack of consistency in the dialogue between IDA and the
Government due to the turnover of IDA's task managers resulting
often in the new task managers questioning the approach taken under
the project is a risk emphasized by the Government. This risk will
be mitigated by involving more the Resident Mission in the
supervision of the project to ensure better continuity on the IDA
side and by carrying out a joint Government-IDA mid-term review to
decide on actions to restructure or revise the project if
necessary.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 10 -



