                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                          Report No: 26930-NE

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (PPFI-Q0220 IDA-30260)

                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.3 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF NIGER

                                  FOR THE

              TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT




                               February 3, 2004




Transport
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective August 25, 2003)

                               Currency Unit = FCFA
                                     1 FCFA = US$ 0.001657
                                      US$ 1 = FCFA 603

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1     December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD   = Agence Française de Développement (French Overseas Development Agency)
BEEEI = Bureau d'Evaluation Environnementale et des Etudes d'Impact
        (Bureau for Environmental Impact Studies)
BNC   = Bureau National de Coordination (National Bureau for Coordination)
CAFER = Caisse Autonome de Financement de l'Entretien Routier (Road Maintenance Fund)
CNUT  = Conseil Nigérien des Utilisateurs de Transport (Shippers' Council)
CNEDD = Conseil National de l'Environnement pour un Développement Durable
        (National Council of Environment for a Sustainable Development)
DMTP  = Direction du Materiel des Travaux Publics (Public Works Equipment Department)
DTP   = Direction des Travaux Publics (Department of Public Works)
DTT   = Direction de Transports Terrestres (Directorate of Land Transport)
IRI   = International Road Roughness Index
OCBN  = Organisation Commune Benin-Niger (Joint Organization Benin-Niger)
PIP   = Public Investment Program
PRIT  = Project de Réhabilitation des Infrastructures de Transport
        (Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
PRIU  = Projet de Réhabilitation des Infrastructures Urbaines
        (Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
RED   = Roads Economic Decision Model
SME   = Small and Medium Enterprises
SNTN  = Société Nationale des Transports Nigériens (National Road Transport Company)
SNTV  = Société Nigérienne de Transport Voyageurs
        (Association of Passenger Tranport of Niger)
VOC   = Vehicle Operating Cost

                              Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                   Country Director (Acting)    Diarietou Gaye
                            Sector Manager      Sanjivi Rajasingham
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Andreas Schliessler

                                  REPUBLIC OF NIGER
           TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P035608                                                  Project Name: NE TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB
Team Leader: Andreas Schliessler                                     TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 5, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: NE TRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                                  L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0220; IDA-30260
   Country/Department: NIGER                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (99%); Central government administration
                            (1%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other urban development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/21/1994                                     Effective: 05/07/1998                05/12/1998
     Appraisal: 06/26/1997                                         MTR: 11/08/2000                  08/01/2001
      Approval: 12/18/1997                                      Closing: 01/31/2003                 05/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Niger/Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Darietou Gaye (Acting)                         Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Maryvonnne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader at ICR:             Andreas Schliessler                            Jean-Noël Guillossou
ICR Primary Author:             Robert Fishbein


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
The project has not been subject to QAG reviews at any time.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objectives stated in the Project Appraisal Document were to improve the condition of the
road network and the efficiency of road maintenance execution. These objectives were straightforward and
responded directly to needs, both at the time of the original project design in late 1994, and even much more
so at appraisal in 1997.    The long delay between identification and appraisal was caused by a military
coup during the preparation process. This caused a withdrawal of most donors from Niger, including the
Bank. Following the Presidential election in July 1996 and legislative elections in November 1996, project
preparation re-started. Since donor support for heavier periodic maintenance activities had been largely
withdrawn following the military takeover, and the road network was deteriorating. This was made worse
by insufficient local funding of routine road maintenance.          Hence, project design responded to the
Government's request for assistance in rehabilitating priority sections of the road network and
re-establishing a credible program of road maintenance, including the maintenance funding aspect, which
would also facilitate the return of additional donor resources.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The development objectives were not formally revised during the project period. However, two years into
execution, the PSR statement of development objectives was expanded in order to broaden the focus of the
project. The following goals were stated: (i) to stabilize and improve the condition of the priority network,
reducing the long-run economic costs for road maintenance and rehabilitation in order to attain sectoral
financial sustainability; (ii) to restructure and strengthen institutional capacity, financial viability and
operational efficiency of the agencies of the sector; (iii) to encourage private sector involvement in
investment and management of the sector; and (iv) to reduce transport cost for the poor. This expansion of
goals and objectives reflected the fact that the project components as presented in the SAR addressed, in
reality, a much broader range of issues than the rather limited original project development objectives
which were stated in the SAR. The revised objectives were nevertheless relevant, given the Government's
desire to lay the groundwork for a more coherent transport sector strategy beyond road network
management and maintenance.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included six components:

(a)      Earth Roads: Regravelling of 1,060 km of unpaved main roads.
(b)      Rural Roads: Definition of a strategy for rural roads, including the pilot execution of 150 km of
rural roads.
(c)      Road Maintenance Administration and Management:              Support to the implementation of the
Government's stated reform program, including (i) divestiture of public works equipment rental activities;
(ii) Road Laboratory restructuring; (iii) Public Works Department restructuring; (iv) Road maintenance
programming procedures; (v) Monitoring and contracting out road maintenance; (vi) Training; (vii)
computerized system and procedures for management of the Road Maintenance Fund; (viii) creation of the
Road Maintenance Fund; (ix) definition of a Road Maintenance Strategy; and (x) Training in
environmental management.
(d)      Road Transport:      Support to a series of studies and actions including (i) technical advisory
services to implement a road safety plan; (ii) improvement of technical control of vehicles; (iii) revision of
regulatory framework for protection of road assets, including axle load limitation; (iv) study of
poverty-transport linkages; (v) creation of a National Observatory for Transport; (vi) feasibility study for a
inland container terminal; (vii) definition of a training strategy for the transport sector; (viii) development
of an investment plan for river ports; and (ix) computerization of vehicle registrations.



                                                      - 2 -

(e)      Environment: In addition to the road-specific environmental activities above, the project included
(i) support to the National Council of Environment for Sustainable Development (CNEDD) under the
Prime Minister's Office and the Department of Environment in the Ministry of Hydraulics and
Environment; (ii) preparation of legal documents to implement the 1997 law institutionalizing
environmental assessments; and (iii) equipment.
(f)      Project Management: (i) Financial audits of the Credit and Special Accounts; (ii) Equipment; and
(iii) incremental operating costs for the National Bureau of Coordination (BNC), including contractual
staff.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project retained the original six components throughout the credit period. However, in June 2000, a
portion of credit proceeds (SDR 3.0 million equivalent) were reallocated to support the Government's
retrenchment program for the Department of Public Works (DTP) and the Public Works Equipment Pool
Directorate (DMTP). Funds were reallocated from the Category 1, Civil Works, to a new Category titled
"Severance Payments." Although the project design had earlier assumed that the National Budget would
finance the severance portion of the restructuring plan, the SAR noted already that the lack of Government
funds for this purpose was a "serious risk." This was born out by events, especially following another
coup d'état in April 1999. Although political stability was restored and donor assistance resumed in
November 1999, public finances had deteriorated dramatically.            Since a cornerstone of the plan to
strengthen road maintenance under the Credit was the disengagement of the state, direct support was
justified, in view of the urgent need to proceed with this particular reform.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered satisfactory, although marginally so. The project was clearly linked to the
third core area of IDA assistance in the CAS of November 1997: "Promotion of open economic policies
and regional linkages." It was consistent with the Bank's effort to foster a favorable business climate
through support of state divestiture. By improving basic access in the country, it would also facilitate other
direct programs for poverty reduction. Safeguard polices were adequately addressed in the SAR.

Although the project was based on the Government's letter of sector policy, the SAR recognized that, since
none of the reforms envisaged in the letter were yet in place, there was a major risk that consistent
Government support for fundamental reforms would not materialize. Also, it was considered that there was
a risk that counterpart funds, particularly to support the retrenchment program, would not be available. As
noted above, both risks later turned into a reality. However, given that the Government officials in charge
at the time of project preparation were fully supportive of the reforms and thought it possible to finance the
retrenchment program from local budget resources, it was deemed reasonable for the preparation team to
recommend accepting this risk, so as to stay engaged and lend support to the reform process, with a full
understanding that the risks be reassessed later during the project.

The project design team, in their effort to be very thorough, included such a large number of actions and
activities that the project design can be judged as somewhat overloaded and not selective enough.           It
involved numerous (over 40) studies covering a wide range of subjects, particularly in the area of Road
Transport Policy. A part of the studies resulted in successful reforms and follow-on activities. For some
other studies carried out, there was insufficient funding (by Government and/or donors) and insufficient
human capacity to implement the recommendations made. In addition, the Road Transport Component, in
spite of being very useful and successful, diverted a lot of attention without contributing to the
originally-stated development objective.

During project preparation, the preparation team grafted itself to the ongoing preparation of the Urban
Infrastructure Project (PRIU) and the National Bureau for Coordination (BNC), attached to the Ministry of



                                                     - 3 -

Planning and eventually to the Prime Minister's Office.          It was decided that the PRIT was to be
implemented together with the PRIU, under the leadership on the Government side of a single National
Coordinator. Overall, the BNC operated efficiently. However, it turned out that the technical monitoring
and overall management of both projects were an exceptionally challenging task. In retrospect, it was not
realistic to assume that one single coordinator at the BNC could effectively coordinate and monitor the
panoply of studies and activities in the transport project, in addition to the numerous activities of the urban
project. This problem was only addressed after the mid-term review, when three technical specialists were
hired for the BNC to support the coordinator.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome/achievement of objective is rated unsatisfactory, although only marginally so given
the project's numerous positive achievements. The fundamental reason for this rating is that the overall
condition of Niger's road network is deteriorating today rather than improving, and that a reversal of this
situation is presently not in sight. It is a case where, although the project can be said to have achieved
almost all of its output objectives, the expected outcomes of improved road network condition and
improved efficiency of road maintenance execution (the core objectives) have not been realized in a
sustainable way. It can be said, however, that this outcome is primarily a result of the overall declining
situation of Niger's public finances, and not the result of a "bad" project. The general problem is that as a
result of a serious decline of fiscal revenue over the past 15 years, Niger cannot afford any more to keep up
its entire road network of some 9,700 km plus 5,000 km of rural roads, which was built at a time when
both domestic and donor resources were much more abundant than today.

In terms of physical improvement works on the road network, the project actually exceeded original output
objectives. As a temporary outcome, the level of service on some 1,400 km of unpaved roads was
improved very significantly, compared to an original target of only 1,060 km. This included emergency
works to save portions of the network and expand coverage by reducing service standards, following
extremely heavy rains in 1998.

Regarding the improvement of road maintenance execution, the project was instrumental in introducing
fundamental structural reforms which did indeed put in place the essential legal and organizational
framework needed to achieve more efficient road maintenance. These accomplishments include:
l The restructuring of the Public Works Directorate from a massive force account organization to a
    much smaller and professionalized organization. This included the retrenchment of some 1.200 staff of
    the Ministry of Equipment (bringing about much-needed fiscal relief for the Government), and the
    creation of a dedicated Road Maintenance Directorate.
l The successful move from road maintenance by force account to contracting out those activities to
    private firms. This has led to the creation and use of at least eight local private contractors for road
    maintenance works who absorbed many of the retrenched workers of the former government force
    account brigades, plus several local consulting firms active in the design and supervision of road
    works.
l The privatization of the Government's plant and equipment pool, by transforming it into a
    privately-owned equipment rental firm.
l The transformation of the Government's public works laboratory into a commercial enterprise.
l The establishment by law of the Road Maintenance Fund, based on a modern legislation following the
    concept of a second-generation road maintenance fund.

Each of these reforms involved difficult and commendable strides for the Government. Although some of



                                                      - 4 -

the resulting new institutions are still in their formative stages (e.g. the privatized equipment rental firm),
the overall success of the project in moving forward these reforms cannot be denied. Why is it then that the
desired outcome of the project was not achieved? The answer is: the non-application of some aspects of
the Road Maintenance Fund Law by the Government (Ministry of Finance), which resulted in insufficient
funding for road maintenance. This aspect was outside the control of the implementing agency (Ministry of
Equipment and Infrastructure) and is discussed in detail in section 5.2 of this ICR.

The project developed an innovative rural roads strategy and applied this strategy through several pilot
projects. As explained in section 4.2 below, implementation delays for the pilot projects did however not
allow for the practical testing of the basic underlying concepts of the new rural roads strategy. The success
or not of the strategy can only be judged some two years after the completion of the pilot projects, which
will be in 2005. The validation of the strategy and its formal adoption by the Government was thus not
achieved.

Regarding the expanded set of actions and objectives mentioned earlier, the project was successful in
assisting the Directorate of Land Transport to put in place several basic services and address some
fundamental sector issues related to safety, quality and affordability. For example, the computerization of
vehicle registration and driver licensing has been fully completed for Niamey and is underway for
decentralized locations outside Niamey at the time of ICR preparation. Most essential elements of the
Road Safety Action Plan financed under the project have been implemented. The numerous other studies
financed under the project have led to various positive structural reforms and outcomes. The most notable
are the successful full privatization of the National Transport Company (long-distance passenger transport
by bus); the establishment of the Transport Observatory, which provides transport and trade statistics; and
the liberalization of inter-city passenger and freight services, which have resulted in an average 7 percent
reduction in passenger fares and 15 percent reduction in freight rates.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Earth Roads: This component is rated very satisfactory. It achieved an acceptable level of service on
1,435 km of gravel roads, compared to the original target of only 1,060 km. This expansion was achieved
by reducing the original specifications, which involved full regravelling (implemented on the first phase of
545 km) to a "spot improvement," approach (implemented on some 890 km in the second phase, twice the
originally planned amount). This decision demonstrates the flexible approach of the project team. It was
taken following the exceptionally heavy rains of July/August 1998, when it was perceived that traffic on a
major portion of the earth road network was in danger of complete disruption. A study was commissioned
to formulate a program of spot improvements on 1,800 km. The study recommended a priority program in
four tranches, two of which were financed by PRIT. An added advantage of the revised approach was that
it provided an opportunity to build local capacity in road engineering and maintenance works, since it
involved smaller, more dispersed works which would not be attractive to international firms. Minor
reductions in the final output of several contracts in Phase 2 were necessary, so as to stay within the funds
available in the Civil Works category (reduced due to the reallocation of the credit to support the
retrenchment program and the fall in the value of the US dollar). The overall savings in the regravelling
component also enabled the project to assist in additional emergency works following the 1999 rains and to
bridge the gap in funding for maintenance during the transition from force account to contracting. This
made it possible to finance the rehabilitation of an important bridge on National Road (RN) 6, mechanized
routine maintenance on 696 km, and eight spot improvement contracts on the paved network.

Rural Roads: The rating for this component is unsatisfactory. While an innovative rural roads strategy
was indeed developed, and most of the planned pilot projects were actually implemented, the main goal of
validating and formally adopting a strategy for rural road development could not be achieved before the



                                                      - 5 -

closing date. This is because the new strategy was supposed to be tried out through several pilot projects
carried out under the project, the results of which were to be evaluated before the strategy could be
formally adopted by the Government. However, the pilot projects were much delayed and barely completed
at the project closing date, and some were even cancelled. It was impossible to draw any conclusions as to
the results of the approach followed under those pilot projects (community-based maintenance).              In
addition, the pilot roads were at the end all improved to the same high standard, thus not providing a basis
for comparison of the various improvement standards proposed in the draft strategy. On one of the five
pilot roads, the project completed only 11 of the 17 km, causing consternation among the population. In
areas where the roads were completed, there is satisfaction among the population; however, the
management and finance of maintenance is only now being addressed, and it is not clear the extent to which
the approach can be replicated, given the high per km cost of the initial investments. The pilot projects
were recently completed and do not yet allow drawing conclusions needed to validate a rural roads strategy.
Most of the problems in this component were caused by a change of the Director of Rural Roads mid-way
through the project, with the new Director not fully applying the principles of the draft rural roads strategy
developed under his predecessor.

Road Maintenance Administration and Management: The output rating for this component is satisfactory,
although marginally so, not withstanding continued problems of resource mobilization for road
maintenance. There is no doubt that the project did basically everything it set out to do under this
component, and that it was instrumental in bringing about major very positive developments and
capacity-building for implementing road maintenance operations.

The Government achieved (as outputs) important structural reforms, notably: (i) the full reorganization of
the Public Works General Directorate, including the creation of a fully functional Road Maintenance
Directorate, the establishment of a road condition database, and better capacity for planning, programming
and budgeting of      investments and maintenance; (ii) the elaboration of a road network maintenance
strategy; (iii) the complete conversion of road maintenance activities from force account to private
contractors; (iv) the transformation of the public works laboratory to a commercially-managed enterprise;
(v) the privatization of the Government's Plant Pool and its transformation into an equipment rental
company; (vi) the establishment by law of the Road Maintenance Fund (CAFER); and (vii) the elaboration
of a Road Sector Strategy (which is however only now being finalized, 4 months after the closing date).
However, the benefits of these reforms (outcome) could not fully materialize, due to resource constraints
which are explained in section 5.2.

Road Transport: The output of this component is rated satisfactory. Numerous studies were completed
and several key structural reforms were promoted, which are yielding improvements in transport service
quality and cost. Tangible accomplishments in structural reform include:
l Restructuring of the National Transport Company (SNTN) and the elimination of its previous
    monopoly on interurban and urban transport.         This, combined with project-supported efforts to
    circumvent the "tour de role" system for interurban transport (where consumers previously had no
    choice between operators), has resulted in the introduction of two additional companies providing
    modern, reliable bus services at competitive rates;
l Restructuring of the National Union of Transport Users (CNUT). Although texts elaborated through
    the project are not yet adopted, studies have led to the liberalization of maritime transport (elimination
    of the 40/40/20 maritime cargo sharing rules) and to the abandonment of the "tour de role" system for
    most commercial road transport;
l Establishment of the National Observatory for Transport, within CNUT, which provides regular
    transport and trade statistics;
l Elimination of the quota system for petrol transport, which overnight reduced by 35 percent the



                                                    - 6 -

     transport cost for petrol and introduced competitive higher-quality service; and
l Co-financing with AFD of a study for the concessioning of the Niger-Benin rail service (OCBN).
     PRIT financed the costs for the first phase of the study (which is still underway), while AFD is
     financing the second and third phases.

Other accomplishments of this component include: (i) elaboration of a Road Safety Action Plan and
implementation of initial actions, such as a data base on road accidents and several road safety campaigns;
(ii) implementation of an information, education and communication program to reduce the risk of
HIV/AIDS along transport corridors and among transport workers; (iii) feasibility studies and preparation
of bidding documents for the creation of a "dry port" for Niamey; (iv) studies on transport and poverty, and
transport and gender, which have contributed to the elaboration of the PRSP (Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper) and the draft rural roads strategy; (v) studies and elaboration of legal texts to reform the transport
services sector; and (vi) feasibility studies and bidding documentation to develop small boat landings along
the Niger River.

The criticism which can be made is that some of the studies carried out under the component were too wide
ranging and ambitious, so that their results could not always be followed up through concrete action, due to
lack of financial and human resources. Also, a part of the planned training activities had to be cancelled in
order to stay within the project funding envelope.

Environment:      This component is rated very satisfactory. The National Council of Environment for
Sustainable Development (CNEDD), as well as the Bureau for Environmental Impact Studies (BEEEI),
were created through this project.        A total of 200 people have received training in environmental
management and assessment procedures, including four staff members who underwent "training of
trainers" courses in Canada. The General Directorate of Public Works has established an environmental
unit, which has overseen the completion and implementation of environmental management plans for the
PRIT road projects. Mitigation measures are regularly incorporated into the contract documents. A major
mitigation plan was developed and implemented for the development of social infrastructure (school rooms
and solar-powered water supply) in Tegueye (Tera-Yatakala Road) during Phase 1.

Project Management: The rating for this component is satisfactory. As noted earlier, the initial design
assumed that one coordinator at the BNC could effectively coordinate two complex and high-risk projects.
Under these conditions, the National Coordinator did as good a job as can be expected in keeping both
projects moving, but was unable to establish an ongoing monitoring and evaluation system, such that
indicators on sector performance in the Credit Agreement were not systematically followed up during the
first half of the project. This situation was remedied at the mid-term review, with the appointment of full
time technical specialists as sub-coordinators for PRIT and PRIU, and measures to establish a system for
monitoring performance indicators.         The BNC provided regular reports as required by the Credit
Agreement, and a formal review of procurement procedures by the Bank in March 2003 showed that Bank
procedures have been followed adequately.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During appraisal, the economic evaluation of the project was limited to the physical investments in road
works, and the same approach is used under the ICR. A comparison was made between the rates of return
for investments (IRR) projected at appraisal, with the actual rates of return based on known investment
costs and traffic figures at the end of the project. The results are presented in Annex 3. The investments
financed under the project were for periodic maintenance / rehabilitation of existing earth roads. The
economic evaluation normally covers both the initial investment for periodic maintenance / rehabilitation,
plus the annual routine maintenance during the evaluation period. In this context, the life cycle of the



                                                      - 7 -

investment made in periodic maintenance / rehabilitation is defined as the time until the next periodic
maintenance or rehabilitation is due, and for the roads in question, the assumption is that periodic
maintenance needs to be done every five years. Thus, the time period to assess the economic rate of return
for the investments made in this project is five years. The ICR mission showed however that on the six
roads analyzed, little or no routine maintenance was actually carried out since the rehabilitation works, and
the annual routine maintenance costs were therefore zero. Calculations of net present value (NPV) and rate
of return (IRR) were based on actual costs (contract values for works and supervision) and actual traffic
data based on traffic counts for the five year period. Because of limitations in traffic data provided by the
Ministry of Public Works Road data base, this was done for four of the six Phase I roads and two of the
thirteen Phase II roads, using the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED) developed by the World Bank.

In all of the six cases, the roads were in extremely poor condition and almost impassable for part of the
year before the investment. For this reason, the investment had the effect of releasing a vital constraint,
leading to a relatively large increase in traffic immediately following the works, especially on those roads
carrying international traffic (particularly Tera-Yatakala and Tikim-Adaré which are respectively on the
Burkina Faso and Nigerian borders). It is expected however, that this traffic will level off beyond the
initial period of analysis. Investment costs per kilometer ranged from US$ 5,085 to US$ 19,436, with an
average of US$ 14,900 on Phase I roads and US$ 6,900 on Phase II roads which used the "spot
improvement" approach.       The analysis showed that all the roads had positive NPVs at a 12% discount
rate, with the rates of return ranging from 45 % to 119 %. The sensitivity and switching point analysis
shows that NPV would be positive even if one assumes a 25 % lower traffic level, and that traffic levels
would have to be from 50 % to 80 % lower to arrive at a zero NPV. The economic analysis shows that,
within the five year periodic maintenance life cycle, periodic maintenance investments on the earth roads
had high rates of return, largely because initial conditions were extremely bad. However, it is clear that
rates of return would be even higher if routine maintenance would have been carried out.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was high. It was instrumental in fundamentally changing
the way in which road maintenance activities are carried out in Niger (from force account to contracting)
and setting up an operational system for road maintenance planning and implementation. In the face of the
Government's serious financial constraints, the project facilitated the Government's implementation of
socially painful reforms by providing the necessary resources to implement the retrenchment of 1.200
workers for the Public Works Directorate and the privatization of the plant and equipment pool. It also
facilitated the restructuring of the Public Works Laboratory to commercial operations, an important
element in the transition away from force account works. The establishment of the Road Maintenance
Fund was a major accomplishment, given past policies, and although it was not fully implemented as
originally envisioned, its mere existence now provides a focal point for seriously addressing the road
maintenance issue and a foundation for future improvements and a policy dialogue with the Bank and other
donors. The combination of the institutional reforms brought about by the project, with Phase 2 of the
Earth Roads component and two years of Road Maintenance Fund operations, led to the creation of a
hitherto non-existent local contracting and consulting industry in the road sector, which found work and
gained experience through the numerous small contracts for road maintenance and rehabilitation.

In respect of road transport, the project helped the Directorate of Land Transport (DTT) begin to address
some of the root problems of the sector, which was grossly inefficient and a heavy burden on the economy.
The elimination of interurban and urban transport monopolies and transport quota systems and the



                                                     - 8 -

introduction of consumer choice led to almost immediate improvements in service competitiveness, quality
and price. The project established a minimum capability for vehicle registrations, licensing and road safety
campaigns, although a number of the planned activities remain unfunded.              Regarding environmental
management, the project made major inroads in main streaming environmental assessment and
management, by establishing functioning agencies and training a broad range of stakeholders.

The above very significant institutional gains are however tempered by important risks of sustainability.
The new institutional setup for road management and maintenance is very young and, without regular road
maintenance financing, risks floundering in the future (see section 6).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The extraordinarily heavy rains of 1998 wrought unforeseen damage on the already deteriorating road
network. This came at a time when the Government, supported by the project, was in a period of transition
from force account to contracted works but had not yet put in place the Road Maintenance Fund. In order
to save the road network from widespread traffic interruptions, the project downgraded its technical
approach on the regravelling component so as to provide at least minimal maintenance funding on the
paved network and wider coverage on unpaved network in 1999-2000.

A second major factor was the second coup d'etat in 1999 and the general economic decline of the country
in the following period. GNP grew at 3.9%, 2.4%, and 10.4% respectively in 1996, 1997 and 1998. Yet
following the exceptionally encouraging agricultural year in 1998, the economy slipped into a tailspin in
1999 and 2000, with GNP growth at -1.2% and -1.4%. Under these conditions, the Government was in an
even poorer position than initially anticipated to cover the social costs of the retrenchment program and in
meeting counterpart funding obligations. The project responded to this need, but at the price of reducing the
amount of funds available for civil works.

A major factor with negative impacts on the outcome of the project was the breakdown in consensus
among the donors on the basic policy and approach to assuring sustainable road maintenance financing,
which in essence led to the fact that (i) road maintenance funding continues to be insufficient, and (ii) the
sustainability of many of the project's achievements, and Niger's road network as a whole, is seriously
threatened. At project inception and until 2001, there was a general agreement among the Bank, the EU
and the IMF that the road user fee applied to the price of fuel were to be directly deposited in the Road
Maintenance Fund. This principle is indeed retained in the Road Maintenance Fund Law which was
adopted by Parliament in 1999. However, the Ministry of Finance revisited the application of this law and
found support with the IMF and the EU, whose newly appointed representatives departed from the views
shared by their predecessors. In 2003, the Minister of Finance clearly indicated that, because of the
deteriorating fiscal situation, he would not accept direct collection of revenues by the Road Maintenance
Fund (CAFER). This was later backed by a position paper from the EU (see Annex 7, Supporting
Documents). At that time the project was about to close, and it was too late for the Bank's team to take any
measures.

It can be added here that the Bank's Task Manager made numerous attempts to reconsolidate a common
donor position between 2001 until the end of the project. However, diverging views between the transport
sector staff and the country operations staff prevented a successful outcome.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
After the Road Maintenance Fund Law was passed by Parliament in November 1999, it took the



                                                     - 9 -

Government more than 18 months to actually implement the RMF (CAFER) as a staffed and functioning
institution. The Government then continued to delay the implementation of one particular aspect of the
law, namely the direct collection mechanism of fuel levies by the CAFER. As mentioned in section 5.1
above, this was explained by "temporary liquidity problems". The Government did include in the annual
budgets reasonable amounts for road maintenance, but disbursed much less than budgeted. In 2001, of the
amounts programmed for road maintenance, only 35% was actually paid by the Treasury to the Road
Maintenance Fund. This was supplemented by 44% direct aid from AFD, still leaving a gap of 21%. In
2002, the Treasury deposited some 54% of the user fees collected, and retained the funds which had been
provided by AFD specifically for road maintenance.        By July 2003, only some 22% of the programmed
funds for 2003 have been deposited into the Road Maintenance Fund by the Treasury. Under these
conditions, the Road Maintenance Directorate is unable to effectively plan and implement a coherent annual
road maintenance program. The predictable result is the gradual deterioration of Niger's road network.
This vicious cycle of poor funding and asset deterioration is precisely the problem which the project sought
to solve. The erratic nature of maintenance funding has also created a chain reaction of adverse affects on
other sector actors, including the nascent local construction firms and supervision consultants, as well as
their use of laboratory and equipment rental services for road maintenance contracts.

The collapsing consensus between donors during the project encouraged the Government to not fully
implement the Road Maintenance Fund legislation adopted by parliament.                   Although the Project
Management Unit (BNC) had been put under the control of the Prime Minister's office, precisely to ensure
full support for the reform measures outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy, this was
insufficient to induce the Ministry of Finance to implement the "direct collection mechanism" for the Road
Maintenance Fund. Ultimately, it is this shortcoming that undermined the achievement of the overall
project development objective and leads to the "unsatisfactory" rating of project outcome.

The Government had serious difficulties mobilizing counterpart funds in 1998 and part of 1999, which led
to delays in execution of Phase 1 of Earth Roads. However, this problem was solved through a flexible
approach, by allowing the Government to credit the taxable portion of the works contracts as its
contribution.

The turnover of Government personnel had a particularly negative influence on the implementation of the
Rural Roads Component, when a new Director essentially rejected the agreed approach to test various
technical options, thus rendering the pilot projects of limited use for validating the strategy.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Despite the fact that the BNC was understaffed for covering two projects in the beginning, it did a good job
setting up basic management and monitoring systems in conformity with Bank requirements.               Once
additional dedicated staff were provided after the mid-term review, oversight of the transport project
improved measurably. Having said that, the BNC shares responsibility for not establishing a system of
regular monitoring of project outcome indicators during the first half of the project. Because of its
attachment to the Prime Minister's office, the BNC and the Management Committee was, in theory,
well-placed to ensure that the Road Maintenance Fund was set up in conformity with the original Letter of
Development Policy and implemented in conformity with its establishing articles. However, it was not able
to play this role as envisioned, as evidenced by the eventual reversal of the original approach.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Information on project costs and financing is included in the Annexes.




                                                     - 10 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability rating is unlikely, because of the poor prospects for achieving sustainable and
reliable road maintenance financing in the foreseeable future. A field visit in June 2003 of a sample of
Phase 1 PRIT roads revealed that these roads are beginning to deteriorate due to a lack of adequate routine
maintenance over the last two years. From an institutional point of view, the PRIT has created a road
maintenance, management and financing organization under the Road Maintenance Directorate and the
Road Maintenance Fund, as well as the emerging private sector capacity in construction and engineering.
However, this capacity is bound to be under-utilized because of: the lack of a reliable and adequate
financing system, as noted above. Clearly, the vicious cycle of poor maintenance funding and asset
deterioration is continuing apace. The temporary solution proposed by the EU is to condition its budgetary
support and funding for major rehabilitation on the Treasury's deposits of the full programmed amounts to
the Road Maintenance Fund. This "forced approach" may have some success during the years in which it
is actually applied. However, given the inevitable cross-pressures and priorities faced by public finance,
this has the potential to provoke repeated crisis situations with the donor, while holding hostage important
periodic maintenance work on the network, thus engendering further asset deterioration and higher
maintenance costs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The PRIT has laid the foundation for the development of a new "public works economy," within which a
set of public and private actors adequately play, and are held accountable for, their respective roles
(finance/oversight; planning/management/supervision; and execution) in road network management and
maintenance and in road transport. However, these institutions depend on a steady source of financing,
both from local and donor sources. The new CAS does not include lending for a follow-on transport
project, in light of constraints on future IDA lending, and because of priority given to other sectors.
Although the European Union and AFD remain actively engaged in Niger's transport sector, it is however
unclear if they will be able to provide adequate policy support.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending performance was satisfactory, although marginally so. Project identification was responsive
to Government priorities at the time. Bank personnel worked closely with the borrower in all aspects of
preparation, including identifying key sector reforms to be pursued during the project and formulating a
detailed implementation plan. The Staff Appraisal Report correctly identified the risks associated with
reform and counterpart funding. However, in its effort to be responsive and very thorough, the preparation
team included a relatively large number of individual and wide-ranging activities (mostly studies) into some
project components. Although basically all of those studies were carried out, it was probably too optimistic
to assume that the Government would be able to absorb the results of some of those studies and translate
their recommendations into concrete actions and implementation measures. The declining fiscal situation
and limited donor support during the life of the project made it impossible to finance certain planned
investments for which studies were carried out.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was satisfactory during most of the project period, with the exception of the year before
the mid-term review. Given the identified risks, early Bank supervision missions carefully monitored the
counterpart funding situation and proactively sought to solve key problems, particularly easing the
transition to contractor-based road maintenance. From 2000 onwards, when the Road Maintenance Fund



                                                     - 11 -

should have been fully functional, PSRs and mission Aide Memoires highlighted the Government's delays
in implementing some aspects of the Road Maintenance Fund law.               However, the PSRs contain no
information on performance indicators until 2000, and until then supervision missions did not work with the
Coordination Office to set up an adequate monitoring and evaluation system, which was only addressed
following the mid-term review. During a certain period before the mid-term review, implementation
progress and relations between Bank staff and the Government reached a low point, due principally to: (i)
long delays by Bank staff in responding to requests for non-objections which led to important
implementation delays; and (ii) a tendency by Bank staff to deal directly with General Directorate of Public
Works on important matters, without informing the Project Coordination Office or the Project Steering
Committee. This led to a written complaint by the Prime Minister to the Bank. These supervision
problems were corrected at the mid-term review (change of Task Manager), and since then, project
activities progressed very well and relations between project staff at the Bank and the Government
markedly improved, as demonstrated by another letter to the Bank by the Prime Minister.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is considered satisfactory, although marginally so. The main weaknesses were
a somewhat "overloaded" project design and inadequate attention to performance indicators in the first half
of project execution. Poor client relations resulted from communication problems, but these were resolved
during the second half of the project and almost all project activities were successfully concluded.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government preparation performance was satisfactory. The BNC, Directorate of Public Works and
Directorate of Land Transport were all integrally involved in the preparation and negotiations. A letter of
sector policy was prepared, which addressed key sector issues and the Government met effectiveness
conditions five months following the signing of the DCA.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall implementation performance by the Government is judged satisfactory. The Government was able
to implement adequately (i) several important reforms related to road maintenance institutions and practices
and road transport services, and (ii) physical road rehabilitation works. However, these accomplishments
are diminished by Government's failure to implement the financing arrangements of the Road Maintenance
Fund, in conformity with its original articles, and the Government's outright rejection of these principles
towards the end of the project in early 2003.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation performance of the BNC is satisfactory.               Although the coordination office was
understaffed until just before the mid-term review, it nevertheless managed to achieve an acceptable
performance in financial management and reporting. Additional staff hired after the mid-term review has
helped to improve the BNC's capacity considerably. A shortcoming has been the failure to establish a
complete and effective monitoring and evaluation system of sector performance, based on indicators agreed
during the negotiations.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is, on balance, considered unsatisfactory. Although the Borrower should be
given credit for general project implementation and for making major strides in changing the basic
institutional landscape for road and road transport sector management, the lack of following up on an
important political commitment and implementing certain aspects of the existing legislation, both
concerning road maintenance financing, made it impossible to attain the main development objective of the
project and assure sustainability of Niger's road network, which is among the country's largest assets.


                                                    - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

The first lesson is that if a policy change by law is required as a condition of project effectiveness, the laws
which are decided under those conditions are not necessarily implemented.

The second lesson is that even if a firm and sincere political commitment by the Government exists at the
time of appraisal, a change of key politicians (ministers) in the Government, and a deterioration of the
macroeconomic situation may result in a non-adherence to earlier commitments.

In the same line of thought, one could say that when fundamental sector reform is at play, one should resist
the temptation to address too many other issues at the same time. Since the Government's project staff
seems to have been extremely busy with the plethora of studies (not only in Transport, but also in Urban
development during the first half), it was not always able to devote adequate attention and resources to
quality control and the absorption of recommendations made in the studies by the agencies concerned.
Also, the Government's project staff did not have sufficient political weight to ensure the practical
implementation of the most fundamental and difficult reform of all: putting in place a reliable system for
road maintenance financing. This in spite of the fact that the legal basis for the reform was there (Road
Maintenance Fund Law). This experience also suggests that it is not realistic to expect that such a new
concept can be adequately established with only minimal technical assistance (such as elaboration of the
texts and operations manual) and be fully functional within the span of a single investment project. Rather,
a continued and intense program of technical assistance would have been needed to "iron out" the inevitable
problems that arise during the formative stages of such reforms. Unfortunately, the CAS does not allow for
that continuity.

Finally, even if a consensus between various donors and the Government exists concerning a planned policy
change, this consensus may subsequently fall apart if the policy stance of the donors concerned evolves; the
latter being triggered often by staff rotation. This problem has been observed in several recent cases in
Africa and elsewhere, and has been particularly pointed out in the Niger case. Governments can easily
exploit differences of opinion between donors, and are sometime caught in conflicting demands by different
donors.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The implementing agency and members of the PRIT Steering Committee feel that the project was a success
in initiating and achieving several politically difficult reforms, which the Government could simply not have
accomplished alone and without this project.          There is however, a general agreement that the still
unresolved issue of direct collection of user fees by the Road Maintenance Fund is at the crux of realizing
the full benefit of the otherwise successful reform of road maintenance. Particular compliments were paid
by the Government to the Bank's Task Manager during the second half of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
AFD is cofinancing the study for concession of the Niger-Benin rail services. It expresses satisfaction with
progress for this study, albeit with previous delays. AFD is also providing direct financial assistance to the
Road Maintenance Fund and will continue to take an active interest in its management. AFD expressed its
support in principle for the Second Generation Road Maintenance Fund. It is however not willing at this
time to make its support contingent to the full implementation of the Road Maintenance Fund Law.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Discussions with the private sector (SMEs and consultants) revealed that this group of economic actors



                                                      - 13 -

actually and literally owes its existence to the PRIT, and that a number of initial problems associated with
qualifications and contract management by the Public Works General Directorate are being ironed out.

The Government has prepared its own Implementaiton Completion Report, which is included in Annex 7.

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                 Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of roads and quality mark > 12 at Data collection underway.                                Paved: (T>250 veh/day) 46%
end or 2001.                                                                                          Earth: (T>50 veh/day) 28%
                                                                                                      Rural: (T>25 veh/day) 37%
Index of VOC in 2001 (100 in 1997)                  Data collection underway.                      Not available
Paved: 99; Earth 89; Rural: 94
 Creation of public works equipment rental          Completed.                                     Restructured to semi-private company;
company with private operators                                                                     registered 9/2002.
Execution ratio of road maintenance program Ongoing.                                               2001: 74%
above 80%                                                                                            2002: 45%
Discounted value at 12% of benefits for civil       100%
works included in project >0


Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                 Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Creation of Road Maintenance Fund                   Completed                                      Created 11/99; operational 8/2001
Restructuring of DTP                                Completed.                                     Restructured and convered to DGTP 2/1999;
                                                                                                   retrenchment plan completed 5/2000.
Restructuring of the Road Laboratory                Completed.                                     Restructured to semi-private company;
                                                                                                   registered 9/2003.
State disengagement of road maintenance             Completed in all areas of the country.         Completed in all areas of the country, as of
execution, except in unsafe areas.                                                                 5/2000.

1End of project
Additional Project and Sector Indicators Agreed at Negotiations:

                       Indicator                                Target                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                             Value/Date
Road Maintenance:
Average overrun on cost of road maintenance contracts            N/A        No overruns in 2001 and 2002
(CAFER)
Average delays in contract execution (CAFER)                     N/A        No delays in 2001 and 2002
Average time of payment of the contractors (CAFER)               N/A        7 to 15 days in 2001; 30 to 45 days in 2002
Ratio of national enterprises contracted out (CAFER)             N/A        100% in 2001; 64% in 2002 (international contract for
                                                                            urban roads)
Kilometers of roads actually regravelled compared to          1,060 km      545 full regravelling
estimation                                                                  890 spot improvement
                                                                            Paved network spot improvements
Works cost compared to estimation at appraisal            $ 20.891 million
Road Transport:
Evolution of vehicles' age and condition                                                            See table
Axle loads of trucks                                                        Two axle load control stations functional on Benin-Niger
                                                                            corridor. One station under construction on
                                                                            Niamey-Dosso Road and two stations on Niamey
                                                                            ­Burina Faso planned (EU financing). No other stations
                                                                            are functional.
Project Management:
Average time between launching of bids and bid opening           N/A                                8 weeks
(engineering studies & works)
Average time between bid opening and awards                      N/A                               13 weeks
Average time between award and signing                           N/A                                6 weeks
Ratio of actual disbursements versus disbursements at            N/A
appraisal
Capacity Building:
 Ratio of local and regional consulting firms registered         N/A
on short lists and awarded contracts
 Number of people trained                                        N/A




                                                                      - 15 -

   Sector Indicators                                                          1997        1998      1999      2000     2001        2002
   Road Maintenance                                                                                                     CAFER
   Amount of road maintenance budget (billion FCFA)                                                                       5.7          5.85
   Resources allocated to the road maintenance (billion FCFA)                    3.10      3.66       3.57     4.22      4.72          3.60
   Amount spent on road maintenance (milliards FCFA)                             3.10      3.66       2.90     0.04      1.68          2.89
   Resources allocated to the road sector in the PIP 1/                          20.8      12.6       7.0
   Execution ratios for the budget and PIP
   Evolution of traffic on the roads maintained by the project
   Amount and number of road maintenance contracts (billiards                                                          145         63
   FCFA) awarded with national budget financing                                                                        $ 4,2 m.    $ 2,6 m.
   Percentage of budget allocated to contracts                                                                         100%        96%
   Arrears on contracts financed by the Road Fund (billion FCFA)                                                       0,462       0,313
   Transport
   Evolution of road transport tariffs                                         See
                                                                               table
   Restructuring of SNTN completed
   Road tolls in service between Cotonou et Parakou                                                                    Two
                                                                                                                       stations
                                                                                                                       Function
                                                                                                                       al
   OCBN's monopoly abolished                                                                                           Concessi
                                                                                                                       on study
                                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                                       progress
   Statistics on international transport                                       See
                                                                               Table
   1/Strategie BCEOM (12/02), p. 49


    Evolution des tarifs de transports - Voyageurs (FCFA)
          Axes/
     Transporteurs             SNTV                     EHGM                 RTV           Transporteurs ind.            Moyenne
                                                 1997-                  1997-
                       1997-2000 2001-2002       2000      2001-2002     2000   2001-2002 1997-2000 2001-2002 1997-2000 2001-2002 % change
       Niamey-Arlit
        (1120 km)        21850         18575                 16100               17000     16100      16100    18975      16944     -11%
     Niamey-Zinder
         (891 km)        14850         12625                 11200               11900     10400      11000    12625      11681     -7%
     Niamey-Ouaga
         (514 km)        11500         11500                                                7600      8100      9550       9800      3%
        Moyenne          16067         14233                 13650               14450     11367      11733    13717      12808     -7%
Source: SNTV, EHGM, RTM



    Evolution des tarifs de transports - Marchandises (FCFA)
     Axes/Produits               Riz                    Farine               Sucre             Friperies        Prod. Chimiques            Moyenne
                                                 1997-                  1997-                                                                         %
                       1997-2000 2001-2002       2000      2001-2002     2000   2001-2002 1997-2000 2001-2002 1997-2000 2001-2002 1997-2000 2001-2002 change
        Togolais         36281         32000     36331       32000      36373    32000     34917      32000    67954      55000    42371     36600     -14%
        Ghaneen          32992         29000     33079       29000      33164    29000     30578      29000    56631      65000    37289     36200     -3%
        Beninois                       29000                 29000               29000                29000                                  29000
        Moyenne          34637         30000     34705       30000      34769    30000     32748      30000    62293      60000    39830     33933     -15%
    Sources: L'Observatoire National - Revue des Statistiques 1997-2000; Revue Economique 2000-2001




                                                                                  - 16 -

IMPORTATIONS

Importations de produits par tonne par corridor - Benin
                                    1997          1998      1999     2000    2001     2002   % Change
Cereales                              46666          45000    30000   33334   40651     53715    15%
Produits alimentaires                 38333          50000    45000    3334   19379     24039   -37%
Textiles                              21667          25834    31667   31667   24920     28549    32%
Materiaux de construction             11667          10000     8334   28334   16510     22706    95%
Hydrocarbures                         23334          23334    40000   58333   35390     34013    46%
Produits chimiques                    23334          21667    28333   21667   16728      2006   -91%
Autres produits                       23334          33334    30000   20000   22369     27084    16%
Total                                188335         209169   213334   196669  175947   192112     2%

Importations de produits par tonne par corridor - Togo
                                    1997          1998      1999     2000    2001     2002   % Change
Cereales                              40000          74000    34000   28000   38649     36361    -9%
Produits alimentaires                 36000          46000    10000   10000   12918     18376   -49%
Textiles                              15000          22500    10000   10000    4832     12407   -17%
Materiaux de construction             14000          54000    72000   60000   73656     73120   422%
Hydrocarbures                         42000          72000    88000   76000   58556     69263    65%
Produits chimiques                     6000          14000     4000   14000   16996     18365   206%
Autres produits                       14000          10000    50000   22000   40857     23478    68%
Total                                167000         292500   268000   220000  246464   251370    51%

Importations de produits par tonne par corridor - Ghana
                                    1997          1998      1999     2000    2001     2002   % Change
Cereales                               8334          35417    41667   33334   107431   181330  2076%
Produits alimentaires                 16667         200000    70833   100000  103959   107132   543%
Textiles                                   0            0         0       0     422      1007
Materiaux de construction                  0          2084     8334    8334    7747     11850
Hydrocarbures                              0            0         0       0   35390     34013
Produits chimiques                    12500          12500     6250   12500    4723      6280   -50%
Autres produits                            0          4167     8334    8334    4451      6111
Total                                 37501         254168   135418   162502  264123   347723   827%

Importations de produits par tonne - tous corridors
                                    1997          1998      1999     2000    2001     2002   % Change
Cereales                              95000         154417   105667   94668   186731   271406   186%
Produits alimentaires                 91000         296000   125833   113334  136256   149547    64%
Textiles                              36667          48334    41667   41667   30174     41963    14%
Materiaux de construction             25667          66084    88668   96668   97913    107676   320%
Hydrocarbures                         65334          95334   128000   134333  129336   137289   110%
Produits chimiques                    41834          48167    38583   48167   38447     26651   -36%
Autres produits                       37334          47501    88334   50334   67677     56673    52%
Total                                392836         755837   616752   579171  686534   791205   101%



EXPORTATIONS
Exportations par tonne - tous corridors
                                    1997          1998      1999     2000    2001     2002   % Change
Oignons                               36191          49748    29289   91631             81385   125%
Niebe                                  2791           5503     7460   28543              8532   206%
Arachide                                889           1340      299    1260               144   -84%
Uranate                                5518           2153     2960                      4721   -14%
Autres produits vegataux               5339           2059     5057    8848
Total                                 50728          60803    45065   130282      0     94782    87%
Animaux (tetes)                                              477389   809963           869284    82%
Animaux (tetes): % change 1999-2002




                                                              - 17 -

 Parc Automobile selon les categories et l'age (Niamey, 2002)
                                       Voitures                        Tracteur
                                       Particulier Camionne                s    Remorque
     Age/Categories          Moto         es          ttes    Camions routiers      s     Autocars   Totaux
           0-6                981         968          429       43        7        8        35       2471
          6-11                455        1522          498       50       59        2        42       2628
          11-16               440        7660         1047      163       253      47        661      10271
          16-21               797       13748         1208      285       410      299      1157      17904
          21-26               743       10159         1453      609       617      615       911      15107
        26 a plus             92         2654          796      406       398      727       195      5268
         Totaux              3508       36711         5431      1556     1744     1698      3001      53649
 Source: DTTMF


 Evolution des tarifs de transports - Voyageurs (FCFA)
  Axes/Transporteurs                SNTV                  EHGM                RTV          Transporteurs ind.          Moyenne
                                                                2001-    1997-              1997-             1997-     2001-
                           1997-2000 2001-2002 1997-2000        2002     2000   2001-2002   2000   2001-2002   2000      2002  %change


 Niamey-Arlit (1120 km)      21850      18575                  16100              17000     16100     16100   18975     16944   -11%
   Niamey-Zinder (891
          km)                14850      12625                  11200              11900     10400     11000   12625     11681    -7%
   Niamey-Ouaga (514
          km)                11500      11500                                               7600      8100     9550      9800    3%
        Moyenne              16067      14233                  13650              14450     11367     11733   13717     12808    -7%
Source: SNTV, EHGM, RTM



 Evolution des tarifs de transports - Marchandises (FCFA)
     Axes/Produits                  Riz                   Farine              Sucre            Friperies     Produits Chimiques       Moyenne
                                                                2001-    1997-              1997-             1997-     2001-   1997-           %
                           1997-2000 2001-2002 1997-2000        2002     2000   2001-2002   2000   2001-2002   2000      2002   2000  2001-2002 change
        Togolais             36281      32000         36331    32000     36373    32000     34917     32000   67954     55000   42371  36600     -14%
        Ghaneen              32992      29000         33079    29000     33164    29000     30578     29000   56631     65000   37289  36200     -3%
        Beninois                        29000                  29000              29000               29000                            29000
        Moyenne              34637      30000         34705    30000     34769    30000     32748     30000   62293     60000   39830  33933     -15%
 Sources: L'Observatoire National - Revue des Statistiques 1997-2000; Revue Economique 2000-2001




                                                                               - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Earth Road Regravelling                                     20.89          19.47               93
Improvement of Road Administration & Management              2.81            0.79              28
Rural Roads                                                  5.61            4.07              73
Land Transport Department                                    0.67            0.85             127
Environment                                                  0.25            0.25             100
Project Management                                           0.27            0.07              26
Railway Concessioning                                        0.00            3.59

Total Baseline Cost                                         30.50          29.09
                        Total Project Costs                 30.50          29.09
                  Total Financing Required                  30.50          29.09
Totals may not add up due to rounding.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           24.70            0.00         0.00         0.00         24.70
                                  (22.20)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (22.20)
2. Goods                           0.35             0.25         0.20         0.00          0.80
                                   (0.35)          (0.25)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.80)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         4.30         0.00          4.30
Technical Assistance               (0.00)          (0.00)      (4.30)         (0.00)       (4.30)
4. Training and Seminars
5. Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00         0.10         0.00          0.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)       (0.10)
6. PPF Refinancing                 0.00             0.00         0.60         0.00          0.60
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (0.60)
7. Severance Payments              0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           25.05            0.25         5.20         0.00         30.50
                                  (22.55)          (0.25)      (5.20)         (0.00)      (28.00)




                                                - 19 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 9.12              10.98              0.00             0.00             20.10
                                          (7.58)             (8.96)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (16.54)
  2. Goods                                 0.59               0.00              0.08             0.00              0.67
                                          (0.59)             (0.00)            (0.08)            (0.00)           (0.67)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.90             0.00              5.90
  Technical Assistance                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.90)            (0.00)           (5.90)
  4. Training and Seminars
  5. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.38             0.00              0.38
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.36)            (0.00)           (0.36)
  6. PPF Refinancing                       0.00               0.00              0.40             0.00              0.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (0.40)
  7. Severance Payments                    0.00               0.00              3.05             0.00              3.05
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.05)            (0.00)           (3.05)
      Total                                9.71              10.98              9.81             0.00             30.50
                                          (8.17)             (8.96)            (9.79)            (0.00)           (26.92)
  Figures in total may not add up due to rounding.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Earth Road Regravelling       18.90         1.99                    17.70         1.79                  93.7      89.9
Improvement of Road            2.79         0.00                     0.77         0.02                  27.6      0.0
Administration &
Management
Rural Roads                    5.14         0.48                     3.72         0.35                  72.4      72.9
Land Transport                 0.66         0.01                     0.84         0.01                  127.3    100.0
Department
Environment                    0.25         0.00                     0.25         0.00                  100.0     0.0
Project Management             0.26         0.01                     0.05         0.00                  19.2      0.0
Railway Concessioning          0.00         0.00                     3.59         0.00                   0.0      0.0




                                                          - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

During appraisal, the economic evaluation of the project was limited to the physical investments in road
works, and the same approach is used under the ICR. A comparison was made between the rates of return
for investments (ERR) projected at appraisal, with the actual rates of return based on known investment
costs and traffic figures at the end of the project. The results are presented further below.

The investments financed under the project were for periodic maintenance / rehabilitation of existing earth
roads. The economic evaluation normally covers both the initial investment for periodic maintenance /
rehabilitation, plus the annual routine maintenance during the evaluation period. In this context, the life
cycle of the investment made in periodic maintenance / rehabilitation is defined as the time until the next
periodic maintenance or rehabilitation is due, and for the roads in question, the assumption is that periodic
maintenance needs to be done every five years. Thus, the time period to assess the economic rate of return
for the investments made in this project is five years. The ICR mission showed however that on the 6 roads
analyzed, little or no routine maintenance was actually carried out since the rehabilitation works, and the
annual routine maintenance costs were therefore zero. Calculations of net present value (NPV) and
economic rate of return (ERR) were based on actual costs (contract values for works and supervision) and
actual traffic data based on traffic counts for the five year period.

The ex-post evaluation of economic benefits of the Earth Roads component was carried out using the
Roads Economic Decision Model (RED) developed by the World Bank. The RED model is designed for
low-volume roads such as the project roads in Niger. It is able to compensate for the scarcity of reliable
data, normally needed for a full-fledged economic evaluation using the HDM model. Given data on the road
conditions, vehicle fleet characteristics, travel speeds and vehicle operating costs, the RED model computes
a series of roughness versus vehicle operating cost (VOC) relationships by interpolating polynomial
functions of the above characteristics. These functions allow the estimation of VOC and roughness in the
"before project" situation, by entering the known average speed of vehicles on these roads.

For the "with project" situation, the road and traffic characteristics were taken from information provided
by the Ministry of Public Works Road data base. However, the information provided for some of the
project roads seemed unrealistic, and it was decided to analyze only those roads for which reliable data is
available. These were only for four of the six Phase 1 roads and two of the thirteen roads included in Phase
2. The economic analysis was thus carried out for the following roads:

               Phase                          Road                      Length (km)
              Phase 1       Kadata-Kornaka                                   60
                            Tera-Yatakala                                   116
                            Teberam-Badaguichiri                            150
                            Tikim-Adaré                                      78
             Phase 2        Keita-RN25pk22                                   54
                            Tchadoua-Mayahi                                  53
                            Total                                           511


In all of the 6 cases, the roads were in extremely poor condition and almost impassable for part of the year
before the investment. For this reason, the investment had the effect of releasing a vital constraint, leading
to a relatively large increase in traffic immediately following the works, especially on those roads carrying
international traffic (particularly Tera-Yatakala and Tikim-Adaré which are respectively on the Burkina



                                                      - 21 -

Faso and Nigerian borders). It is expected however, that this traffic will level off beyond the initial period
of analysis. Investment costs per kilometer ranged from US$ 5,085 to US$ 19,436, with an average of US$
14,900 on Phase I roads and US$ 6,900 on Phase II roads which used the "spot improvement" approach.
The analysis showed that all the roads had positive NPVs at a 12% discount rate, with the rates of return
ranging from 45 % to 119 %. The sensitivity analyses shows that NPV would be positive even if one
assumes a 25 % lower traffic level, and that traffic levels would have to be from 50 % to 80 % lower to
arrive at a zero NPV. The economic analysis shows that, within the five year periodic maintenance life
cycle, periodic maintenance investments on the earth roads had relatively high rates of return, largely
because initial conditions were extremely bad. However, even though road conditions are today still much
better than before the investment, they are steadily declining due to lack of routine maintenance. It is clear
that rates of return would be even higher if routine maintenance would have been carried out.

Main Assumptions

General:
The basic approach taken in this analysis is that investments made on existing earth roads essentially
involve periodic maintenance, and that the economic evaluation is therefore assessing the maintenance
strategy on these roads. In this context, the life cycle of the investment is defined as the time until the next
periodic maintenance after the investment. For the roads in question, the assumption is that periodic
maintenance would occur every five years. Based on this, the time period to assess the real economic return
for investments made is assumed to be five years.

Traffic estimates:
Traffic counts have been carried out by the Ministry of Public Works on a sporadic basis since 1985, from
which annual daily traffic levels were derived. For the six roads, all built in 1999 (Phase 1) and 2000
(Phase 2), traffic data was available for either 1997, 1998 or 1999, and 2002. This provided a means to
estimate the level of traffic before and after the works. For most of these roads, the investment released a
vital constraint, leading to a relatively large increase in traffic immediately following the investment,
especially on those roads carrying international traffic (particularly Tera-Yatakala and Tikim-Adaré which
are respectively on the Burkina Faso and Nigerian borders). It is expected however, that this traffic will
level off beyond the initial period of analysis. The table below summarizes the reported and estimated daily
traffic levels.

                                                              Annual Average Daily Traffic
                                                                       (vehicles/day)

                                     Road                        Before:          End of Period:

                                                            1997/1998/1999             2003
             Phase 1 Kadata-Kornaka                                74                   199
                       Tera-Yatakala                               49                   303
                       Teberam-Badaguichiri                       110                   152
                       Tikim-Adaré                                 39                   276
             Phase 2 Keita-RN25pk22                                98                   312
                       Tchadoua-Mayahi                             51                   106




                                                     - 22 -

Cost Estimates:
The investment costs used in the analysis were based on the actual costs of rehabilitation, including design
and supervision, but excluding taxes. There was little or no annual routine maintenance on the six roads
analyzed, and the annual routine maintenance costs are therefore estimated to be zero.

Road Roughness
Based on the initial road conditions, it was estimated that the international road index for road roughness
(IRI) was, on the average, 15 before the works. After the works, the IRI was estimated to be 5 for Phase 1
roads (full rehabilitation) and 7 for Phase 2 roads (less complete rehabilitation and spot improvements.

Results

User impact (VOC and Time savings):
Attachment 1 summarizes the results of the analysis of benefits, quantified in terms of savings in vehicle
operating costs (VOC) and time for two roads ­ one from Phase 1 (Kadata-Kornaka road) and one from
Phase 2 (Tchadoua-Mayahi road), which are typical of the results for all the roads in each phase. The
weighted average road user savings (VOC + time) for all vehicle types was 37% on the Phase 1 road and
31% on the Phase 2 road. For Phase 1 roads, VOC were reduced by 40% and time was reduced by 25%,
while VOC and time savings on the Phase 2 road were reduced by 34% and 25% respectively.

Project Investment Costs
The actual project cost includes the cost of design, supervision and construction. This is shown in the table
below. Average cost per km were about 50% less for Phase 2 roads, which used the spot improvement
method.

                         Road                Length         Investment          Investment
                                               (km)         Cost (US$)        Cost/km (US$)
  Phase 1         Kadata-Kornaka                60           764,407              12,740
                    Tera-Yatakala              116          2,254,549             19,436
               Teberam-Badaguichiri            150          2,033,173             13,554
                     Tikim-Adaré                78           993,729              12,740
 Phase 2          Keita-RN25pk22                54           466,745               8,612
                 Tchadoua-Mayahi                53           271,555               5,085
                      All roads                511          6,784,158             13,276

Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR):
The net present value and internal rates of return were calculated for both traffic scenarios. Financial
benefits and costs were converted to economic values using a conversion factor of 85%. The IRRs are
rather high, ranging from 45% to 119%, with the net present value ranging from US$ 482,000 to US$ 2,4
million.




                                                     - 23 -

                                   Road                        NPV at
                                                             12% (US$           IRR
                                                                  M)
    Phase 1        Kadata-Kornaka                               1.109          70%
                   Tera-Yatakala                                1.966           45%
                  Teberam-Badaguichiri                          2.400           66%
                  Tikim-Adaré                                   1.057           47%
    Phase 2        Keita-RN25pk22                               1.558           119%
                   Tchadoua-Mayahi                              0.482           83%

Sensitivity analysis:
Although the analysis was carried out using actual cost and traffic data, a sensitivity analysis was carried
out, to test the impact of possible variations in actual traffic. This analysis, summarized in the table below,
shows that even if observed traffic levels were 25% less, NPVs are still positive at 12% discount rate. An
assessment of the switching values reveals that observed traffic levels would have to be from 50 to 80
percent lower to reach an NPV of zero. Details are provided in Attachments 2 and 3.

                                          Base Normal Traffic -25%
                        Road                NPV at 12% (US$ M)                       ERR
 Phase 1       Kadata-Kornaka                        1.509                           51%
               Tera-Yatakala                         2.862                           31%
              Teberam-Badaguichiri                   4.417                           31%
              Tikim-Adaré                            1.532                           33%
 Phase 2       Keita-RN25pk22                        2.518                           107%
               Tchadoua-Mayahi                       0.806                           71%


Conclusion

The economic analysis shows that, within the five year life cycle for periodic maintenance / rehabilitation
on earth roads, investments for such periodic maintenance under the project had relatively high rates of
return, largely because initial conditions were extremely bad. However, even though road conditions are
still much better than before the investment, they are today steadily declining due to lack of routine
maintenance, which means that the sustainability of the investments is at best uncertain.




                                                     - 24 -

           Attachment 1: Estimated Economic Savings Resulting from Road Improvement:
                                  1-Kadata-Kornaka road (Phase 1):

         Economic                     FinancialUnitTripCosts($/veh-trip)(1999dollars)
           R.U.C.
          Savings    WithoutProject          WithProject                        Variation
            (%)   VOC    Time    Total  VOC Time Total VOC Time Total VOC Time Total
Car      -45%    12.99  4.31   17.3    6.28    3.21   9.49   -6.71   -1.1    -7.81   -52% -25% -45%
Lightbus -35%    20.27  8.34   28.61   12.77   5.8    18.57 -7.5     -2.54   -10.04 -37% -30% -35%
Light    -39%    26.6   0      26.6    16.22   0      16.22 -10.38 0         -10.38 -39% 0%    -39%
truck
Medium -43%      40.11  0      40.11   22.72   0      22.72 -17.39 0         -17.39 -43% 0%    -43%
truck
Heavy    -34%    35.63  0      35.63   23.37   0      23.37 -12.26 0         -12.26 -34% 0%    -34%
truck


2-Tchadoua-Mayahi road (Phase 2):

         Economic                   FinancialUnitTripCosts($/veh-trip)(1999dollars)
           R.U.C.
          Savings    WithoutProject        WithProject                         Variation
            (%)   VOC    Time   Total   VOC     Time Total VOC Time          Total VOC Time    Total
Car      -39%    11.56 3.84   15.4    6.44     2.95   9.38  -5.12   -0.89   -6.02   -44% -23% -39%
Lightbus -31%    18.04 7.42   25.46   12.14    5.38   17.52 -5.89   -2.05   -7.94   -33% -28% -31%
Light    -32%    23.68 0      23.68   16.08    0      16.08 -7.6    0       -7.6    -32% 0%   -32%
truck
Medium -36%      35.7  0      35.7    22.84    0      22.84 -12.86 0        -12.86 -36% 0%    -36%
truck
Heavy    -28%    31.72 0      31.72   22.77    0      22.77 -8.95   0       -8.95   -28% 0%   -28%
truck




                                                   - 25 -

Attachment 2: Sensitivity Analysis and Switching values:

                        Multi- Net      IRR Equivalent  IRR Multi- Net      IRR Equivalent   IRR
                        plier Present   (%) Annual Net(%) plier    Present  (%)  Annual Net (%)
                        Factor Value        Benefits        Factor Value         Benefits
                               (US$M)       ($/km)                 (US$M)        ($/km)

BaseCase:
1-Kadata-Kornaka                  1.109 70%         4576 44%           1.109 70%         4576 44%
2-Tera-Yatakala                   1.966 45%         4198 34%           1.966 45%         4198 34%
3-Tebaram-Badaguichiri              2.4 66%         3964 39%             2.4 66%         3964 39%
4-Tikim-Adaré                     1.057 47%         3355 37%           1.057 47%         3355 37%
5-Keita-RN25pk22                  1.558 119%        7118 67%           1.558 119%        7118 67%
6-Tchadoua-Mayahi                 0.482 83%         2237 48%           0.482 83%         2237 48%
SensitivityCases:

1-Kadata-Kornaka
BaseNormalTraffic          0.75   0.708 51%         2921 35%  1.25     1.509 87%         6231 51%
NormalTrafficGrowthRate    0.75     0.87 61%        3593 39%  1.25     1.382 79%         5706 49%
2-Tera-Yatakala
BaseNormalTraffic          0.75     1.07 31%        2285 25%  1.25     2.862 57%         6111 41%
NormalTrafficGrowthRate    0.75   1.035 32%         2210 25%  1.25     3.197 59%         6826 43%
3-Tebaram-Badaguichiri
BaseNormalTraffic          0.75   1.968 31%         2074 22%  1.25     4417 48%          4653 29%
NormalTrafficGrowthRate    0.75   2.038 33%         2147 22%  1.25     4681 47%          4931 30%
4-Tikim-Adaré
BaseNormalTraffic          0.75   0.581 33%         1846 28%  1.25     1532 60%          4864 45%
NormalTrafficGrowthRate    0.75   0.412 29%         1309 24%  1.25     2121 68%          6734 53%
5-Keita-RN25pk22
BaseNormalTraffic          0.75   1.069 91%         4886 55%  1.25     2.046 146%        9351 76%
NormalTrafficGrowthRate    0.75   1.168 103%        5339 58%  1.25     2.058 137%        9403 77%
6-Tchadoua-Mayahi
BaseNormalTraffic          0.75   0.304 60%         1410 38%  1.25     0.806 123%        3741 63%

NormalTrafficGrowthRate    0.75   0.403 75%         1868 44%  1.25      0.57 92%         2645 53%




                                                 - 26 -

Attachment 3: Switching values:

                                Base Case    Case that Yields Net Present Value = 0
                                 Value
                                              Value         Factor        Change
1-Kadata-Kornaka
Base Normal Traffic (veh/day)           74          23             0.31          -69%
Normal Traffic Growth Rate %         5.30%      -3.90%            -0.73         -172.5
2-Tera-Yatakala
Base Normal Traffic (veh/day)           49          22             0.45      -54.90%
Normal Traffic Growth Rate %       10.10%        3.50%             0.34      -65.60%
3-Tebaram-Badaguichiri
Base Normal Traffic (veh/day)          110          39             0.36      -64.20%
Normal Traffic Growth Rate %         1.70%      -9.20%            -5.36     -636.50%
4-Tikim-Adaré
Base Normal Traffic (veh/day)           39          17             0.44      -55.60%
Normal Traffic Growth Rate %       10.80%           5%             0.46      -54.20%
5-Keita-RN25pk22
Base Normal Traffic (veh/day)           98          20              0.2      -79.70%
Normal Traffic Growth Rate %         6.30%      -6.40%            -1.01     -201.40%
6-Tchadoua-Mayahi
Base Normal Traffic (veh/day)           51          17             0.32      -67.60%
Normal Traffic Growth Rate %         3.90%      -4.80%            -1.23     -222.70%




                                          - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1996,                  5    TEAM LEADER/TRANSPORT
              12/1996,                       ECONOMIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); RESEARCH
                                             ASSISTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/1997                   5    TEAM LEADER/
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                             (1); TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RESEARCH ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              11/1997                   4    TEAM LEADER/ TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1); LEGAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIT
                                             (1); PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              02/18/1998                3    SNR. TRANS.                      S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ROAD
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              07/07/1998                2    SNR. TRANS. ECONOMIST            S               S
                                             (1); ROAD ENGINEER (1)
              04/07/1999                5    TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);         S               U
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SPECIALIST
                                             OF ENVIRONM (1); RURAL
                                             ROAD SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              06/18/1999                4    SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);            S               U
                                             OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); RURAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/10/2000                6    OPERATION OFFICER (1);           S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVEVELOPMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             INFORMATION SPECIALIST




                                              - 28 -

                                            (1); STAFF ASSISTANT (1)
               05/19/2000              4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            TEAM MEMBER (1); URBAN
                                            TRANSP.SPECIAL. (1);
                                            HIGHWAYS ENGINEER (1)
               08/21/2000              3    OPERATIONAL OFFICER (1);          S    U
                                            RURAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                            RURAL TRANS. SPECIALIS
                                            (1)
               06/18/2001              8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            STAFF ASSISTANT (2) SR.
                                            HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1); SR.
                                            TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                            SENIOR TRANSPORT
                                            ECONOMIST (1); HIGHWAY
                                            ENGINEER (1); SENIOR
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               12/07/2001              6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            STAFF ASSISTANT (2);
                                            HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCE SPECIALIST (1)
               03/03/2002              2    RURAL TRANSPORT                   S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONAL OFFICER (1)
               07/16/2002              2    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);             S    S
                                            STAFF ASSISTANT (1)
               02/28/2003              7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            STAFF ASSISTANT (2);
                                            HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                            ENGINEER/INTERN (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCE SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               06/13/2003             1     ECONOMIST (1)                     S    U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            49.4                         177.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   9.5                          42.0
  Supervision                          185.9                         478.0
  ICR                                       5                          30.0
  Total                                249.8                         727.6




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


Ratings are explained and commented in the ICR text.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

This Annex presents two supporting documents:

A: Note prepared in March 2003 by European Union (EU) office in Niamey on the Niger Road
Maintenance Fund

B: Borrower's contribution to ICR (Original text as received by Government, without modifications)

----------------------------------------------




                                                  - 32 -

Annex 7 - A: European Union (EU) Note on Niger Road Maintenance Fund


                           Note sur l'entretien routier au Niger

                                               Mars 2003

4 Principaux éléments entravent aujourd'hui encore le bon fonctionnement de la CAFER :

1) une très grande instabilité dans ses ressources : plus de 95% sont constituées de la dotation de
l'Etat (qui a toujours été versée à moins de 55% de la dotation initiale) et des recettes des péages
(taux de réalisation encore plus faible).

-       En ce qui concerne les ressources budgétaires, la CAFER appuyée par la Banque
Mondiale préconise le remplacement de la taxe sur les produits pétroliers par une redevance
d'usage routier sur les produits pétroliers qui permettrait l'affectation directe des fonds collectés
sur un compte de la CAFER, sans passer par le Trésor. La Délégation de la Commission
européenne n'approuve pas cette méthode, principalement parce qu'elle déroge au principe
d'unité de caisse qui dans un pays comme le Niger reste primordial. En effet, la situation de
trésorerie et la faiblesse des recettes budgétaires sont telles qu'il n'est pas raisonnable d'exiger du
gouvernement le blocage d'une partie de ses ressources sans option de reprise en cas de
problèmes macroéconomiques ou de survenue d'événements exogènes pouvant déstabiliser les
équilibres.
-       Pour ce qui est des ressources de péage, la CAFER semble vouloir dénoncer la convention
avec la CCAAIN et faire un vrai appel d'offres au secteur privé. La « faisabilité politique » de la
chose n'est pas garantie. Si aucune action n'est possible dans ce sens, il faudrait envisager
d'activer le dispositif dont il a été question au moment de la mise en place de la CAFER, à savoir :
(i) le rapprochement mensuel des données du concessionnaires à ceux de la banque de données
routières, (ii) un système de contrôles inopinés au niveau des péages, (iii) un audit technique et
financier de la gestion des postes de péage.

2) L'instabilité de ses ressources rend la CAFER non-autonome et très vulnérable au « chantage
politique » : pour bénéficier d'une partie de sa dotation budgétaire, la CAFER est obligée de se
plier à des injonctions et à remplir des missions qui ne sont pas les siennes (ex : dépenses non
prévues dans le programme, ou celles qui sont tout sauf de l'entretien).

3) L'hégémonie de la DGTP sur la CAFER : elle fait la programmation, lance les marchés, engage
les montants et gère les marchés, sans réelle communication avec la CAFER. Cette déconnexion
amène à engager des ressources qui n'existent pas toujours, avec pour conséquence entre autres
l'accumulation des arriérés de paiement (et donc une perte de confiance des PME) et le report sur
l'exercice prochain du gap de financement constaté sur l'année en cours.

4) Les textes régissant la CAFER présentent certaines lacunes et imprécisions, notamment en ce
qui concerne le rôle des différentes tutelles, la nature des travaux à réaliser, la part à affecter à la
voirie urbaine, les frais de fonctionnement de la CAFER, la rémunération de la DGTP.

La Banque Mondiale propose l'amendement de ces textes législatifs, pour tenter d'améliorer le



                                                  - 33 -

fonctionnement de la CAFER.

Les options de la DCE sur l'entretien routier

Les interventions de la DCE sur le secteur routier sont très importantes : 35.000.000  environ
ont été mis sur le 8ème FED et 84.000.000  sur le 9ème où le transport est un secteur prioritaire.
Ces chiffres concernent les interventions sur programme indicatif national. Des financement
existent également sur programme indicatif régional.

Les actions de réhabilitation et d'entretien périodique financés au Niger par l'UE visent à mettre
un frein à l'évolution accélérée des dégradations du réseau routier. Pour ce faire, la Délégation
doit également s'assurer (1) que le gouvernement s'acquitte de ses engagements budgétaires en
matière d'entretien courant, (2) que ces allocations augmentent dans le temps.

La DCE agit alors à travers :

-       l'appui budgétaire
Sur un programme en cours d'appui au budget de l'Etat de 20.000.000  en 2 tranches, la mise à
disposition de la CAFER de sa dotation budgétaire 2002 a été mise comme une conditionnalité au
versement de la 2nde tranche.

Sur un programme triennal d'appui au budget de l'Etat de 90.000.000  en préparation, la
Commission se propose d'inclure 2 indicateurs finances publiques relatifs à l'entretien routier : le
montant de la dotation budgétaire et la part réelle des fonds transférés. La libération d'un certain
montant de l'appui budgétaire serait assujetti à la réalisation de ces indicateurs.

-       le programme transport
Le programme transport 9ème FED de 84.000.000  est en cours de préparation et commencera
probablement en 2004. Il consistera essentiellement en la réhabilitation de routes primaires
classées prioritaires par l'UEMOA, en un appui au programme d'entretien périodique dans le
cadre de la stratégie d'entretien réalisée en 2002, et en la construction de pistes rurales dans les
zones minières ou à potentiel minier.

Des indicateurs et mesures seront certainement identifiés notamment relatifs à la CAFER, et mis
en conditionnalités dans le programme, sous une forme et à des nivaux qui restent à déterminer.
Le but étant la consolidation des résultats de la reforme de l'entretien routier notamment en
matière de régularisation et d'augmentation des ressources de la CAFER, de renforcement du
Conseil des Routes, d'une gestion technique et administrative autonome, d'une définition dans les
normes d'un programme annuel pour l'entretien courant et périodique, d'un suivi régulier de l'état
du réseau.

La DCE préconise également :

-       la mobilisation d'une portion des ressources PPTE, après l'atteinte du point d'achèvement
en 2004, pour accroître les fonds réservés à l'entretien routier et financer la stratégie du
sous-secteur routier actuellement en définition par les autorités nationales. L'entretien routier
s'inscrit parfaitement dans la stratégie de lutte contre la pauvreté dans ses différents aspects :




                                                  - 34 -

(1)    accès aux services de base : 70% des routes en terre sont actuellement dans un état
mauvais ou très mauvais. Leur entretien permettrait d'améliorer la mobilité des populations
pauvres : accès aux centres de santé, aux écoles, aux autres centres sociaux.
(2)    recherche de croissance soutenue / développement des secteurs productifs : création
d'emploi et de revenu dans le secteur du BTP et des activités connexes, réduction des coûts de
transport.
      Les fonds disponibles au titre de l'initiative PPTE, qui seront de l'ordre de 40 milliards
      FCFA par an après l'atteinte du point d'achèvement, ne pourront pas être absorbés par les
      secteurs aujourd'hui ciblés, à savoir la santé et éducation.

A ce niveau, une position commune et une action concertée des principaux bailleurs
(IBW-FR-UE) est nécessaire pour amener le gouvernement à consacrer une partie des ressources
PPTE à ce but, en plus de la dotation actuelle.




                                               - 35 -

Annex 7 - B Borrower's Contribution to ICR


                              REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER

                        CABINET DU PREMIER MINISTRE
                   BUREAU NATIONAL DE COORDINATION
       PROJET DE REHABILITATION DES INFRASTRUCTURES DE TRANSPORT




                                 Crédit 3026-NIR



        RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE L'EMPRUNTEUR




                                       Juillet 2003
                                  PRIT :Crédit 3026 NIR




                                          - 36 -

                                RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE L'EMPRUNTEUR

                                                                  SOMMAIRE

1        bilan général ..................................................................................................                             3
2        objectifs et composantes du projet.......................................................................                                    3
2.1      le contexte initial ....................................................................................................                     3
2.2      les objectifs .............................................................................................................................. 3
2.3      les composantes       ...................................................................................................................    3
3        déroulement et évènements majeurs ................................................................................                           4
3.1      la mise en vigueur ...................................................................................................................       4
3.2      la revue à mi-parcours          ..........................................................................................................   4
3.3      le report de la date d'achèvement du projet .......................................................................                          4
3.4    l'exécution financière du crédit ..................................................................................................            4
4        exécution des composantes ..........................................................................                                         5
4.1      les travaux d'entretien routier........................................................................                                      5
     4.1.1             la première phase des travaux .......................................................................
5
    4.1.2     la deuxième phase des travaux ....................................................................                                      5
     4.1.3     les travaux d'urgence................................................................................                                  5
4.2      le projet pilote de contruction des routes rurales................................................. 5
4.3      les réformes institutionnelles........................................................................5
   4.3.1 la gestion de l'entretien routier......................................................................                                      5
         4.3.1.1 la mise en place du Caisse Autonome pour le Financement de l'Entretien Routier                                                       5
         4.3.1.2 la restructuration de la Direction des Travaux Publics ............................. 5
         4.3.1.3 la privatisation de la Direction du Matériel des Travaux Publics.................... 5
         4.3.1.4 la restructuration du Laboratoire Nationanal des Travaux Publics ..............                                           6
  4.3.2    le transport routier.......................................................................................                                6
         4.3.2.1 la restructuration du Conseil Nigérien des Utilisateurs deTransports Publics                                              6
         4.3.2.2 la restructuration de la Société Nationale des Transports Nigériens ...........                                           6
         4.3.2.3 la restructuration de l'OCBN.................................................................                                        6
         4.3.2 4     la réforme du cadre institutionnel...........................................................                                    7
         4.3.2.5     le tour de rôle...................................................................................                               7
         4.3.2.6     la sécurité routière............................................................................                                 7
         4.3.2.7    la convention Sida-Transport...............................................................                                       7
         4.3.2.8     les appuis institutionnels...................................................................                                    7
4.4      l'Environnement...........................................................................................                                   7
4.5      la gestion du projet par le Gouvernement...........................................................                                          7
   4.5.1 le Bureau National de Coordination..................................................................                                         7
   4.5.2    l'exécution du projet....................................................................................                                 8
   4.5.3    les indicateurs de performance.......................................................................                                     8
5        la gestion du projet par l'ida...........................................................................                                    8
5.1      le suivi par les chargés de projet......................................................................                                     8
5.2      les non objections.........................................................................................                                  8
5.3      les décaissements directs..................................................................................                                  8
5.4      le compte spécial..............................................................................................                              8
6        Recommandations.......................................................................................                                       9
6.1      les travaux routiers.......................................................................................                                  9
6.2        le projet pilote routes rurales..........................................................................                                  9
6.3        le transport routier.......................................................................................                                9
6.4      les indicateurs de performance........................................................................                                       9
6.5      le compte spécial...........................................................................................                                 9
6.6      le programme sectoriel des transports...............................................................                                         10




                                                                         - 37 -

- 38 -

1         Biian général

    Le Projet de Réhabilitation des Infrastructures de Transports (PRIT), financé par le crédit N° 3026 de l'IDA, a
    été conçu en 1997 comme un ensemble cohérent de réformes institutionnelles, de remise à niveau d'une partie
    du réseau routier non revêtu et la mise en place d'une nouvelle stratégie de construction des routes rurales avec
    la participation des populations bénéficiaires dans le but de préparer un projet sectoriel des transports.

    1437km de routes ont été entretenues pour une prévision totale de 1060km, et des travaux d'urgence ont été
    exécutés relatifs à des opérations d'entretien courant et à la reprise du pont situé au PK 27 sur la route
    Niamey-Torodi.

    La plupart des réformes institutionnelles ont été mises en place.

    La stratégie de construction des routes rurales n'a pas pu être mise en place, mais la participation des
    populations a été effective.

2         objectifs et composantes du projet
2.1       le contexte initial

    Le Niger est un pays enclavé dont l'économie subit des coûts de transport élevés. Ses infrastructures routières
    étaient mal entretenues par manque de moyens suffisants. Les travaux d'entretien étaient effectués par la régie
    administrative dont l'efficacité n'était pas satisfaisante malgré l'intervention d'un premier projet sectoriel
    (PST Cr 1706-NIR) clos le 30 juin 1993. Aussi, le rapport d'achèvement du PST 1 (PCR, Report N° 13773 du
    9 décembre 1994) a recommandé l'établissement d'une politique d'entretien routier basée sur des critères
    économiques, de même que le rapport d'achèvement du Projet de Routes Rurales (Cr 886-NIR , clos le 30 juin
    1987, Rapport N° 7739 du 28 avril 1989) a de son côté mis l'accent sur la nécessité de résoudre le problème de
    l'insuffisance des ressources pour l'entretien des routes rurales. Il fallait donc stabiliser le financement de
    l'entretien routier auparavant pris en charge par le budget de l'Etat et soumis de ce fait au déséquilibre
    chronique des finances publiques.

    C'est dans ce contexte que le PRIT a été préparé et mis en vigueur le 12 mai 1998.

2.2       les objectifs

    Les objectifs globaux du Projet de Réhabilitation des Infrastructures de Transport étaient d'améliorer l'état du
    réseau routier, d'augmenter l'efficacité de l'exécution de l'entretien routier et de baisser les coûts de transport.
    Les moyens pour atteindre ces objectifs sont développés au niveau des composantes du projet.

2.3       les composantes

    Le projet comporte six composantes :
·         Routes en terre : Consiste à recharger 1060 km de routes en terre, en tenant compte des plans de
limitation des impacts environnementaux ;
·         Routes rurales : Consiste à construire, dans le cadre d'un projet pilote, 150 km de routes rurales avec la
participation des populations dans le but de tester la pérennisation de l'entretien ultérieur de ces infrastructures ;
·         Gestion et administration de l'entretien routier : Consiste à mettre en oeuvre des réformes institutionnelles
dans le but de privatiser l'exécution de l'entretien     routier et d'en assurer son efficacité ;
·         Transport routier : Consiste à libéraliser le secteur, à apporter un appui pour la préparation d'un plan
d'actions dans le domaine de la sécurité routière et pour le renforcement des capacités ;
·         Environnement : consiste à apporter un appui institutionnel à l'Administration de l'Environnement et à
limiter les effets négatifs sur l'environnement dans le cadre des réhabilitations et construction de routes;
·         Gestion du projet : consiste à gérer le projet conformément aux indicateurs de performance correspondants
( délais de règlement, de passations de marchés ) et à commettre des audits




                                                          - 39 -

3        le déroulement chronologique et les évènements majeurs
3.1      la mise en vigueur

    L'accord de crédit correspondant ( 3026-NIR ) pour un montant de 20 300 000 DTS) a été signé le 8 janvier
    1998 et son entrée en vigueur est intervenue le 12 mai 1998.


3.2      la revue à mi-parcours

    La revue à mi-parcours du projet a eu lieu du 5 au 14 juin 2001. Après avoir constaté que le projet a couvert un
    champ d'action très large, il a été recentré principalement sur les travaux. Les réflexions ont porté aussi sur la
    préparation d'un projet sectoriel des transports.

3.3      Le report de la date d'achèvement

Les difficultés rencontrées dans l'exécution de la dernière tranche des travaux routiers a conduit à proroger la date
de clôture du projet. Un délai de quatre mois a été accordé, reportant ainsi la date d'achèvement du 31 janvier 2003
au 30 mai 2003.

3.4      L'exécution financière du crédit

      Deux réallocation de fonds ont jalonné l'exécution du crédit. La première a été effectuée pour financer les
plans sociaux de la Direction du Matériel de Travaux Publics et de la Direction des travaux Publics en ponctionnant
sur la catégorie Travaux. La deuxième a été faite lors de la première mission de supervision après la revue à
mi-parcours pour tenir compte de l'orientation donnée au projet.

        CATEGORIES             ALLOCATION INITIALE       1ère REALLOCATION         2ème REALLOCATION
                                      Montant                  répartition                Montant
                                       en DTS                                     en DTSrépartitionMontant
                                                                                      en DTSrépartition
1.TRAVAUX                                    14 500 000          71,4                  12 190 00060,012 760
                                                                                                     00062,8

2. FOURNITURES                                  650 000           3,2                   650 0003,2400 0002,0

3. SERVICES CONSULTANTS                       2 700 000          13,3             2 700 00013,33 820 00018,8



4. FORMATION ET SEMINAIRE                       440 000           2,2                   440 0002,2470 0002,3

5.CHARGE DE FONCTIONNE-                          70 000           0,3                                 70 000
MENT ADDITIONNELLES                                                                         0,3
                                                                                                     240 000
                                                                                            1,2

6.REMBOURSEMENTDE                               440 000           2,2                                440 000
l'AVANCE POUR LA PREPA-                                                                     2,2
RATION DU PROJET                                                                                     300 000
                                                                                            1,5
7.NON AFFECTE                                 1 500 000           7,4                              1 500 000

8.PLAN SOCIAL                             -                                                     2 310 0007,4

                                                                                           11,40

                                                                                                  2 310 000-

                                                                                            11,4
GRAND TOTAL                                  20 300 000           100                   20 300 00010020 300
                                                                                                     000100




                                                        - 40 -

L'exécution financière du projet a nécessité aussi la révision du mode de participation de l'Etat aux financements
de la composante des travaux. La répartition initiale était de 10% pour le Gouvernement et 90% pour l'IDA par
rapport au montant toutes taxes comprises des travaux. L'Etat ne pouvant contribuer cash pour 10% et les travaux
risquant ainsi de connaître des retards,        l'IDA et le Gouvernement ont convenu d'exonérer les marchés
correspondants et de comptabiliser les taxes (TVA et enregistrement) comme sa participation.

4        l'exécution des composantes
4.1      les travaux routiers

4.1.1    la première phase des travaux

    Elle a concerné 545 km de routes en terre qui ont été entièrement rechargées. Un groupement d'entreprises
    nigériennes a pu figurer parmi les entreprises adjudicatrices qui étaient donc principalement étrangères.
    D'autres    entreprises nigériennes ont bénéficié comme sous traitantes de l'exécution de certains lots.
    L'exécution des travaux de la première tranche s'est faite sans dépassement de délai.

4.1.2    la deuxième phase des travaux

    Elle a été basée sur la réhabilitation et le traitement de points critiques. Certaines sections ont été entièrement
    rechargées. Elle a été scindée en deux tranches, pour tenir compte de la capacité des entreprises nationales. La
    première a porté sur un linéaire de 454 km et la deuxième sur 438 km. L'exécution de la première tranche s'est
    faite avec des dépassements de délais importants à cause du retard mis dans l'approbation des avenants.
    L'exécution de la deuxième tranche a connu plus de problèmes à cause du manque de matériel de travaux
    publics et trois des sept marchés de travaux ont dû être résiliés. Des travaux confortatifs ont pu être effectués
    sur les tronçons concernés pour en améliorer la praticabilité.

4.1.3 Travaux d'urgence

    En dehors de ces deux phases de travaux, le projet a financé les travaux d'urgence qu'ont nécessité les dégâts
    causés par la forte pluviométrie de la saison 2000. Ils ont consisté en des travaux mécanisés et travaux de point
    temps bitume et de protection des ouvrages, ainsi que la reprise du pont du PK27 sur la route Niamey-Torodi.

4.2      Le projet pilote de construction de routes rurales
    Sur 150 km prévus 117 km ont été réalisés. Les populations ont effectivement participé à toutes les phases, de
    l'identification à la construction . Elles ont réalisé leur part ayant consisté en des travaux de débroussaillage et
    de plantation d'arbres. Les travaux à l'entreprise ont été achevés à l'exception du tronçon Filingué-Chical pour
    lequel 11 km ont pu être réalisés sur les 17 km. Pour la phase entretien, les populations ont prévu des
    dispositions pour pouvoir l'assurer dans des conditions satisfaisantes.
    Du fait du retard enregistré dans la conduite du Projet Pilote,             le suivi-évaluation par un consultant
    indépendant, qui aurait permis de dégager une stratégie, n'a pas pu avoir lieu. L'IDA a estimé qu'il n'était
    objectivement pas possible de tirer des conclusions dans les délais du PRIT.

4.3      Les réformes institutionnelles

4.3.1    La gestion et l'administration de l'entretien routier

    Les réformes du secteur routier ont comme axe principal la privatisation de l'exécution de l'entretien routier et
    l'amélioration de son exécution.




                                                          - 41 -

    4.3.1.1 la restructuration de la Direction des Travaux Publics (DTP)

    Auparavant la Direction des Travaux Publics remplissait 3 fonctions incompatibles : elle concevait, exécutait et
    contrôlait les travaux d'entretien routier si bien que l'efficacité et l'économie n'étaient pas garanties dans une
    situation de crise financière aiguë. Il fallait donc supprimer les brigades d'entretien routier (licenciement du
    personnel correspondant) et confier les travaux aux entreprises. Il fallait aussi confier la surveillance de ces
    travaux aux bureaux de contrôle afin que l'administration des travaux publics se concentre à sa fonction de
    gestion et de programmation. Cependant, à cause du caractère spécifique de l'entretien courant,
    l'Administration des Travaux Publics en assure toujours le contrôle et la surveillance des travaux.
    Cette réforme a été conduite et achevée en 2000.

    4.3.1.2 la privatisation de la Direction du Matériel des Travaux Publics (DMTP)

    La restructuration de la DTP a mis fin à la régie. En conséquence, l'Etat devait se désengager de la location de
    matériel de travaux publics. L'opération s'est déroulée en 3 phases : le licenciement du personnel qui a
    nécessité l'établissement d'un plan social, le parcage du matériel et la transformation de la DMTP en Société
    de Location de Matériel de Travaux Publics (SLMTP), et enfin la privatisation de la SLMTP. Le processus a
    pris beaucoup de retard. Il n'a été dénoué que le 31 décembre 2002 avec la remise officielle de la SLMTP au
    repreneur stratégique.


    4.3.1.3   la restructuration de la Direction du Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics et du Bâtiment
    (DLNT/B)

    Cette réforme a aussi pris beaucoup de retard. Elle est nécessaire afin de donner au LNTP/B les moyens d'offrir
    un service de qualité à ses clients. Elle a été conduite à terme avec la création de la SEM Laboratoire national
    des Travaux Publics, l'acquisition d'un matériel technique plus performant, la mise en place d'un système de
    gestion informatisé et la réhabilitation des locaux. Les membres du Conseil d'Administration ont été nommés
    et un compte bancaire a été ouvert conformément à l'autonomie de gestion. Au stade actuel, le Laboratoire
    s'acquitte convenablement des prestations demandées par ses clients, et est en mesure de les améliorer avec le
    nouveau matériel acquis.


    4.3.1.4 la création de la Caisse Autonome pour le Financement de l'Entretien Routier (CAFER)

    Elle est venue couronner les réformes institutionnelles dans le secteur de l'entretien routier. Pour que cette
    réforme ait un sens, il a fallu d'abord supprimer la régie et confier, les travaux d'entretien aux entreprises
    auxquelles il faut garantir les règlements dans des délais acceptables. Elle a nécessité beaucoup de sacrifices
    (licenciement de plus de 2000 agents de la DTP et de la DMTP) qui ont été consentis malgré tout.
    C'est ainsi que la CAFER a pu être créée en 1999 et installée effectivement en février 2001 avec le lancement

    des premiers appels d'offres.
     Malgré la suppression de la régie, l'autonomie de la CAFER n'est pas effective. Les recettes continuent de
    transiter par le circuit du Trésor National. Ainsi, pour l'exercice 2002, seul un montant correspondant à 50%
    du budget a été versé par le Ministère des Finances dont plus de 34% allouée à la voirie urbaine.

4.3.2    le transport routier

        Les réformes institutionnelles du secteur des transports routiers ont concerné surtout la suppression des
mono-poles et la révision du cadre institutionnel, avec comme conséquence la restructuration des entreprises
concernées.

   4.3.2.1 la restructuration du Conseil Nigérien des Utilisateurs de Transport (CNUT)

    Dans le cadre de la restructuration du CNUT, la clé de répartition des cargaisons selon la règle des 40/40/20 a
    été abandonnée. Les chargeurs ont obtenu ainsi la liberté de choisir leur transporteur maritime. L'Observatoire



                                                        - 42 -

 National des Transports a été créé et logé au sein du CNUT, afin d'aider à maîtriser les statistiques et les coûts
 de transport.

 Le CNUT intervient aussi dans la facilitation de l'acheminement des marchandises nigériennes. Une
 représentation majoritaire des privés en son sein lui permettrait de disposer de moyens pour accomplir cette
 tâche et même de permettre la diversification de ses activités. Dans cette optique la révision des statuts du
 CNUT a été décidée.

4.3.2.2 la restructuration de la Société Nationale des Transports Nigériens (SNTN)

 La restructuration de la Société Nationale des Transports Nigériens a résulté de la suppression de son
 monopole sur le frêt minier et le transport des hydrocarbures, dans le but de réduire les coûts de transports de
 ces produits stratégiques. Il fallait alors recentrer ses activités sur le transport marchandises et la séparer des
 activités de transport voyageurs jugées moins rentables. La Société Nigérienne de Transport Voyageurs
 (SNTV) et la Société de Transport Urbain de Niamey (SOTRUNI) ont été ainsi créées et sont devenues
 opérationnelles.

 Cette restructuration a été jugée insuffisante par le Conseil d'Administration qui a décidé de la privatiser. La
 loi inscrivant la SNTN sur la liste des sociétés à privatiser a été votée par l'Assemblée Nationale.

4.3.2.3 la restructuration de l'OCBN

 La restructuration de l'OCBN constitue l'une des principales réformes dans le domaine des activités de
 transport, tout en étant aussi la plus complexe de par son caractère bi-étatique. Malgré ces contraintes, cette
 restructuration est à présent à un stade irréversible. Elle a été acceptée par tous les partenaires (Etats et
 Syndicats)
 Elle a été précédée par l'élaboration et l'application d'un plan de rigueur pour assainir la gestion de
 l'entreprise.
 Le processus de cette restructuration, qui consiste en la mise en concession de l'OCBN, vient d'être lancé et
 arrivera à terme dans un délai de 18 mois. La mise en concession de l'OCBN devrait avoir un impact positif
 sur les coûts et les délais de transport à destination du Niger, tout en soulageant les finances publiques des 2
 Etats.

4.3.2.4 la réforme du cadre institutionnel

 Une étude sur le cadre institutionnel a conduit à la proposition d'un projet de loi pour sa réforme. Le nouveau
 cadre permettra une exploitation plus efficace des différents modes de transport et d`aplanir la discordance ou
 le vide juridique des textes actuels.

4.3.2.5 le tour de rôle

 Si les résultats sont plutôt encourageants dans le transport voyageurs, ils sont plus mitigés pour le transport de
 marchandises. Même si le tour de rôle demeure le système en cours dans les gares, des autorisations peuvent
 être délivrées à tout opérateur privé pour faire des services réguliers de transport voyageurs à partir des ses
 propres installations.
 Certes le transport intérieur de marchandises n'est plus soumis au tour de rôle, mais les pesanteurs persistent
 au niveau du transport international. Ainsi, l'OCBN a tenté de libéraliser l'affrètement des camions à Parakou
 mais n'a pas pu faire aboutir cette mesure. La situation est toujours le statu quo sur les autres corridors
 desservant le Niger.




                                                      - 43 -

    4.3.2.6 la sécurité routière

    Un plan d'actions pour la sécurité routière a été élaboré et a connu un début d'application avec l'installation de
    la base des données sur les accidents. Ce plan d'actions pourrait être efficacement utiliser pour une
    amélioration effective de la sécurité routière au Niger.

    4.3.2.7 la convention Sida-Transport

    Un programme d'intervention dans le cadre de la prévention du VHI Sida a été exécuté. Non prévu au départ,
    ce programme a été introduit à la revue à mi-parcours pour tenir compte que les activités du secteur des
    transports contribuent à la propagation du Sida. L'intervention du projet a concerné notamment
    l'aménagement de kiosques pour la sensibilisation dans les autogares de 5 localités ainsi que la formation de
    leurs gestionnaires et de leurs animateurs. Des manifestations ont été aussi organisées. Ce programme a été
    très important, parce que servant de trait d'union avec le MAP (Multi-country Aids Program) dans le secteur
    des transports.

   4.3.2.8 les appuis institutionnels

    Ils ont concerné notamment l'informatisation des documents de transports dans le cadre de la maîtrise du parc,
    la formation des opérateurs du secteur et des agents de l'Administration.

4.4    l'environnement

     Le but de cette composante est de vulgariser la prise en compte des impacts environnementaux dans les travaux
routiers. Plusieurs sessions de formation et campagnes de sensibilisations ont été organisées. Des moyens matériels
ont été mis à la disposition des structures en charge de cette composante. Une division environnementale a été créée
au sein de la Direction Générale des Travaux Publics. La prise en compte des mesures de mitigation (limitation des
impacts environnementaux négatifs) est devenue effective dans les travaux routiers.

4.5       la gestion du projet par le Gouvernement

4.5.1     la Coordination du projet

  Le Bureau National de Coordination a été créé en 1992. La coordination de la préparation du PRIT ainsi que
  celle son exécution ont été assurées par le Comité de Pilotage qui regroupe les représentants de toutes les agences
  d'exécution. Le projet a d'abord été placé sous la tutelle du Ministère du Plan avant d'être rattachée au Cabinet
  du Premier Ministre. Cette dernière tutelle a été pour beaucoup dans l'aboutissement de certaines réformes.

4.5.2     l'exécution du Projet

   Les actions ont été mises en oeuvre par les agences d'exécution, depuis la procédure de passation de marché
  jusqu'à la réception des biens ou services. Les capacités de l'Administration sont ainsi directement mises à
  contribution à toutes les étapes de la mise en oeuvre. Elles ont été renforcées par des actions de formation, qui
  dans le domaine routier, n'a pas pu s'étendre aux opérateurs privés afin qu'ils améliorent leurs prestations.     Il
  faut noter que des retards, parfois importants, dans la mise en oeuvre des actions, la passation des marchés ou les
  circuits de mise en règlement des prestations, ont été enregistrés à cause de la lenteur administrative ou la
  méconnaissance des procédures de l'IDA.

4.5.3     les indicateurs de performance

  Quoique tardivement, leur gestion a été informatisée et pourra être capitalisée aux fins d'utilisation dans d'autres
  projets. Tous les indicateurs de performance ont été pris en compte dans ce système et de nouveaux indicateurs
  ont été aussi introduits dans cette optique. Seuls les indicateurs relatifs aux réformes institutionnelles ont été



                                                         - 44 -

  régulièrement suivis tout au long du projet. Le retard pris dans la mise en place du système informatisé pour le
  calcul des indicateurs est la raison pour laquelle le suivi n'a pas été global. Leur connaissance aurait poussé à
  améliorer par exemple les performances en matière de passation de marché.

5        la gestion du projet par l'IDA

5.1      le suivi par les chargés de projet

    Le projet a connu 3 chargés de projets. C'est dire la fréquence des changements et leurs incidences sur le cours
    du projet. La stabilité observée après la revue à mi-parcours a eu un impact très positif associé au fait que le
    chargé de projet a beaucoup oeuvré pour son achèvement dans de bonnes conditions.

5.2      Les avis de non-objection

    Jusqu'à la revue à mi-parcours, le projet a beaucoup souffert de la lenteur avec laquelle les avis de
    non-objection sont donnés. La situation s'est nettement améliorée après le changement du chargé de projet, ce
    qui a permis de combler le retard enregistré sur la période précédente.

5.3      les décaissements directs

    Les délais pour les décaissements directs atteignent un mois, voire même plus à l'approche de la date initiale
    de clôture du Crédit. Ces délais, ajoutés à celui de la mise dans le circuit de règlement, conduisent à dépasser
    les délais contractuels des marchés soumis aux procédures de la Banque. Les différents échanges avec l'IDA
    ont permis de les comprimer.

5.4      le compte spécial

    Le niveau du compte spécial a été revu à la hausse au cours du projet conformément à l'Accord de Crédit.
    Compte tenu des retards enregistrés dans les travaux et de leur exécution simultanée, le niveau du compte
    spécial n'était plus adéquat. La bonne collaboration avec le Service Décaissement suivi de l'appui du Chargé
    de projet a permis de résoudre ce problème en acceptant de baisser le seuil des paiements directs au cas par
    cas. La prolongation du Crédit a permis de renflouer le compte spécial.


6        les recommandations
6.1      les travaux routiers

    La substitution en cours de projet de l'entretien courant au profit de l'entretien périodique (sous la
    dénomination réhabilitation et traitement de points critiques) a fortement ralenti le déroulement des actions, et
    réduit la qualité des travaux par rapport à l'indicateur de performance correspondant. A l'avenir, il serait
    souhaitable d'exécuter les travaux d'entretien courant sur les fonds de la CAFER, et d'orienter les fonds
    extérieurs vers l'entretien périodique.
     Pour leur exécution, la formation de tous les acteurs du secteur est nécessaire afin d'améliorer l'efficacité du
système.

6.2      Le Projet Pilote Routes Rurales

    A la clôture du PRIT, la stratégie de construction de routes rurales en cours d'essai n'a pas été validée. Cette
    validation est pourtant nécessaire. Les projets à venir devraient prendre en compte la phase de validation de la
    stratégie, tout en consolidant l'expérience acquise dans le domaine de la participation des populations. Un
    minimum de linéaire de routes rurales devrait être prévu à cet effet.

6.3      Le transport routier

     Beaucoup d'études ont été menées dans le secteur du transport routier. Il faut donc les exploiter dans les



                                                        - 45 -

   projets ultérieurs. Il en est ainsi de l'étude sur le port sec (pour l'amélioration de la chaîne logistique), de
   l'étude sur le financement des véhicules de transport ( pour le renouvellement du parc qui est indispensable ),
   de l'étude transport et pauvreté (dans le cadre de l'éradication de la pauvreté). Par ailleurs, pour lutter contre
   le développement de l'informel, il est nécessaire d'accorder une grande importance à la formation de tous les
   opérateurs du secteur. Une étude a été menée à cet effet dans le cadre du PRIT. Un effort particulier doit aussi
   être fait pour amener les opérateurs à abandonner le tour de rôle, garantie indispensable à donner pour pouvoir
   renouveler le parc dont la vétusté a une incidence négative sur les coûts et les délais de transport.

6.4     les indicateurs de performance

   La gestion de tous les indicateurs de performance devrait se faire tout au long des projets à venir afin qu'ils
   puis-effectivement servir d'informations alimentant leur tableau de bord.
   Dans le cas d'un changement de nature des actions à mener (comme le changement des rechargements en
   travaux d'entretien courant), il est nécessaire d'en tenir compte au niveau des indicateurs de performance pour
   ne pas pénaliser le projet lors de son évaluation.

6.5     La gestion financière

   Il est recommandé que le niveau du compte spécial soit adapté à l'ampleur des travaux dans l'exécution des
   projets ultérieurs
   Les délais des décaissements directs, qui ont été en moyenne d'un mois au niveau du Service Décaissement,
   doivent être améliorés afin de respecter les délais de règlement maximums des marchés de la Banque. Des
   efforts doivent être aussi faits du côté de l'Administration dans le cadre de l'atteinte de cet objectif.

6.6     Le Programme Sectoriel des Transports

   Les actions menées dans le cadre du Projet de Réhabilitation des Infrastructures de Transport doivent être
   poursuivies et consolidées à travers l'élaboration et la mise en oeuvre d'un Programme Sectoriel des
   Transports.
   Le processus a déjà été engagé avec l'étude sur la stratégie nationale des transports qui est en cours, et doit être
   conduit jusqu'à la mise en place du programme.




                                                          - 46 -

- 47 -

