Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3026-NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 8, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3026-NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 8, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated November 
24, 1997, and a second letter dated September 3, 1997, describing a program of 
actions, objectives and policies designed to strengthen its transport sector, and to 
mitigate potential hazards to the environment arising out of the implementation of 
road works, respectively (both hereafter referred to as “the Program”), and declaring 
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
(C)
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories, or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
Page  2
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BNC" means Bureau National de Coordination, a unit in the office of the 
Prime Minister of the Borrower, established by Arrêté 007/PM of the Borrower, dated 
May 24, 1993, as amended by Arrêté 57/PM of the Borrower, dated August. 5, 1997, 
responsible for coordinating Project activities; 
(b)
"CNEDD" means Conseil national de l’ environnement pour un devéloppement 
durable, the Borrower’s national environmental development council;  
(c)
"CP" means Comité de pilotage des projets de réhabilitation des 
infrastructures, the unit established and operating pursuant to Arrêté  56/PM of the 
Borrower, dated August. 5, 1997, to be responsible for technical and financial 
coordination of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Urban Infrastructure 
Rehabilitation Project) dated June 20, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association 
(Cr.2957-NIR); 
(d)
"DE" means Direction de l’environnement, the environment department in 
MHE (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
"DEIE" means Division d’étude d’impact sur l’environnement, the 
environmental affairs department in DTP (as hereinafter defined); 
(f)
"DLNTB/B" means Direction du laboratoire national des travaux publics et 
du bâtiment, the Borrower’s laboratory for road and building engineering tests, a 
department of MEI (as hereinafter defined); 
(g)
"DMTP" means Direction du matériel des travaux publics, the equipment 
pool in MEI (as hereinafter defined); 
(h)
"DTP" means Direction des travaux publics, the public works department in 
MEI (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  3
(i)
"DTTMF" means Direction des transports terrestres, maritimes et fluviaux, 
the transport department in MT (as hereinafter defined); 
(j)
"Environmental Law" means Ordonnance 97/001, dated January 10, 1997, of 
the laws of the Borrower, introducing environmental impact studies for economic 
development projects, 
(k)
"CFAF" or "CFA Franc" means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, 
the currency of the Borrower; 
(l)
"MEI" means Ministère de l’équipement et des infrastructures, the 
Borrower‘s Ministry of Equipment and Infrastructure;
(m)
"MHE" means Ministère de l’hydraulique et de l’environnement, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Hydraulics and Environment; 
(n)
"MT" means Ministère des transports, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Transport; 
(o)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)
"Project Implementation Plan” means the project implementation plan 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Manuel d’exécution du 
projet adopted by the Borrower in November 1997, setting forth, inter alia, Project 
supervision and performance criteria, environmental guidelines plan, an implementation 
time-table, and other relevant procedures for carrying out the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Borrower and the 
Association, and such term includes any schedules and attachments supplemental to the 
Project Implementation Plan; 
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter agreement dated 
February 14, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association;
(r)
"RF" or "Road Fund" means the road fund referred to in paragraph 5 (c) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(s)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR20,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
Page  4
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled, and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request, (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower, and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August  1, commencing February 1, 2008 and ending August 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2017, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three 
consecutive years the level established annually by 
the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources, and 
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association 
and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling 
six months or more after the date on 
which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, 
provided, however, that there shall be a grace 
period of a minimum of five years on such repayment 
of principal.
Page  5
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
open a project account in CFA Franc in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association, and thereafter maintain said project account under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of FCFA 
20,000,000, and (ii) thereafter, replenish the Project Account by the amount required 
to finance the Borrower’s contribution for any contract for works under Part A of the 
Project, as approved in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement, and such other amounts as may be required to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution for expenditures under the Project (excluding Part A thereof);
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution for expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Page  6
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account 
semiannually audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
audit period, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
semiannual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedy of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
Page  7
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the accountant referred to in paragraph 5 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement  has been appointed, and the accounting system for the Project referred to 
in paragraph 5 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been established; and
(b)
the Project Account has been opened and the initial amount referred to in 
Section 3.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement has been deposited into said Account.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for planning 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Planning
Ministry of Planning
BP 862
NIAMEY /Niger
Cable address: 
Telex:
5463 NI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, DC
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By /s/ Joseph Diatta 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower, 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, building, office, vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, 
Project related travel and supervision, and salaries for local contractual staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect to expenditures under Category (1) of the table under 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1, unless: (i) an environmental assessment for each work 
to be executed under Part A of the Project has been undertaken in accordance with the 
environmental guidelines included in the Project Implementation Plan and a mitigation 
plan satisfactory to the Association has been prepared for each such work, and (ii) 
such work has been approved by the Association in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works under contracts not 
exceeding $250,000 equivalent, goods under contracts not exceeding $70,000 equivalent, 
and services of (A) consulting firms for contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, 
and (B) individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the condition of the road network 
in the Borrower’s territory and the efficiency of road maintenance execution by the 
Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
Road Construction, Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.
Carrying out of works, and provision of advisory services for:
(a)
regravelling of approximately 1,060 km of earth roads in the territory of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
a pilot program of construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of 
approximately 150 km of rural roads in the territory of the Borrower.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) environmental assessments, environmental mitigation plans, 
and engineering studies for rural and earth roads; and (b) supervision of works under 
paragraph 1 of this Part A.
3.
Development of a strategy for the construction and sustainable maintenance of 
rural roads, including participation of rural communities and users of rural roads, in 
environmental assessments, construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of said roads 
and the carrying out of the pilot program referred to in paragraph 1 (b) above. 
Part B:
Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening the operational capacity of: (a) DTP in road maintenance 
management, and (b) DEIE and DTP in the carrying out of road related environmental 
assessments, through the carrying out of training programs for selected staff in DEIE 
and DTP, the provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of equipment.
2.
Restructuring of DLNTB/B, DMTP and reorganizing DTP to divest the public sector 
from road maintenance, and promotion of small and medium size private enterprises in 
the carrying out of public works, through the provision of technical advisory services 
and the acquisition of equipment.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment and 
administration of RF.
4.
Strengthening of the accounting and auditing capacities of: (a) DLNTP/B and DTP, 
and (b) RF administration, through the provision of technical advisory services and 
the carrying out of training programs for selected staff of DLNTP/B, DTP and in RF 
administration.
5.
Strengthening the capacity of CNEDD and DE in: (a) the carrying out of 
environmental planning and assessment, and (b) in drafting the regulations to 
implement the Environment Law, through the provision of technical advisory services, 
the carrying out of training programs for selected staff in CNEDD and DE, and the 
acquisition of equipment.
6.
Strengthening the capacity of MT in improving: (a) road safety, (b) the 
information system on the transport sector, and (c) transport logistics; through the 
provision of technical advisory services, the carrying out of training programs for 
selected staff in MT and the acquisition of equipment.
Part C:
Project Management
1.
Strengthening the project management capacity of BNC through the establishment 
of a computerized management information system, the provision of technical advisory 
services, the carrying out of training programs for selected staff in BNC, and the 
acquisition of equipment.
2.
Carrying out of financial audits of the Project Account and the Special Account  
through the provision of technical advisory services.
*       *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Page  10
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
3.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Software and electronic equipment to be used to monitor road conditions up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $151,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $70,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $325,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$70,000 or more, and (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  11
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of Consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in Section V of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. However, the exception to prior review by the Association will not apply to the 
terms of reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to 
assignments of a critical nature as determined by the Association or to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value above the prior review threshold.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
Page  12
(a)
carry out Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project through MEI, Part 
B.5 of the Project through MHE and CNEDD, and Part B.6 of the Project through MT; 
(b)
coordinate the carrying out of the Project through CP and BNC; and
(c)
ensure the carrying out of the Project pursuant to the Project 
Implementation Plan, and shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Plan without the prior approval of the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, quarterly reports, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph 2, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said reports and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, one month after having furnished to the 
Association the report referred to under subparagraph (b) of this paragraph (2), or 
such later date as the Association shall request, said report and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Association's views on the matter.
3.
(a)
By November 30 of each calendar year, commencing on November 30, 1998, 
the Borrower and the Association shall carry out a joint review of the Project 
covering progress achieved in the execution of the Project.
(b)
No later than one month prior to each such review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed work program and a 
proposed financing plan and budgetary allocation for works to be carried out under 
Part A of the Project, and (ii) for its review and comments: (A) a proposed work 
program and a proposed financing plan and budgetary allocation for the construction, 
rehabilitation and  maintenance of its road network during the following year, (B) a 
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress 
achieved in the execution of the Project, and (C) a technical audit report, carried 
out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, of works carried out 
under Part A of the Project during the previous two semesters. 
4.
(a)
Not later than 30 months after the Effective Date, or such other date as 
the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association 
shall carry out a Mid-Term Review (hereinafter referred to as the Mid-Term Review). 
The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part to ensure the participation 
of private transport sector representatives in such Mid-Term Review.  Such Mid-Term 
Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of the Project and in the 
implementation of the Program.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association: (i) for its review and comments, a report, in such detail 
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project and the 
implementation of the Program, including an evaluation, carried out under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, of the execution of the pilot program 
carried out under Part A.1. (b) of the Project, and (ii) for its approval, a proposed 
work program to be carried out until the completion of the Project.
(c)
Following such Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the execution of the Project or the implementation of the 
Program, as the case may be, or to implement such other measures as may have been 
Page  13
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives 
of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
(i) recruit an accountant, to be responsible for the maintaining of 
records and accounts to reflect resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, (ii) 
establish, or cause to be established, a computerized accounting system for the 
Project, acceptable to the Association, and (iii) maintain said accounting system 
until the completion of the Project.
(b)
maintain until the completion of the Project: (i) in BNC suitably 
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers to ensure the accomplishment of 
the objectives of the Project, (ii) the CP, and (iii) in DEIE suitably qualified and 
experienced staff in adequate numbers, or train staff to enable it to perform 
efficiently within reasonable time, as the case may be, to ensure the accomplishment 
of the objectives of the Project;
(c)
establish, not later than January 1, 1999, a Road Fund in accordance with 
the laws of the Borrower to be operated in accordance with a manual of procedures 
satisfactory to the Association and have the RF and the road maintenance program 
financed under the RF audited semiannually by independent auditors with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association.
6.
Prior to carrying out Part A 1. (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) 
develop, or cause to be developed the strategy referred to in Part A 3. of the 
Project, by not later than November 30, 1998, or such other date as the Borrower and 
the Association shall agree upon, (ii) furnish such strategy to the Association for 
its review and comments, and (iii) implement Part A 1.(b) of the Project taking into 
account such strategy and the views of the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFAF400,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount of CFAF200,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR eight million 
(SDR8,000,000).
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence acceptable to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
Page  14
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  15
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
