Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
PHRD Grant Number 29145
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated August 30, 1995
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30,1995, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) 
acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990, between Japan and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, Japan 
has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to 
Page  2
administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and 
projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the 
provisions of such letter agreement; and
(B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said grant funds 
(the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), and (13), 2.02 
and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International Development 
Association acting as Administrator of the Grant pursuant to the letter 
agreement between Japan and the Bank and the Association referred to 
in Recital (A) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
"Association" shall also include the International Development 
Association acting in its own capacity;
Page  3
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited;
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(vii)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in yen; provided, 
however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant have been paid or are payable in another currency, the 
Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase such 
currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal.".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms "yen" and "¥" mean the currency of 
Japan.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount of seventy four 
million two hundred thousand yen (¥74,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and health sector 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has received the 
Page  5
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the Recipient 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and furnish 
to the Administrator not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully 
disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Page  6
Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
TREASURY
 41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
 197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
 248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Kevin M. Cleaver
 Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the Grant, the 
allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Yen)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
50,550,000
100%
services
(2)
Studies and
21,000,000
100%
workshops
(3)
Operating 2,120,000
100%
costs
(4)
Unallocated
530,000
100%
TOTAL
74,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
The term “operating costs” means expenditures for the following items: office 
expenses, including supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for services under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
The objectives of the Technical Assistance are to assist the Recipient’s activities in 
preparing a health sector reform Project, in the areas of health insurance and public health and 
Page  8
AIDS interventions.
Part A:
Health Insurance
1.
(a)
Carrying out an analysis of the potential alternatives for health insurance, 
including financing, administration and payment systems, and providing options for 
consideration.
(b)
Carrying out a preliminary study of the legal and regulatory framework for 
private insurance with a view to advising on changes required to promote private health 
insurance schemes within Tanzania.
2.
Carrying out an economic analysis on the potential market for public and private health 
insurance schemes in Tanzania.
Part B:
Public Health
1.
Development of cost-effective, appropriate and accurate information systems and 
planning processes for public health.
2.
Carrying out an evaluation of the status of program implementation in the programs to be 
supported by the proposed Project, including AIDS, malaria, prenatal and mother and child 
health programs with a view to identifying efficiency gains in their implementation.
3.
Carrying out an analysis of health services management, to support effective public 
health programs within the framework of the health sector reform program, including the 
identification of alternative mechanisms for service delivery management and resource 
mobilization.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
The Technical Assistance shall be carried out by the Ministry of Health under the overall 
supervision of the Principal Secretary.
2.
The Recipient shall establish a Technical Project Steering Committee chaired by the 
Chief Medical Officer in the Ministry of Health. Said committee will include representatives 
from the following organizations: the Ministry of Health (Departments of Preventive Services, 
Hospital Services, Health Planning, Training, Primary Health Care Secretariat, and several 
District Medical Officers); the Prime Minister’s Office (Department of Regional Authorities and 
Local Government); the Planning Commission; the Civil Service Department; the Ministry of 
Labor and Youth; the Christian Medical Board of Tanzania; private sector representatives; and 
NGOs. The Principal Secretary may co-opt other members as required.
The Technical Project Steering Committee shall:
(a)
provide technical guidance to those responsible for implementing the 
preparation activities under the Technical Assistance;
Page  9
(b)
review proposals for studies and other project preparation activities; and
(c)
review results of analyses and recommendations for the Health Sector 
Reform Project.
3.
The Recipient shall establish a Project Coordination Committee which will be chaired by 
the Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Health. It will include representatives from the 
following organizations: the Ministry of Health; the Ministry of Education and Culture; the 
Prime Minister’s Office; the Ministry of Finance; the Planning Commission; the Ministry of 
Water, Energy and Minerals; and NGOs.
The Project Coordination Committee shall:
(a)
review recommendations for the Health Sector Reform Project made by 
the Technical Project Steering Committee;
(b)
ensure cross-sectoral coordination and resolve high level policy 
problems beyond the authority of the Technical Project Steering Committee; 
and
(c)
review and approve quarterly status reports on the Technical Assistance.
SCHEDULE 4
Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Technical Assistance, the Recipient 
shall employ consultants and specialists, whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex time-based assignments, the Recipient shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Administrator, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Administrator, the Recipient 
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Administrator. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Page  10
Administrator; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above;  or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the amount of the Grant 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
Page  11
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the Administrator such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Administrator shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within the 
period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
Page  12
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
