Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBERS: 7099-DOM, 7100-GRD, 7101-SC, 7102-SLU, 7103-SV
CREDIT NUMBERS: 3610-DOM, 3611-GRD, 3612-SLU, 3613-SV
Regional Project Agreement
(Emergency Recovery Project)
between the
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and the
ORGANIZATION OF EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
Dated April 19, 2002
LOAN NUMBERS: 7099-DOM, 7100-GRD, 7101-SC, 7102-SLU, 7103-SV
CREDIT NUMBERS: 3610-DOM, 3611-GRD, 3612-SLU, 3613-SV
REGIONAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 19, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the 
ORGANIZATION OF 
Page  2
EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
 (the Regional Secretariat).
WHEREAS (A) by individual and separate loan agreements of even date herewith (the 
Loan Agreements) between the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, the Federation of St. 
Christopher and Nevis, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines, respectively (the Regional 
States) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to each of the Regional States 
various amounts on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective Loan Agreements but 
only on condition that the Regional Secretariat agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement through the Directorate of Civil Aviation of the Regional 
Secretariat (the Regional Directorate);
(B) 
by individual and separate development credit agreements of even date herewith 
(the Development Credit Agreements) between each of the Regional States with the exception of 
the Federation of St. Christopher and Nevis, and the International Development Association (the 
Association), the Association has agreed to make available to each of the Regional States with 
the exception of St Christopher and Nevis various amounts on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the respective Development Credit Agreements but only on condition that the Regional 
Secretariat agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement through the Regional Directorate;
(C)
by an agreement (the Regional Subsidiary Agreement) of even date herewith 
between the Regional States and the Regional Secretariat, part of the proceeds of the Loans 
provided for under the Loan Agreements and of the Credits provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreements will be made available to the Regional Directorate on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Regional Subsidiary Agreement in order for the Regional Directorate 
to carry out Part C of each of the Projects (such parts hereinafter collectively referred to as the 
Regional Project); and
WHEREAS the Regional Secretariat, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreements and the Development Credit Agreements with the Regional States has agreed 
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement through the Regional Directorate;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreements, the Development Credit Agreements, the Regional Subsidiary Agreement, the 
Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
Execution
Section 2.01. The Regional Secretariat declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Projects as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreements, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Regional Project through the Regional Directorate with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environment, aviation, 
airport, maritime, seaport, and security practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Regional 
Project.
Section 2.02.  The Regional Directorate shall carry out the Regional Project under the 
supervision of the Regional States and in coordination with the PCU of each of the Regional 
States.
Section 2.03. The Regional Directorate shall, not later than three months after the 
Effective Date, prepare on behalf of the Regional States and furnish to each Regional State for 
onward transmission to the Bank an annual plan, satisfactory to the Regional States and the 
Bank, describing the activities to be carried out during the first twelve months of implementation 
of the Regional Project and the relevant budgetary allocations.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the Regional Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loans 
and the Credits shall be governed by the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreements.
Section 2.05. The Regional Directorate shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Regional Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Regional 
Directorate shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Regional Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) The Regional Directorate shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Regional Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Regional Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loans and the Credits.
(b)
The Regional Directorate shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Projects, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loans or the Credits, or the performance by the Regional Directorate of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Regional Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) The Regional Directorate shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07, of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, respectively) in respect of the Regional 
Project Agreement and the Regional Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
Page  4
limitation thereto, the Regional Directorate shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
each Regional State for onward transmittal to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Bank and the Regional Directorate, (A) a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the initial progress of the Regional Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived or to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Regional Directorate, the Regional States and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Regional Subsidiary Agreement, the 
Loan Agreements and the Development Credit Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loans and the Credits; and (B) a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Regional Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Regional Directorate on said report and plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Regional Directorate
Section 3.01. The Regional Directorate shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Regional Directorate shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Regional Directorate shall maintain a financial management system 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Regional 
Project.
(b)   The Regional Directorate shall submit the documentation referred to in the 
preceding paragraph to the PCU of each Regional State on a monthly basis and otherwise 
cooperate fully with each Regional State so as to allow each Regional State to comply with such 
Regional State’s obligations under Article IV of the relevant Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Page  5
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which all 
the Loan Agreements shall have become effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the Regional 
Secretariat, including the Regional Directorate thereunder shall terminate on the date on which 
all Loan Agreements shall have terminated in accordance with their terms, and the Bank shall 
promptly notify the Regional Directorate thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated 
by notice to the party giving such not The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For the Regional Secretariat:
Directorate of Civil Aviation of the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States
P. O. Box 1130
St. John’s, Antigua
Page  6
Facsimile: (268) 462-0082
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Regional Secretariat, or by the 
Regional Secretariat on behalf of the Regional States under the Loan Agreements or the 
Development Credit Agreements, may be taken or executed by the Director of the Regional 
Directorate or such other person or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and the 
Regional Directorate shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
ORGANIZATION OF THE EASTERN CARIBBEAN STATES
By /s/ Herald Wilson
Authorized Representative
