                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35428

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-36130 FSLT-71030)

                                                  ON A

                                             LOAN/CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.2 MILLION
                       (US$0.96 MILLION LOAN & SDR 1.9 MILLION CREDIT)

                                                    TO

                                ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES

                                                FOR AN

                                 EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                               June 9, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 15, 2006)

                             Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
                          (EC) Dollars 2.70 = US$ 1
                                     US$ 1 = Dollars (EC) 2.70

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 to December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CARICOM Caribbean Community
CCTV    Closed Circuit Television
CMU     Country Management Unit
DCA     Directorate of Civil Aviation
FMR     Financial Management Report
ERP     Emergency Recovery Project
EU      European Union
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO    International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA     International Development Association
IMO     International Maritime Organization
ISPS    International Ship and Port Security
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
TSA     Transportation Security Agency




                            Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                          Country Director    Caroline D. Anstey
                            Sector Manager    John Henry Stein
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Francis Ghesquiere

                         ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                                Emergency Recovery Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P076822                                                  Project Name: St Vincent Emergency Recovery Project
Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere                                      TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 9, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: St Vincent Emergency Recovery Project                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-36130; FSLT-71030
   Country/Department: ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES                                     Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Debt management and fiscal
                            substainability (P); Macroeconomic management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/27/2001                                     Effective: 07/10/2002                07/10/2002
     Appraisal: 01/17/2002                                         MTR: 02/25/2004                  02/25/2004
      Approval: 03/07/2002                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENAD/MINISTRY OF
                                           FINANCE AND PLANNING
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Maria Emilia Freire
Team Leader at ICR:             Francis Ghesquiere                             Arnaud Guinard
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Forni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

    The original objectives of the project were to: (i) help safeguard and maintain the productive
    capacity of St. Vincent and the Grenadines's tourism sector, notably by securing the industry's
    energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 events; (ii) enhance security at key
    airport and seaport facilities in line with international standards, with the aim of preventing
    further acts of terrorism and safeguarding the sub-region's image as a safe tourism destination;
    and (iii) strengthen the country's institutional capacity to develop and implement security
    plans, procedures and measures as mandated by the international civil aviation and maritime
    transport regulatory agencies.

    The St. Vincent and the Grenadines Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) is part of a five
    country emergency recovery program.          Other countries of the Organization of Eastern
    Caribbean States (OECS), including Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia and Grenada
    took part in the program.          Project documentation for the program comprises one
    Memorandum of the President and one Technical Annex (in accordance to BP/OP 8.50
    procedures) for the five participating countries.

    While the project was designed to take advantage of "economies of scale" from enhanced
    regional coordination, it was also formulated so as to build country implementation capacity.
    Thus, appreciating the requirement to address individual country needs, the Bank focused its
    lending efforts on selective interventions that also included strong regional synergies. A
    common framework for all OECS countries was developed for project preparation. In
    addition, training and technical assistance         were delivered through sub-region-wide
    arrangements. This structure helped promote greater sub-regional cooperation, while also
    making full use of country implementation capacity in each project coordination unit.

    The objectives of the project were clearly stated. They aimed to support the sub-region-wide
    recovery program to reestablish and secure the productive capacity of the OECS countries'
    tourism sector following 9/11. The objectives were responsive to the Borrower's concerns,
    based on limited previous knowledge of the ramifications of such a terrorist event. The project
    was designed to support the overall June 4, 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
    objectives to reduce poverty through human and institutional development. It supported the
    creation of conditions for more rapid recovery and medium-term growth potential in tourism
    by directly assisting in the mitigation of income vulnerability and insecurity. It also developed
    institutional capacity to ensure greater security in the island's critical air and sea transport
    linkages.

3.2 Revised Objective:

    The objectives were not revised.




                                                 - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

    The project consisted of the three components listed below:

    Critical Imports (US$1,200,000 or 35 percent of the total project costs) to finance solely
    low-sulfur diesel fuel for electricity generation, which is critical to the maintenance of
    economic activity in the tourism industry because it ensures that energy-intensive tourism
    facilities are kept operational during the recovery period.

    Airport and Seaport Security Enhancement (US$2,050,000 or 59 percent of total project
    costs): (a) civil works to upgrade perimeter fencing and roadway, and improve access to key
    facilities, (b) security equipment, including communication, passenger and luggage screening,
    identification (badge) and surveillance systems, and (c) institutional capacity-building,
    including technical assistance and training to develop and implement security programs,
    emergency and contingency plans at airports and seaports.

    Implementation Support       (US$230,000 or 6 percent of total project costs) to assist the
    borrower in meeting its project management obligations through the strengthening of an
    existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

    The original components were structured to meet the project objectives.             The largest
    allocation of funds was made for enhancing security at airports and seaports which was a key
    focus of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

    The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

    Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

    The St. Vincent and the Grenadines Emergency Recovery Project was prepared as one
    project, as part of a regional security-enhancement program incorporating five nations in the
    OECS. Each project shared the same objectives and structure. A QAG panel reviewed the
    quality at entry of the Dominica ERP (and in effect the five country program) on June 6, 2002
    and found it to be satisfactory.

    It was difficult to predict the unique affects of the 9/11 terrorist attack on the OECS region.
    In response to this potential variability, project objectives were broadly defined and
    components flexibly structured to adapt and evolve in response to country needs and changing
    security requirements.




                                                 - 3 -

    As very limited expertise on transportation security existed within the Bank, the project design
    relied heavily on a detailed assessment carried out by a renowned consulting firm specialized
    in air and maritime transport security issues. Key to project success was the establishment of
    a cohesive capacity building program at the sub-regional level. The OECS Directorate of
    Civil Aviation (DCA) was therefore involved early on in the project - recognizing that no
    similar institutional set up existed for the maritime transport sector.

    During project preparation, the option of hiring a procurement agent to handle procurement
    of security equipment on behalf of all islands was considered to facilitate standardization of
    specifications, packaging and procurement of equipment. In the end, the project relied on
    strengthening an existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage procurement, in line
    with the Borrower's desire to build on existing institutional capacity.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

    Overall, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

    The first objective, safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of the country's
    tourism sector, was fully met immediately after the loan and credit became effective through
    the disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy needs). This helped St. Vincent and
    the Grenadines meet its energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events in spite of
    tourism revenue losses.

    The second objective, enhancing security at key airport and seaport facilities in line with
    international standards, has been fully achieved with the bulk of civil works completed and
    equipment installed and in use. The E.T. Joshua airport certification process has been carried
    out by the DCA on behalf of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), and the
    International Ship and Port Security (ISPS) certification process for the main port of Kingston
    have been completed. All facilities currently meet all international security standards.

    The final objective, strengthening the country's institutional capacity was fully met with all
    training activities successfully completed, regulatory studies prepared for Government's
    approval and enactment of related legislation. In addition, an airport safety management
    study, which was not initially included under the project, has been prepared.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    Critical Imports (Appraisal US$ 1.20 million/Actual US$ 1.20 million)

    The critical imports component is rated highly satisfactory.

    The financing and disbursement of critical imports (fuel oil for energy needs) was made
    immediately after the loan and credit became effective. This helped St. Vincent and the
    Grenadines meet its energy needs in the aftermath of the September 11th events and dampen
    the subsequent loss of tourism revenues.


                                                  - 4 -

Security Enhancement at Ports and Airports (Appraisal US$ 2.06 million/Actual US$ 2.27
million)

The security enhancement component is rated satisfactory.

Physical Improvement:

The construction of the perimeter fencing and the roadway at E.T. Joshua airport has been
completed in compliance with ICAO standards. This includes additional repairs made on the
beach side of the fence after damage caused by Hurricane Ivan in September 2004. A new
checked baggage area has also been erected.

Security Equipment:

With the exception of the security sniffers, all security equipment originally included in the
project has been procured, installed, and is in use at both port and airport facilities. The
sniffers were canceled due to their high price and low level of reliability. With project savings,
an additional 12 handheld communication units were purchased toward the end of the project.
All security enhancement equipment purchased under the project can be found under the
Output Indicators of Annex 1.

The installation of Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) systems at the port and airport were
delayed during project implementation. Delays related to pending plans for new terminal
construction financed by a Kuwaiti Government Grant that has not yet materialized, and also,
due to difficulties in finalizing specifications resulting from insufficiently detailed designs. The
procurement of CCTV equipment was delayed and it cost significantly more than originally
planned. To allow the completion of this activity, the project was extended six months, to
December 31, 2005. In retrospect, the option of using a single design, supply and installation
contract for the CCTV could have resulted in more rapid implementation.

Institutional Capacity Building:

To ensure a coherent approach and consistency of programs, this component was
implemented by the DCA on behalf of all participating countries. All modules for executive
and operational training have been successfully completed. Train-the-trainer courses were
held in December 2003 in Antigua, with one candidate from St. Vincent and the Grenadines
having completed the course, and another having required additional training. An Aviation
Security Training was held in early April 2004 in St. Vincent. Of the 29 participants, 80
percent passed with distinction, 10 percent passed to completion and 10 percent did not
complete the course. At the same time, the participants also attended a Maritime Security
Program. Some 66 percent of the participants passed with distinction, 20 percent passed to
completion and 14 percent did not complete the course.




                                               - 5 -

   A comprehensive Regulatory Review for Enhanced Security covering both the civil aviation
   and maritime sectors in St. Vincent and the Grenadines has been completed. This has helped
   the authorities take a full account of the ICAO and International Maritime Organization
   (IMO) requirements and identify potential deficiencies and areas for improvement. A draft
   National Transportation Security Plan has also been developed for St. Vincent and the
   Grenadines, as well as a Port Security Plan. Both plans have been reviewed by the respective
   competent authorities and are awaiting legislative approval.

   Following the Bank's mid-term in-depth technical review, the Government agreed to use part
   of the project savings to finance an airport management study. The authorities are currently
   reviewing the conclusions and recommendations of this additional study.

   Project Management (Appraisal US$ 0.23 million/Actual US$ 0.09 million)

    The project management component is rated satisfactory.

    The Project Coordination Unit was staffed with a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Officer,
    a Project Accountant, and an Administrative Assistant. As the PCU also handled two other
    Bank-financed projects, some office equipment and furniture was provided to facilitate its
    operations. The project also financed the services of an independent auditing firm.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate economic rates of return for this type of project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

    It was not possible to calculate financial rates of return for this type of project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

    Tourist arrivals, in particular cruises, have gradually picked up in St. Vincent since 2002.
    Greater stability (no major terrorist attack in the USA since the September 11th events) and
    the diversion of tourism to destinations closer to the USA (i.e. the Caribbean) because of the
    Iraq war may well explain this trend. In any event, improved confidence in the security at the
    country's key airport and seaport facilities brought in by the project is an important
    contributing factor to this positive development.

    At project completion, airport security in St. Vincent has improved. The security force has
    been upgraded to 28 security officers, two out of three supervisors have been hired, and an
    Airport Security Manager has been recruited. Airport management is committed to maintain
    ICAO security standards. This includes better guarding and monitoring of critical access
    points within the terminal building. Three out of a total of five air carriers recently surveyed by
    the DCA have reported improvements in security at the airport, whereas two declined to
    report any change.




                                                  - 6 -

    Security at Kingston seaport has also improved. The Port Authority has developed a Port
    Security Plan and received ISPS certification. Port management has upgraded the security
    system. It is aware of existing drawbacks, remains fully committed to meeting regulatory
    requirements, and is seeking further assistance to this end.

    At the broader sub-regional level, several positive developments are also worth noting in the
    context of project implementation. The DCA has recently become responsible for oversight
    of the OECS countries as the Civil Aviation Authority. A new Civil Aviation Act has been
    sent out to all OECS countries. The concept of a harmonized aviation regulatory framework
    for all OECS countries has also been endorsed by ICAO.

    Without ICAO endorsement, which was only earned as a result of the project, OECS
    countries currently would be unable to accept international flights. Without the arrival of
    these flights, overnight tourism would have suffered tremendous loss. Therefore, the project
    enabled OECS governments to take advantage of the increase in tourist visits over the past
    few years, which has had a positive impact on poverty reduction and overall development.

    The DCA, as the responsible oversight authority, is supporting its member countries in the
    drafting of the necessary regulatory framework.              Finally, the DCA is considering the
    establishment of a regional agency similar to the Transportation Security Agency (TSA) in the
    US.     This future objective is being accommodated in the proposed regional security
    framework.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

    Transportation sector regulations for air and maritime security changed rapidly in the months
    following the events of 9/11. International regulations underwent several revisions making it
    mandatory for countries to implement new standards as they emerged. In some cases, revised
    or new standards resulted in new demands and/or cost increases which were not originally
    forecasted under the project. This ever-changing situation made it difficult to implement some
    of the project components. Policies and legislation continue to evolve, particularly in the
    maritime sector.

    The passage of Hurricane Ivan in September 2004 caused some damages to the airport fence
    and disrupted project operations. As a result of additional works required and some delays,
    the closing date was extended by six months.

    Regulatory reviews and counterpart funds to conduct sub-regional training (from the
    institutional capacity-building component under the responsibility of the DCA) were initially
    delayed due to slow mobilization in Antigua.




                                                     - 7 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

    Tighter supervision of the PCU and timely decision-making at critical stages, particularly
    regarding the airport terminal expansion project, would have resulted in a more effective
    project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

    Management turnover and lack of familiarity with Bank procedures and reporting
    requirements impacted on the quality of overall project coordination and the pace of
    implementation. These issues subsided with substantial training and close supervision by the
    Bank team.

5.4 Costs and financing:

    The project experienced a few variations in original equipment estimates. Some security
    equipment was overestimated at the time of appraisal, as it proved difficult to evaluate the
    cost of such items, given the sudden increase in demand following 9/11. Project savings were
    used to either finance additional security equipment required (e.g. communication equipment,
    patrol vehicles and boat) or undertake works because of unforeseen events (e.g. additional
    repairs to the airport perimeter fencing after Hurricane Ivan).

    At project completion, total project costs amount to US$3.6 million compared to US$3.8
    million at appraisal. Final Bank financing is US$3.0 million, as originally planned.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

    On balance, overall project sustainability is likely.

    A unit of the Ministry of Communications, Works and Housing, the Airport Services Division
    will most likely face a major challenge in obtaining the necessary resources to maintain and
    operate the new infrastructure and security equipment.          Although the Government is
    committed to ensure that transport security remains a high priority, its ability to support this
    objective is constrained by limited financial resources.      The Port Authority, a statutory
    corporation of the Government, has more financial autonomy and has made sufficient
    provision for continued budgetary and institutional support to maintain its investments.
    Sustainability of infrastructure and security equipment is likely for the seaports but more
    questionable for the airports.

    As the training provided has been quite successful and the proposed regulatory framework has
    been well prepared to the satisfaction of the authorities, the sustainability of the institutional
    capacity component is likely. Notwithstanding these achievements, maintaining qualified
    security staff, who are able to operate and update the various project security systems, is
    questionable--unless continuous follow-on training programs are implemented. Likewise, the



                                                     - 8 -

    implementation of recommendations contained in the regulatory assessment reports will
    require not only strong political commitment from the Government, but also further technical
    assistance. Parliament's recent approval of the civil aviation act and adoption of the civil
    aviation code is a positive sign of Government's political will and commitment.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

    All physical resources have been delivered to and /or installed at the respective entity. All
    security equipment contracts include a two-year warranty and the provision of adequate spare
    parts. Where appropriate, personnel have been trained in the use and maintenance of the
    equipment.     Management and operational security personnel have also been trained in the
    discharge of their security duties, in line with emerging international standards and best
    practices relevant to their respective operations.

    In general, equipment has been put to use immediately upon delivery and commissioning.
    Security personnel have been able to use the newly acquired knowledge and skills for the
    benefit of their respective entities and the country as a whole.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


    Given the urgency of and unfamiliarity with the issues at hand (including potential
    staffing constraints), Bank performance for lending is considered satisfactory.

    Immediately after September 11, 2001, the Bank was able to mobilize and coordinate
    specialized expertise to respond to a unique event which had unpredictable consequences. It
    also played a key role in coordinating the design of the recovery program in the OECS
    countries and mobilizing donor financing. The project was prepared and presented to the
    Board in less than four months.           It was designed with a flexible structure and similar
    components to neighboring islands to ensure a coherent approach at the sub-regional level.

7.2 Supervision:

    Frequency and quality of supervision is rated satisfactory.

    Supervision was flexible and responsive to a changing environment and new institutional
    requirements. There were six supervision missions during the three and a half year
    implementation period.         Most supervision missions included strong procurement and
    emergency management skills. In addition, the Bank commissioned both a mid-term and a
    final in-depth review of the project, which were conducted by consultants with technical
    expertise in the civil aviation and maritime sectors. These independent reviews proved
    extremely useful and helped implementing agencies address critical issues and adjust their
    program accordingly.




                                                   - 9 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

    Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

    The Bank's response to an event which had unforeseeable impacts was timely, rapid and
    flexible throughout the project cycle. The Bank was also very responsive to take into account
    emerging needs in an evolving regulatory environment and to accommodate new emergency
    needs into the project when they occurred.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


    Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory.

    Government recognized quickly the consequences of the September 11th events on
    sub-regional tourism and sought Bank assistance to mitigate potential negative impacts. It
    worked closely with the Bank during preparation to allow for a speedy approval of the
    project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


    Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.

    At the outset, Government worked diligently to declare the loan and credit effective, and
    provide for sufficient counterpart funding. Government support for the project remained
    strong throughout implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


    Overall implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory.

    The PCU made good efforts to keep the project on track. Some delays in procurement
    occurred. The quality and timeliness of financial reporting was initially unsatisfactory but it
    improved over time and was satisfactory by project completion

    Implementation of the physical improvement and security equipment component was mainly
    carried out by the Port Authority with adequate institutional support and the Airport Services
    Division with only limited resources, respectively. Faced with a rapidly evolving regulatory
    environment and difficulties in finalizing technical specifications of equipment, both entities
    did their best to provide sufficient technical inputs and management supervision skills for the
    implementation of their respective components.

    Implementation of the institutional capacity building component was the responsibility of the
    OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation (DCA) on behalf of the five countries. Despite its limited
    human and financial resources, and overwhelming maritime security issues beyond the scope
    of its responsibilities--the DCA was always pro-active, satisfactorily supporting and
    coordinating the implementation of this component.


                                                - 10 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

    Overall performance by the borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


    The Bank is well positioned to respond to similar emergencies in the future. The Bank's
    judgment to engage in this emergency operation was well-founded. The country team
    immediately recognized the paradigm shift following the 9/11 events. It identified resulting
    emerging needs and engaged client countries in immediate action. Because of its capacity to
    identify, mobilize and implement key activities in record time, the Bank emerged as a key
    partner in an area where it had no specific engagement prior to the terrorist attack.

    The Bank can play an active role to assist countries in meeting established and evolving
    regulatory standards. Though it did not have all the required know-how "in house," the Bank
    effectively and successfully procured outside expertise to ensure that participating countries
    could meet evolving standards. In-depth technical reviews conducted by independent experts
    also proved particularly useful to ensure successful and flexible project implementation.

    There can be significant advantages to implementing multi-country programs through a
    regional entity. The project greatly benefited from the support of the Department of Civil
    Aviation--the regional agency that coordinated training and institutional strengthening
    activities. Such an agency was not only well positioned to establish and apply regional
    standards and policies, but also greatly benefited from having a regional project, as it
    contributed to the agency's legitimacy and institutional development.

    Regional procurement can bring important cost-benefits. Participating governments greatly
    benefited from the coordinated procurement of policy development and training activities.
    Additional benefit could have been derived, however, from the joint-purchase of key
    equipment. In addition to obvious economies of scale resulting from simplified processes,
    larger orders and reduced shipping costs--maintenance services could have been procured at
    a reduced price to preserve highly technical project equipment. Expensive spare parts could
    have been purchased in bulk and a single-firm could have been contracted to carry-out
    required maintenance work in all participating countries.

    Emergency projects benefit from close supervision. The Emergency Recovery Project in St.
    Vincent and the Grenadines was successful in great part thanks to the close and regular
    supervision of the Bank team. This was made possible by grouping supervision of five similar
    projects in the region, creating significant economies of scale. With pooled supervision funds,
    the team was able to visit all participating islands on a single mission while paying
    transportation costs only once. Had this not been the case, the Bank team would not have had
    the funds required to be closely involved in project implementation ­ to the detriment of the
    project.




                                                 - 11 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


Executive Summary

The Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines             (GoSVG) received a loan from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in the amount US$0.96 million
and a credit from the International Development Association (IDA) in the amount US$1.90
million equivalent, towards the cost of the Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Emergency Recovery
Project. The Project was declared effective on 10th July 2002. The project was scheduled to be
implemented over a three-year time frame but was extended for an additional six (6) months

Background

Borrower/Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning, National Security,
Legal Affairs and Grenadines Affairs (previously Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development).

Implementing partners: Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Port Authority, Ministry of National
Security, Ministry of Transport and Works

The Project Coordinating Unit was staffed as follows:

        PCU Staff                  Current               Predecessors            At Appraisal
Project Coordinator        Hudson Nedd             *1 (Decima Corea)        Hudson Nedd
Project Accountant         David Telesford                    n/a                    n/a
Procurement Specialist     Maurice John            Maurice Anderson &                n/a
                                                   Peter Cateau
Administrative Asst.       Ronette Jordon          Betty Murphy, *2Janelle           n/a
                                                   Allen & Diane Dacon;
                                                   *3Alisha Francis
Notes: *1Acted for 1 yr. (09/04-09-05); *2Assigned temp. (2003-04) ; *3Served at Start-up

Quality at Entry

Following the terrorist attacks on the United States of America in September 2001, the world was
faced with new security challenges, particularly in the Aviation industry. Maritime security issues
were also brought to the fore in the Caribbean region, given the economic value of this sector to
tourism and trade. The impact of the attacks on the tourism sector was estimated to be EC$11
million of lost revenue in 2001 and EC$27 million in 2002. Additionally, the GoSVG was faced
with regulatory requirements from United States and international agencies having responsibility
for aviation and maritime affairs. Appropriate measures were required to stimulate economic
recovery in a timely manner. Re-establishing confidence in the travel industry was critical and the
prevailing perception was that initiatives to improve technological and operational quality of
security at airports and seaports were priority.


                                                - 12 -

The project was designed primarily by consultants from the World Bank. In order to establish the
key project components, consultations were held with key stakeholders including the Airport and
Seaport management and the OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation. It was stated that the project
was designed to allow for a relatively quick implementation rate. However, this intention was not
fully realized due to several mitigating factors. It became apparent that there were several
ill-defined activities in the project and several activities lacked appropriateness in terms of cost
estimates. The technical specifications were at best minimal.

The beneficiary agencies, namely the airport and seaport, lacked the requisite resources to support
the PCU. Also, the Ministry of Transport and Works provided only limited input owing to limited
in-house capacity. These risk factors added significant cost to the project and severely challenged
the PCU management, retarding the rate of implementation. Some of the agreed responses
included reducing the scope of works for some of the activities, recruiting consultancy services
where appropriate, and cancelling items.

Achievement of Objectives

The objective of the project, as described in the Loan Agreement, was to assist the Borrower (the
Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines) to carry out its recovery program. The aim of
the project included safeguarding and maintaining the productive capacity of its tourist sector and
other related sectors in the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States of
America through. This was to be achieve through: (a) expanding tourism promotion through a
regional advertising campaign; (b) maintaining critical fuel imports necessary to keep
tourism-related facilities operational during the recovery period; (c) enhancing security at key
airport and seaport facilities in its territory in line with emerging international standards with the
aim of preventing further acts of terrorism and safeguarding the sub-region's image as a safe
tourist destination; (d) strengthening its institutional capacity to adopt, develop and implement
security plans, procedures and measures as mandated by international civil aviation and maritime
transport regulatory agencies in collaboration with the other Regional states; and (e) improving
the administration of off-shore financial and business services.

The overall objectives of the project were achieved to a satisfactory level. At the revised closing
date of the project, December 31st 2005, all components agreed upon in the Project Appraisal
Document were successfully implemented. The civil works, goods, services and training delivered
through the project were for the most part relevant and timely. Despite the limited capacity
residing in the agencies concerned, they provided reasonable support.

The Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines demonstrated its support for and commitment
to the project by providing adequate financing to the project. To a lesser extent, though not
inconsequential, the institutional changes they facilitated at the airport and seaports were positive
advancements. It is critical that Government and all relevant stakeholders put the necessary
systems in place to ensure that the objectives of the project are sustained and improved over time.




                                                   - 13 -

Institutional Development Impact

The project generated several positive as well as negative consequences. Many of the activities
undertaken were appropriate responses to the growing security challenges at air and sea ports
since 11th September 2001. Notwithstanding, it is evident that in the haste to respond to the
emerging economic and security issues in the USA many important considerations were omitted
from the project's design.

The benefits included the strengthening of the security component at both the airport and seaport,
in terms of increased or improved human and technological resources. The beneficiary agencies
were able to convince the regional and international regulatory agencies of their compliance with
relevant emerging standards and practice - thus maintaining their trading status with the
international community.

The area of weakness was mainly the project design. The project was designed with very little
contribution from the borrower.      Although the Bank provided assistance in developing the
technical requirements of many of the subprojects, the scale and relevance were not in sync with
local needs. In addition, the local beneficiary agencies lacked the technical capacity to provide the
PCU with relevant and timely guidance.            This contributed to significant delays in the
implementation process. There were other physical site-specific constraints (size, orientation and
adjoining land uses) working contra to the project designs.

The borrower used the existing Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) established to manage the
Disaster Management Project to manage the Emergency Recovery Project. This was accepted by
the Bank because the PCU already had a working knowledge of World Bank procedures. In
addition to having the procurement and fiduciary oversight of the project, the PCU coordinated
the activities among the Airport the Seaport and the OECS Directorate of Civil Aviation.

Notwithstanding, the PCU was at times overwhelmed with the concurrent management of the
SVG Emergency Recovery Project and the SVG Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
Project. The staff had many issues to address at once, and often times had to lead many of the
activities in order for them to be implemented. The staff turnover in the PCU, in particular, three
Procurement Officers and four Administrative Assistants, presented some challenges. However,
the staff managed to hold things together. Over the life of the project, the implementation ratings
moved from unsatisfactory to satisfactory.

Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank

The project was intended to be a quick disbursing one, given that the borrower needed a quick
economic response and recovery effort.        Lending was relatively fast, i.e. the appraisal and
approval process was short. Notwithstanding, the procurement procedures along with design
limitation contributed to slow-downs.




                                                - 14 -

The Bank's support for the project contributed to the success of the project. The team from the
bank was able to create a useful link between the OECS member state that were implementing
similar projects thus creating opportunities for sharing related experience and knowledge. The
bank has on several occasions and in various forms, provided relevant training to the PCU

In general the Bank's performance and association with the project, particularly during post
`effectiveness' was excellent.     Invaluable guidance was provided to the PCU all along the
implementation phase of the project.

Borrower

The Emergency Recovery Project is not the first project to be funded by the World Bank in St
Vincent and the Grenadines. However, the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines had to
re-establish a new project unit to implement the projects approved in 2002.           Building the
organization took some time, and developing institutional capacity took just as long. However,
the team was very enthusiastic and accelerated the learning curve.

The PCU was challenged by the limited capacity within the Ministry of Works. Despite their
inability to fulfil all its commitments given during project appraisal, the Ministry provided some
useful support on the baggage screening enclosure at the Airport. This performance shortfall
mitigated through the recruitment of design and supervision consultants. Beneficiary agencies had
very limited technical knowledge of many of the subprojects. They were, however, cooperative
and made use of every training opportunity provided under the subprojects.

Counterpart funding was never limited on this project. The Government of St. Vincent and the
Grenadines provided adequate and timely financial support for the project to ensure that the
project was successfully implemented.        Although the St.Vincent and the Grenadines Port
Authority is a statutory body, the government did not burden it with providing any financial inputs
to the project as a condition of that agency benefiting under the project. This was a commendable
approach which aided faster implementation.

Overall, the borrower performed satisfactorily despite many challenges along the way. The
human resource capacity of the PCU and the stakeholder agencies was increased several fold.
Some of the benefits accruing to the borrower include:

        1. Deepening of the partnership between the lender and borrower.
        2. Strengthening of the regional (OECS) networking particular for the management of
           World Bank funded projects.
        3. Increased project management capacity with St. Vincent and the Grenadines. The
           PCU along with the other stakeholders were further educated on the importance of
           team working in projects.
        4. Training of PCU staff in World Bank procurement and financial procedures
        5. Increased technical capacity and awareness in security infrastructure and management
           within the air and seaport agencies.
        6. Certification of the air and sea ports to ensure sustainable trade.



                                                - 15 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                             - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Not Available




Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel                     Purchased US$1.2 million of fuel           100% Completed
E.T. Joshua Airport Perimeter Fencing and  Perimeter Fence Build and Repaired post    100% Completed
Road Improvement                           Ivan. Road constructed
Bag area enclosure for screening in Joshua Enclosure constructed                      100% Completed
Airport
Access and building improvement at         Work completed                             100% Completed
Kingstown Seaport
Checked Baggage Screening System and       Equipment installed and in use             100% Completed
additional belt
ID Badging and Tracking System             Installed and in use                       100% Completed
Passenger and Hand Baggage Screening       Installed, in use and all hand baggage is  100% Completed
Systems for Airport and Port               currently screened
Airport Security Patrol Vehicle (1)        Purchased and delivered                    100% Completed
Communications Equipment at the Airport    Purchased 33 units                         100% Completed
and Port
CCTV systems at Airport and Port           Systems installed and in use               100% Completed
Sniffers at Airport and Port               Canceled                                   Canceled
Executive Training                         6 participants                             100% Completed
Security Operations Training               29 participants                            100% Completed
Specialized Training                       5 participants,                            100% Completed
TA: Regulatory Review for Enhanced         Review executed                            100% Completed
Security

1End of project




                                                              - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Critical Import
   a. Low sulfur diesel fuel                                   1.20            1.20           100
2. Security Enhancement at ports and airports
   a. Physical Improvement of Infrastructure                   0.80            1.30           163
   b. Security Equipment                                       0.95            0.88            93
   c.1. Institutional Capacity Building (training)             0.20            0.03            17
   c.2. Institutional Capacity Building (TA)                   0.11            0.06            59
3. Project Management                                          0.23            0.09            37


Total Baseline Cost                                            3.49            3.56
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.32            0.00
 Price Contingencies                                           0.00            0.00
                         Total Project Costs                   3.81            3.56
                   Total Financing Required                    3.81            3.56


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.95          0.00         0.00        0.95
                                    (0.00)           (0.62)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.62)
2. Goods                             0.93            0.09          1.20         0.00        2.22
                                    (0.82)           (0.08)      (1.20)         (0.00)     (2.10)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          0.60         0.00        0.60
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.46)         (0.00)     (0.46)
4. Operating Expenditure             0.00            0.00          0.04         0.00        0.04
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.03)         (0.00)     (0.03)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             0.93            1.04          1.84         0.00        3.81
                                    (0.82)           (0.70)      (1.69)         (0.00)     (3.21)




                                                  - 18 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               1.29              0.00             0.00              1.29
                                           (0.00)             (0.89)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.89)
    2. Goods                                0.88               0.00              1.20             0.00              2.08
                                           (0.79)             (0.00)            (1.20)            (0.00)           (1.99)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.16             0.00              0.16
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (0.14)
    4. Operating Expenditure                0.00               0.00              0.03             0.00              0.03
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.02)            (0.00)           (0.02)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.88               1.29              1.39             0.00              3.56
                                           (0.79)             (0.89)            (1.36)            (0.00)           (3.04)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Critical Import
  a. Low sulfur diesel fuel     1.20         0.00                     1.20         0.00                  100.0     0.0
2. Security Enhancement at
ports and airports
  a. Physical Improvement       0.52         0.27                     0.89         0.40                  171.2    148.1
of Infrastructure
  b. Security Equipment         0.85         0.10                     0.79         0.09                  92.9      90.0
3. Institutional Capacity
Building training
  a. Training                   0.17         0.03                     0.03         0.01                  17.6      33.3
  b. Technical Assistance       0.09         0.02                     0.06         0.01                  66.7      50.0
4. Project Management           0.19         0.04                     0.07         0.01                  36.8      25.0




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible to calculate rates of return for this type of project




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/24/2001                7    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             LEAD ECONOMIST( 1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1); SECURITY SPECIALIST
                                             (2); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/15/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL             S               S
                                             (1); LEAD ECONOMIST
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision

              10/17/2002                4    LEAD SPECIALIST, TTL (1);        S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             INTERN (1); ENGINEER (1)
              02/13/2003                3    TTL, LEAD URBAN SPEC. (1);       S               S
                                             PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1)
              05/22/2003                3    LEAD SPECIALIST (1);             S               S
                                             PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT, ENGINEER (1)
              08/27/2003                2    TTL (1); PROJECT ENGINEER        S               S
                                             (1)
              01/25/2004                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
              02/27/2004                3    TTL (1); ECONOMIST (1);          S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
              12/01/2004                2    CIVIL ENGINEER (1);              S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              04/11/2005                2    CIVIL ENGINEER (1);              S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              05/06/2005                2    AIR SECURITY SPECIALIST          S               S
                                             (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              07/12/2005                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)




                                              - 21 -

 ICR
               05/18/2005             2     OPERATIONS                        S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); CIVIL
                                            ENGINEER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               19                           53
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    13                           36
  Supervision                              24                           66
  ICR                                       3                            8
  Total                                    59                          163




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


-Memorandum and Recommendation of the President ­ Report No. P 7506-LAC
-Technical Annex - Report No. T 7506-LAC
-Consultant's final Assessment of Security Needs at Airports and Maritime Passenger Terminals
in OECS Countries in the Post September 11, 2001 Environment, February 15, 2002
-Document Credit Agreement No. 36130-SV, April 19, 2002
-Document Loan Agreement No. 71030-SV, April 19, 2002
-Financial and Audit Reports 2003-2005
-Mid Term Technical Review, February 25, 2004
-Final Technical Review, May 24, 2005
-Project Files




                                             - 25 -

- 26 -

