Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- c,l. Wc9 g-T
Report No. 8342-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 13, 1990
Africa Region, Southern Africa Department
Industry and Energy Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
Its            not         be                World



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit  =  Tanzanian Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00         =  TSh  130.0 (at time of appraisal)
US$1.00         =  TSh  195.0 (October 1990)
TShl.0          =  US$0.0051
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (mt)               =    1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 barrel (bbl)                  =    0.159 cubic meter
1 MT of Oil (API 30°)           =    7.19 barrels
1 ton of Oil Equivalent (toe) =    10 million kilocalories (39.7
million Btu)
1 kilocalorie                   =    3.97 British thermal units
(Btu)
1 US gallon                     =    3.785 liters
1 liter                         =    0.25 US gallon
1 cubic meter of wood           =    0.06 toe
ABBREVIATIONS
AGIP            Agip Tanzania, Ltd.
BOT             Bank of Tanzania
BP (T)          B.P. Tanzania Ltd.
Bulk Oil        Bulk Oil Tanzania, Ltd.
CALTEX          Caltex Oil Tanzania, Ltd.
CIF             cost, insurance and freight
DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
EC              European Communities
EIB             European Investment Bank
ERP             Economic Recovery Program
ESMAP           Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ESSO            Esso Tanzania, Ltd.
FAO             Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP             gross domestic product
GOT             Government of Tanzania
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDA             International Development Associe.tion
LPG             liquified petroleum gas
MWEM            Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
MOBIL           Mobil Tanzania, Ltd.
PSC             Project Supervisory Committee
RRP             Railway Restructuring Project
SCF             standard cubic feet
SHELL           Shell Tanzania, Ltd.
SOE             statement of expenditure
TANESCO         Tanzania Electric Supply Company
TAZARA          Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
tcm             thousand cubic meters
TIB             Tanzania Investment Bank
TIPER           Tanzanian and Italian Refinery Company Ltd.
tpa             tons per annum
TOTAL           Total Tanzania, Ltd.
TPDC            Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporatioi.
TRC             Tanzania Railway Corporation
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
USAID           United States Agency for International
Development
Fiscal Year
Government/TIB:      July 1 - June 30
TPDC:                January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCuL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR RERABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT StUMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . .     iii
I.   TEE ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Energy Supplies and Consumption  . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Key Issues in the Energy Sector    . . . . . . . . . . 3
Energy Sector Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Transport Sector in Relation to
Petroleum Distribution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Energy Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Sector Organization .              .                   7
Petroleum Procurement  ........ ... 8
Bank/IDA Role in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
II.  PETROLEUM REFININGJDISTRIBUTION SUB-SECTOR
Refining... ............  10
Supplies, Marketing and Distribution   . . . . . . . 10
Petroleum Demand   .             .12
P.icing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
III. BORROWING AND IMPLEHENTING AGENCIES
Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals   . . . . . . 15
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation   . . . . 15
Petroleum tMarketing Companies  . . . . . . . . . . . 17
IV.  TEE PROJECT
Introduction   .......  ............  19
Project Preparation  ..... .......... .  20
Project Objectives   . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Comparison of Alternatives   . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Proposed Petroleum Distribution System   . . . . . . 22
Project Description .             .         . . . . 23
Project Management and iLp.ementation.       . . . .  25
Project Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
This report was prepared by Zia Mian (AFTIE), task manager until
completion of negotiations, T. S. Nayar, Principal Engineer (AFTIE) and
Eric Daffern, Principal Financial Analyst (AF6IE) task manager since Mr.
Mian's departure. Secretarial support was provided by Mrs. Joan Pandit
and Mrs. Adriana Arriagada.   Messrs. Franco Batzella and Kenneth
Newcombe acted as lead advisors. Messrs. David Cook (AF6IE) and Stephen
Denning (AF6DR) were the managing Division Ch!.ef and Country Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Its            - - *    be



- ii -
Project Schedule and Disbursement Profile  . . . . . 31
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . .   .     .           32
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit  . .       33
Environmental and Safety Aspects   . . . . . . . . . 34
Project Supervision  ..... .       . .......   35
Proiect Monitoring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
V.  JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
Project Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Economic Rate of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Distribution Network Rehabilitation Economies  . . . 37
Tanga Bulk Oil Depot   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Project Risks  ...... . ..........    38
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMNENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . 39
ANNEXES   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    41
1-1 Energy Supp.L Demand Balance-1987    . . . . . . . . 4Z
2-1  Petroleum Distribution System    . . . . . . . . . . 43
2-2 Present Petroleum Product Allocation System    . . . 44
2-3  White Products Sales Projections   . . . . . . . . . 47
2-4 Petroleum Pricing Structure  . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
2-5 Statement on Petroleum Product Pricing Policy    . . 50
2-6  Railways and Road Transport Costs    . . . . . . . . 51
3-1  Terms of Reference for the Project Manager   . . . . 52
3-2  TPDC Organization Chart    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
3-3  MWEH Organization Chart    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
3-4  CEP Organization Chart   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
3-5  Draft Responsibilities of the
Project Implementation Team in MWEM  . . . . . . . . 58
3-6  RCC Draft Terms of Reference   . . . . . . . . . . . 59
3-7  TPDC Financial Statements, 1988 and 1987   . . . . . 61
3-8  Oil Companies Financial Statements, 1988   . . . . . 62
3-9  TIB Financial Statements, FY89 and FY88  . . . . . . 63
4-1  Project Facilities and Scope   . . . . . . . . . . . 64
4-2  Project Components and Cost Estimates    . . . . . . 71
4-3  Project Implementation Schedule    . . . . . . . . . 72
4-4  Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule   . . . . . . 73
4-5  Principles of Inter-Company Hospitality    . . . . . 74
4-6  Credit Allocation by Beneficiaries   . . . . . . . . 75
4-7  IDA Supervision Inputs into Key Activities   . . . . 76
5-1  Economic Analysis  .........   ........  77
6-1  Project Monitoring Indicators    . . . . . . . . . . 81
CHARTS AND MAPS
CHART 1     Petroleum Products Distribution
by Road System   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
CHART 2     Proposed Petroleum Products
Distribution System  . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
IBRD 22181  Transport Axis and Petroleum Products



- iii -
TNZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIt AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Government of the United Republic of Tanzania (GOT)
Implementina Ministry of Water. Energy and Minerals (MWEM),
Agencies:    independent, established petroleum marketing companies, and
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC)
Amount:      SDR 33.7 million (US$44.0 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity
On-lending  A portion of the Credit will be used by MWEM for technical
Terms:       assistance, project management and studies (US$5 million). The
balance of the proceeds will be on-lent to the project
beneficiaries fer a maximum term of 15 years (including a
five-year grace period) at an interest rate of at least 9.5
percent per annum. The Tanzania Investment Bank will
admintister the on-lent funds on behalf of GOT, and receive a 1
percent. one-time commission, and an annual fee of 1 percent
of funds on-lent to the oil companies and TPDC. Government
will bear the credit risk and the beneficiaries will bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Proiect      The objectives of the project are:  (i) to reduce the
Objectives: haulage cost of petroleum products; (ii) to improve the
supply and distribution of petroleum products, particularly in
the key agricultural areas; (iii) to implement and maintain an
appropriate petroleum pricing policy; (iv) to improve national
and transit petroleum trade; (v) to redace oil pollutior and
the threat to the environment; and (vi) to improve the
technical and managerial skills of the petroleum industry
personnel. The management of the system will be improied
through shifting responsibility for managing rail transport of
petroleum to the oil companies, with the railway companies
providing the locomotive, wagon and track services. The
management of the system will be reinforced through pr.ice and
other measures. Trausport costs will be reduced through
making greater use of rail and sea transport, and through
using the dedicated block train concept. The project would
also improve the safety of the petroleum operations, and
minimize and contain damage to the environment.
Proiect      The project will consist of seven parts:  (A) rehabilitation
Descriptions of existing storage depots and construction of new depots
for various petroleum products, and the modification of
existing and construction of new railway loading and unloading
facilities for dedicated block train handling; (B)
installation of offshore unloading facility and construction
of a new petroleum terminal at Tanga; (C) rehabilitation of
existing jetty facilities and repairs to the existing 400-ton
petroleum barge on Lake Victoria; (D) acquisition of 81
petroleum and six LPG         rl    a         (E)             of



- iv -
equipment and spare parts to rehabilitate and modernize the
exist'-ng retail outlets of the oil companies; (F) provizion of
LPG filling and marketing facilities; and, (G) technical
assistance, training and the acquisition of limited office
equipment to strengthen MWEM, TPDC and TIB, and to carry out
studies in the oil and gas sector. Credit proceeds would be
on-lent to the private petroleum marketing companies using TIB
as loan administrator. In parallel with the project, the
Italian Government will finance rehabilitation and
modifications to the TIPER refinery.
Proiect      Availability of petroleum products in the interior of Tanzania
Benefits    must be improved substantially for the Economic Recovery
and Risks:  Program to be sustained.  The proposed project Is the least
cost option for making petroleum products relia_ly available
throughout the country. Improvements in household petroleum
fuel supply (e.g., LPG) will relieve fuelwood pressure
equivalent to 35,000 hectares of natural woodlands that would
otherwise be required to supply energy on a sustained basis.
Principal benefits of the project are the cost savings to be
derived from: (a) direct import of products at Tanga instead
of transhipment by road; (b) bulk transport of petroleum by
rail in properly managed block trains instead of piece-meal
movement mainly by road; and (c) sustained involvement and
imprDved efficiency of the private companies in the petroleum
sector.
Because project preparation proceeded with the benefit of
detailed consultation between IDA Government, oil marketing
companies and railways officials, the risk of delays through
misunderstaei4ing project objectives and components has been
minimized. The risk of procurement delays is limited because
the goods to be acquired are either replacement parts or of
standard specification. Risk that delays in implementation of
the refinery modification (which is to be financed in parallel
by the Italian Government) will slow implementation of some of
the IDA and co-financed components will be minimized by close
monitoring by the project implementation team in MWEM.
The biggest risk is that the Tanzania Railway Corporation
MTRC) will continue to underperform. To address, this
implementation of components involving TRC has been phased to
coincide with the implementation of the Tanzania Railway
Restructuring Project, and GOT and IDA will review annually
the progress of the TRC modernization program. There is also
the possibility of delay due to insufficient coordination
among the implementing agencies and other Government agencies.
A Project Supervisory Committee (PSC) is being established
with representation from all implementing agencies, and a
full-time project implementation team, headed by an
experienced Project Manager, will be established within MWEM                  Km
to overcome this problem and monitor continuously the progress
of the project. Technical assistance funds are provided to
hire the Project Manager, a Petroleum Products Transport
Specialist and Legal Specialist with suitable experience.
Finally, given TIB's past difficulties, it will be important
to monitor closely its administration of on-lent funds.



However, the risk of delays resulting from TIB's involvement                 mm
has been minimized by limiting the role of TIB to loan
administration, with GOT/MWEM doing project appraisals and
providing support and guidance to TIB, and by strengthening
the relevant sections of TIB through financing of training and
equipment.
Cost Estimates:
Proiect Conmonents                Local             Foreign               Total
<   --- USS million --------->
Storage depots                    18.6                29.4                 48.0
Rail loading/unloading
facilities                   3.4                  8.8                 12.2
Tanker receiving facilities
at Tanga                     1.2                  4.3                  5.5
Lake Victoria
jetty facilities             0.2                  1.5                  1.?
Rail tank wagons                    -                  6.0                  6.0
LPG tank trucks                                        1.6                  1.6
Lake Victoria barge                 -                  1.0                  1.0
LPG filling & marketing
facilities                   0.6                  5.0                  5.6
Spare parts, transport equipment
& rehab. of retail network  3.6                  11.4                 15.0
Technical assistance &
project management           2.0                  5.0                  7.0
Total project costs v            £LA                 1J                  10.
11   Where local duties and taxes are applicable, they will be borne by the
beneficiaries and paid in local currency. MWEM will recommend to
Government to defer the payment of taxes until the project facilities are
fully operative. All beneficiaries are operating entities and interest
during construction will be financed from operating income and will not be
capitalized. Contingencies are included at approximately 30Z for both
local costs and foreign costs. This includes physical contingency
averaging about 16Z (reflecting the uncertainty in rehabilitation projects)
and price continjency of about 142 on average.



- vi -
Financing Plan:                                                   i of
Local    Foreign    Total       Total
<---- US$ Mlllion Zquivalent----->
IDA                                 -        44.C     44.0        42.5
DANIDA                              -         2.5       2.5        2.4
EIB *                               -         8.9       8.9        8.6
EC *-                                         6.0       6.0        5.8
Government of Netherlands           -         6.5       6.5        6.3
OPEC Fund                           -         6.1       6.1        5.8
TPDC/Government/Oil Companies   29.6           -      29.6        28.6
TOTAL                         324         z74 0    I2LA       "
*     Availability of funds is subject to ratification of Lome IV by
member governments. If EIB financing is delayed GOT will secure
alternative financing sources. Rail tank wagons (to be financed by EC) are
a critical component and if necessary could be financed through the OGL.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
---------      s$ Million-------------------->
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Annual                       1.3    3.2    9.0   10.5   11.0    7.8    1.2
Cumulative                   1.3    4.5   13.5   24.0   35.0   42.8   44.0
Special     Two Special Accounts will be established, one for the
Accounts:   MWEH, with an allocation of US$150,000 and the other for the
Tanzania Investment Bank, with an allocation US$1,200,000
million for facilitating the implementation of pr-oject
components by the established petroleum marketing companies.
Economic    26 percent for the rehabilitation project (excluding benefits
Rate of     from transit trade) and 15 percent for the Tanga bulk petroleum
Return:     terminal).



TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Introduction
1.01      The Economy.  Tanzania's economy has undergone a protracted
deterioration during the past 10 years, characterized by stagnating
production and declining exports, deteriorating physical infrastructure,
rising inflation, mounting debt, and large accumulation of external
arrears. In response to the rapidly deteriorating economic situation, the
Government launched Economic Survival Plans in 1980 and 1981, and a
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in 1982. The three-year SAP was
designed to stimulate production, improve capacity utilization and
efficiency, and restore financial and economic stability, but the measures
adopted were insufficient to achieve the results sought. In mid-1986,
after consultations with the Bank and IMF, the Government introduced a
medium-term Economic Recovery Program (ERP). ERP is a gradual program of
policy reforms which takes account of Tanzania's socio-political context
and is aimed at achieving a positive growth rate in real per capita income,
reducing the rate of inflation, and restoring a sustainable balance of
payments pw..Ition. Its main thrust is to reduce distortions and encourage
efficient resource allocation while exercising fiscal and monetary
restraint.
1.02      The Government of Tanzania (GOT) has successfully carried
through its commitment to adjust the exchange rate, improve incentives, and
control the growth in the government budget and government borrowing from
the banking system. However, the tesponses from the economy have been
mixed. There has been some revival in agriculture and the decline in
export crop production has been checked. While some industrial firms are
now expanding output, many others continue to face difficulties. As
production has picked up, the critical nature of bottlenecks in transport,
availability of vital inputs (e.g. petroleum fuels), processing and storage
has become more evident. Thus, although the decline in the economy has
been checked, revival is still in its early stages. In order to improve
the economic performance and consolidate the gains of government efforts,
critical bottlenecks (e.-., in energy and infrastructure) must be removed.
1.03      Energy Sector.  Tanzania's indigenous energy resources are large
and diverse, but little exploited so far. In addition to vast, but
unevenly distributed forestry resources, the country has: (a) coal
deposits in the south-western region with estimated proven reserves of
about 300 million tons; (b) significant gas deposits at Songo Songo and
Manazi Bay; (c) hydropower potential estimated at about 4,500 MW, of which
330 MW have so far been developed; and (d) some unexplored geothermal and
uranium potential.
1.04      The UNDP and the World Bank jointly reviewed the energy sector
of Tanzania in 1984 and their conclusion and recommendations were
summarized in a report entitled "Tanzania - Issues and Options in the
Energy Sector" (the Assessment Report). The recommendations in the report
are still valid. To improve the energy situation in Tanzania, the
Assessment Report recommended, inter alia, the:



- 2-
(a) rehabilitation of the petroleum refining and distribution
system;
(b, development of Tanzania's natural gas finds, which are the only
significant proved hydrocarbon resource in the country;
(c) continuance of the petroleum exploration effort by the private
sector; and
(d) strengthening of the energy sector institutions.
Eneray Supplies and Consumption
1.05      Consumption.  Tanzania'o final energy consumption in 1981
totalled about 9 million tons of oil equivalent (toe) of which 92 percent
wa,i - the form of fuelwood and charcoal (b4omass) and the balance (8
pe.:-srz) commercial energy (hydroelectricity, coal and petroleum products).
The fuelwood and charcoal is mainly used for domestic purposes. The
overall per capita energy consumption, estimated to be about 470 kilograms
of oil equivalent (Kgoe), was comparable to other developing countries at
similar levels of per capita income.
1.06      In 1987, the energy consumption mix was unchanged and the total
consumption was 10.6 million toe, of which about 92 percent (9.8 million
toe) was in the form of fuelwood and charcoal and the remaining 8 percent
was provided by commercial sources such as hydroelectricity, coal and
imported petroleum and petroleum products (Annex 1-1). In 1987, the total
energy consumption by economic sector was: (a) households, 90 percent; (b)
agriculture, 4 percent; (c) transport, 3 percent; (d) industry, 2 percent;
and (e) others, about 1 percent. The amounts of fuelwood that are consumed
are high and natural regeneration and current reforestation programs cannot
keep pace with the rates of depletion. Following table gives a breakdown
of total and commercial energy consumption by economic sectors.
Table 1s 1987 Energy ConsumPtion by Economic Sector
Total Energy         Commercial Energy
Economic Sector          '000 toe      1          '000 toe      Z
Industry                     200       1.9            200      24.6
Transport                    329       3.1            329      40.5
Household                  9,522      89.8            152      18.6
Agriculture                  385       3.6             67       8.8
Commerce                      21       0.2             21       2.6
Others                       151       1.4             45       5.5
TOTAL             1P                              Am
Source: Annex 1-1.
1.07      Supplies.  The gross supply of primary energy in 1987 amounted
to about 11.7 million toe (Annex 1-1), including: (a) 10.6 million toe of
fuelwood and charcoal (91 percent); (b) 0.3 million toe of hydroelectricity
(2 percent); (c) 0.84 million toe of petroleum and petroleum products (7
percent); and (d) 17.5 thousand toe of coal.



-3-
Key Issues in the Energy Sector
1.08      The key issues in the energy sector include: (a) excessive
pressure on biomass resouzces in arid and/or heavily populated areas,
leading to shortages of traditional fuels and environmental degradation;
(b) preemption by petroleum imports of about 30 percent of scarce foreign
exchange earnings that have a high opportunity cost; (c) inadequate supply
and high cost of petroleum fuels, particularly in remote areas. due to a
run down distribution system; (d) unreliable power supply, due primarily to
inadequate maintenance and reinforcement of the power distribution system;
(e) expansion of coal output ahead of demand; (f) pricing policies which do
not sufficiently promote the even distribution of petroleum products in the
country; and (g) poor operational performance of the public energy supply
organizations due to a combinat4cn of inadequate salaries and low skill
levels. At the request of GOT, tk.e Bank is reviewing the energy sector
strategy and assisting Government in developing priority investment
programs and policies in the energy sector. The energy sector initiatives
and sub-sector strategies are briefly outlined in the following section.
Energy Sector Strategy
1.09      Tanzania's strategy for tackling the declining supply of
traditional fuels has mainly focussed on efforts to improve the management
of existing natural woodlands and accelerate community and farm tree
planting programs. Both these measures require strengthening of the
forestry extension service, through the provision of trained manpower,
tools, transport and communication equipment. Several donors, such as the
Swedish International Development Agency and the Food and Agriculture
Organization, are actively supporting Government's effort in this area. At
the request of the GOT, the UNDP'World Bank's Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESMAP) has examined the issues and options related to
urban fuelwood supply and recommended a six-year project to: (a) improve
the protection and management of reserved and natural woodlands; (b)
improve the forestry extension system so as to raise the level of village
community and small-holder participation in tree growing; (c) establish
four peri-urban plantations; (d) disseminate information on efficient
charcoal production methods; (e) strengthen the forestry institutions; and
(f) encourage inter-fuel substitution. 1/ IDA is preparing a forestry
project to help Government in complementing the initiatives of other donors
and alleviating potential fuelwood supply/demand deficits in the catchment
zones for the four largest urban areas.
1.10      While the foreign exchange needed to finance imports of
petroleulm declined from US$210 million in 1984 to about US$145 million in
1986, it has since returned to earlier levels as a result of recent price
increases. Imported petroleum continues to supply 90 percent of the
commercial energy needs and account for over 30 percent of Tanzania's
foreign exchange earnings from exports. rhe discovery of natural gas
11   Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program,
Activity Completion Report No. 086/88, Tanzania: Woodfuel/Forestry Project,
December, 1988.



-4-
offers a cost-effective potential domestic substitute for imported
petroleum and the development of this sector is a high priority for
Government. With the help of the Canadian International Development Agency
and IDA, Government has already assessed the potential for domestic use of
gas and has confirmed the gas reserves. A pipelint to s4pply gas to the
Dar es Salaam market and new power generationt facilities has been shown to
be promising. Government is in the process of reviewing updated power
sector development plans that assess the relative economic cost of hydro
and gas base-load genevation so that a decision can be made on possible
pipeline investment.
1.11      The existing storage and rail unloading facilities at inland
bulk depots are not equipped to receive petroleum products by dedicnted
block trains and have been the main causes of erratic and costly int#rnal
distribution of products.  Electricity prices have been raisel at six-month               9
intervals, with the agreed objective of making the Tanzania Electric Supply
Corporation (TANESCO) financially viable by the end of 1990. The issue of
petroleum prices is being addressed through a petroleum product pricing
policy study that would develop a mechanism for pricing adjustment. Pending
finalization of this study, Government has adjusted upward the level of all
petroleum prices and has broadly aligned prices with import parity.
Therefore, apart from the specific need to address margins in the light of
investment financing needs, there are no major pricing issues in need of
attention.
1.12      The problem of inadequate staff skills and motivation in the
petroleum sector is being addressed in the proposed project through the
establishment of joint industry and Government Project Supervisory
Committee (PSC) and support to the local implementation team through the
provision of adequate funding for technical assistance in the form of an
experienced project manager to head the project implementation team, a
transport specialist and a legal expert on intern.:tional contracts.  In
electric power sector, IDA and TANESCO are jointly developing a staff
incentive and training program. Within the context of this project,
Government intends to follow a similar approach for the petroleum sector.
Transport Sector in Relaticn to Petroleum Distribution
1.13      Given the size of Tanzania (about 945,000 square km), efficient
supply of petroleum and petroleum products is contingent upon the
efficieacy of the transport sector. Centers of economic activity and
demand for petroleum products in particular are widely distributed
(paras 2.05 and 4.12) around its geographic periphery: Moshi, Tanga, and
Dar es Salaam along or within close pro.zimity of the eastern coastline;
Mwanza and the surrounding cotton and coffee producing areas around the
Lake Victoria area; Kigoma in the west around Lake Tanganyika; and Mbeya in
the south-west on the TAZARA railway system; etc. The transport network
that links these centers is characterized by long haul movements. The
transport system also serves as an important corridor for the transit trade
to landlocked neighboring countries (Burundi, Malawi, Rwanda, Uganda,
Zambia and eastern Zaire).



- 5 -
1.14      The performance of the transport sector has deteriorated sharply
over the last decade and it has been unable to support adequately the needs
of the agricultural sector (which is Tanzania's main source of export
earnings) both in terms of the distribution of inputs and the movement of
domestic production. As a result, petroleum product supplies in the
principal agricultural areas are often low and periodically depleted
altogether. The extremely poor road conditions cause heavy strain on the
road tanker fleet, while rail tankers and rail loading/unloading facilities
are grossly inadequate. Excessive dependence on long distance road
transport (Chart 1) has resulted in high rates of damage to the road
surface (para 2.08 and Annex 5-1) and persistent shortages of petroleum
products.  The lake and coastal tankers are mostly out of operation for
want of maintenance and rehabilitat 3n and products have to be moved on
gravel roads around the lake. For example, to supply products to Musoma on
Lake Victoria, the tank trucks have to travel a distance of about 1,420 km,
mostly on gravel roads, from Dar es Salaam (Chart 1). The road distance
from Dar es Salaam to Kigoma is about 1,540 km, mostly by gravel road.
1.15      In the past two years, Government strategy in the transport
sector has undergone a pronounced shift. The current three-year Transp- t
Sector Public Investment Prcgram places greater emphasis on providing o
mobilizing the resources necessary to rehabilitate the existing stock of
assets in the sector and introducing regulatory reforms. These reforms, if
implemented, will form the basis for a rational allocation of trarnsport
services as well as foster greater cost-recovery and self-sustaining
financial performance in the sector.
1.16      The Bank group is assisting the Government to mobilize financing
from bilateral and multilateral agencies for high priority investments and
maintenance activities and schemes to strengthen transport sector agencies.
In the railway sector, GOT and IDA are considering possible IDA support for
a project to improve the efficiency and financial viability of the Tanzania
Railways Corporation (TRC), thereby reducing the losses imposed on the
economy by TRC's poor performance, through the operational, organizational
and financial restructuring of TRC. Through this project, IDA would also
assist Government in coordinating overall donor support to the sector. The
implementation of these investment programs will allow operational
streamlining of petroleum supplies and distribution through bulk movement
by railways (Chart 2).
Energy Resources
1.17      Oil and Gas.  Although there are numerous potential structures,
and oil exploration activity has been on-going for several years (with
about 23 exploratory wells being drilled so far), no liquid petroleum has
as yet been discovered. The two areas that have been explored fairly
extensively include the Rift Valley and the Coastal Sedimentary Basin.
Exploration of the Rift Valley area is promising and the Government is
continuing its efforts to promote further exploration by attracting private
sector interests. For this purpose, a comprehensive exploration promotion
package was developed, from IDA assistance provided under the on-going
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1604-TA). Exploration
promotion meetings were held in London (Nov. 28, 1989) and Houston (Dec. 5,
1989). The London meeting was attended by 79 specialists representing 50
oil companies and the Houston meeting was attended by 86 specialists



- 6 -
representing 54 oil companies. As a result of these meetings, seven
companies have already expressed interest in exploring for oil in Tanzania.
1.18      Natural gas has heen discovered at Songo Songo and Manazi Bay
while potential gas bearing structures have been identified at Nyuni, Songo
Songo West and Barakuni. Songo Songo is the only source with sufficient
proven supply to merit development and exploitation at this time. The
Songo Songo reserves are located at Songo Songo Island, about 220 km (138
miles) southeast of Dar es Salaam and about 20 km (12 miles) offshore (IBRD
Map 22181).
1.19      On the basis of the initial assessment, the proven gas reserves
at Songo Songo are estimated at about 725 billion standard cubic feet
(scf). Five gas production wells have been developed: three offshore (SS-
5, SS-7 and SS-9) and two on-shore wells (SS-3 and SS-4). The three
offshore wells are considered sufficient for primary production from the
field and the two on-shore as backup supply to the primary wells.
Government is currently evaluating the status of these reserves and is keen
to develop them for supplying gas to the domestic market and poso'Dly to an
export-oriented fertilizer plant. Gas reservoir evaluation and pipeline
feasibility studies have been completed with IDA and Canadian assistance,
focussed on identifying least-cost economic alternatives for the
development and use of Tanzania's gas reserves. Power system development
studies confirm the economic importance of gas as a major source of power
generation, with a series of gas turbines to be installed durir.g the 1990s.
1.20      Coal.  Tanzania's coal resources are estimated at about 1.2
billion tons of sub-bituminous and bituminous coal. Reserves of about 300
million tons are proven. Two coal fields, Songwe-Kiwira and Ketewake-
Mchuchuma, have been investigated by geological teams. Currently Ilima and
Kiwira mines are in production. Ilima is a small open-cast mine with a
design capacity of 10,000 tons per annum (tpa) and its average production
is about 3,000 tpa. Its reserves are nearly exhausted, although an adjacent
block of reserves is scheduled to produce about 50,000 tpa. Kiwira with
assistance from People's Republic of China and a design capacity of 150,000
tpa started production in December 1988.  Currently this mine is producing
at about 27,030 tpa. The coal is mainly used by Mbeya Cement Company,
Southern Paper Hills and the nearby tea industry. The sector strategy,
currently under development by Government, is expected to focus on the
promotion of coal as a substitute fuel for industry, agriculture and
households. The strategy would review and investigate the investments
needed for:
(a) provision of an efficient coal transport and distribution
system;
(b) expansion of coal mining facilities;
(c) conversion of industrial and agricultural sectors to coal; and
(d) acquisition of skill in coal usage, including development and
popularization of suitable coal stoves for household use.



- 7 -
1.21      Hydropower.  So far, a total of some 4,500 MW of potential power
sites with 21,000 Gwh of firm annual energy have been identified. Of the
total installed capacity of 413 MW, some 329 MW is hydro-based. In 1988
the hydro-based generation amounted to 1,252 Gwh. The recently updated
Master Power Plan (September 1990) has identified the need for additional
generating capacity by 1992 (10-20 MW of thermal which could be switched to
operate on gas when and if that becomes available) followed by the Pangani
Hydroelectric Development (60 MW) by 1995 and either the Kihansi Hydro
Scheme (3x54 MW) by 1997 and gas by 1999, or alternatively gas by 1996 and
Kihansi by 2003. Currently, TANESCO is rehabilitating several of its
thermal plants and a decision as to the size of the plant to be installed
by 1992 will be made when actual load growth for 1989 has been analyzed and
the short-term load forecast is reviewed. The Pangani scheme is being
financed by Finland, Norway and Sweden and is expected to come on stream by
1993/94. There are several other potential schemes, some of which are high
priority candidates for feasibility studies.
1.22      Fuelvood.  In Tanzania, fuelvood provide about 98 percent of
household energy and about 92 percent of total energy needs. In 1987, per
capita fuelwood consumption in the urban areas was estimated to be about
415 Kgoe per year. The total fuelwood consumption in 1987 was estimated at
10.6 million toe, which is expected to increase by 3.2 percent per annum to
about 16 million toe by the year 2000. The supply/demand situations will
vary from region to region, with large deficits occurring in Mwanza,
Shinyanga and Arusha and surpluses occurring in Lindi, Morogoro and Ruvuma
regions. Some fuelwood may move from surplus regions into deficit regions,
but accessibility and transport cost would limit this movement and cause a
worsening fuelwood crisis in supply shortage areas. Ir. 1987, the Arusha
catchment had about a 0.7 million cubic meters dificit, which is expected
to rise to about 2.0 million cubic meters by year 2000. IDA is preparing a
project to assist the Government to deal with the fuelwood crisis (para
1.09).
Sector Organization
1.23      While the refining and marketing of petroleum and petroleum
products is mainly done by the private sector, the Government plays a
dominant role in overall energy policy. Responsibility for the energy
sector rests with several agencies. MWEM is in charge of hydrocarbons,
electricity, coal, uranium and other energy resources (Annex 3-3). The
Ministry of Lands, Tourism and Natural Resources is responsible for
forestry and fuelwood. In addition to policy formulation responsibilities,
the ministries also supervise the activities of the parastatal
organizations under their jurisdiction. As regards the commercial energy
sector, MWEM supervises various parastataLs such as TPDC, TANESCO, and the
State Mining Corporation.
1.24      Within MWEM, energy sector matters are dealt with by the Energy
Department. The Energy Department is responsible for energy planning and
policy activities, evaluation of energy projects and monitoring TPDC's and
TANESCO's operations, and reviewing and recommending actions on the energy
pricing. The department is headed by the Commissioner for Energy and
Petroleum Affairs, and is divided into three divisions: Petroleum,



- 8 -
F,ectricity and Energy Systems. It has a total staff of 32, 24 of whom are
professional (Annex 3-4). The Petroleum Division has a core staff of 10
qualified and dedicated Tanzanian professionals and is relatively well run.
This division will have the responsibility for implementing the proposed
project. For this purpose it will establish a project implementation team
(para 4.19).
1.25      TPDC is responsible for the implementation of Government
policies In the petroleum sector. Established in 1969 as a parastatal
corporation, it has all petroleum rights vested in it and is responsible
for oversight of exploration, for petroleum imports and their refining and
sales to the marketing companies. The Tanzanian and Italian Petroleum
Refining Company, Ltd. (TIPER) is jointly owned by TPDC and AGIP Petroli
(50 percent ownership by each). It is responsible for the refining of the
crude oil, all of which is imported by TPDC.
1.26      All except one of the established petroleum marketing companies
are subsidiaries of international established petroleum marketing
companies. TPDC owns 50 percent of each of the two largest oil companies
in Tanzania, AGIP and BP (T). The ownership of the remaining subsidiaries
of international companies is held by their international parents (Caltex,
Esso, Mobil, Shell and Total). In all of these cases, except Caltex, the
management is provided by the parent companies. One company, Bulk Oil, is
a local company. The Government looks to the private sector to provide the
technical and financial inputs and take operational lead in the areas of
exploration, petroleum supply and distribution.
Petroleum Procurement
1.27      The Government, through TPDC, holds the responsibility for
commercial arrangements to obtain crude oil and petroleum products for
Tanzania. By negotiating commercial supply contracts on a yearly basis for
the country's requirements, it endeavors to obtain the zest possible prices
and terms. However, due to severe foreign exchange constraints and absence
of a reliable foreign exchange budgeting system, the procurement of
petroleum in the past few years has not been as cost effective as could be
achieved in more favorable circumstances. Until foreign exchange
availability improves, Tanzania will be hard pressed to arrange petroleum
supplies through suppliers at contracts that are on the least cost and most
favorable financing terms.
1.28      Within the context of current foreign exchange constraints and
level of financing which is needed, it will be difficult for Tanzania to
obtain the most advantageous terms through the mechanism of international
competitive bidding. However, Tanzania has already taken steps to improve
the situation by making the supply of refined petroleum products more
competitive, using the recently established Oper General License
arrangements. As the foreign exchange situation improves, Government will
seek to improve the situation by exploring solutions and alternatives for
buying crude oil in order to minimize financing, fob and affreightment
costs. It was agreed at the negotiations that as a matter of some urgency
the Borrower would arrange for consultants to study and recommend
improvements in the system of purchasing crude oil, the financing



arrangements (currently linked to coffee exports) and the related coffee
marketing arrangements.
Bank/IDA Role in the Sector
1.29      The Bank group has long been involved in Tanzania's energy
sector, starting with a Loan (Ln. 518-TA) of US$5.2 million in 1969, to
meet the projected power demand for 1970-71. The last IDA Credit of US$40
million equivalent was approved in 1986 (Cr. 1687-TA) for the
rehabilitation of the power sector. A US$6.3 million IDA Credit was
approved in 1983 for a Coal Engineering Project (Cr 1371-TA). In the
petroleum sector, Tanzania has received three IDA Credits for exploration
(Cr. S27-TA, Cr. 1199-TA and Cr. 1604-TA). The first for US$30 million in
1980 was for the initial phase of the Songo Songo exploration program. The
second in 1982 was for US$20 million to finance the second phase of the
program. The combined drilling program resulted in the discovery of
natural gas reserves of 725 billion scf. A regional aeromagnetic survey
was completed by Tanzania, Zaire, Burundi and Uganda, in each case financed
out of existing World Bank Group technical assistance projects for those
countries. The Bank also sponsored a seismic reconnaissance program over
Lake Tanganyika that confirmed the findings of the aeromagnetic survey. A
Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1604-TA) was approved in
1985. This Credit has financed the workovers of Songo Songo gas wells, a
domestic gas utilization study, and a petroleum product distribution study.
The Credit has also helped Tanzania: (a) prepare a comprehensive
exploration promotion package; (b) reconfirm gas reserves; (c) undertake
the Petroleum Pricing Policy Study; (d) evaluate domestic gas pipeline
options; and (e) strengthen the competence of local staff through training.
1.30      Through its support to Tanzania in the energy sector over the
past 20 years, particularly under the Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance
Project and the UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Report, the Bank Group
has built a detailed knowledge of the petroleum sector and sectoral
institutions. Through the information and knowledge gaired from the
Petroleum Product Distribution Study, the Bank Group is well-positioned to
assist the Government in rehabilitating the petroleum supply and
distribution network. The proposed project is consistent with the overall
Bank Group strategy in the country and complements the efforts which the
donor community is collectively making to support economic recovery, and
rehabilitation of the infrastructure and transport sectors in Tanzania.
The project design has attracted considerable interest from the donor
community in co-financing the project.
1.31      A proposal to rehabilitate the TIPER refinery, estimated to cost
US$12 million, is considered high priority by Government. Foreign exchange
cost of this rehabilitation w'll be financed, in parallel with the project,
by a grant from the Italian Government. Because of linkages with the
supply and distribution aspects of the petroleum industry, Government has
asked the Bank Group to associate this rehabilitation with the project and
to assist in supervising its implementation.



- 10 -
II. PETROLEUM SUB-SECTOR
Refining
2.01      The Tanzanian and Italian Refinery Company, Ltd. (TIPER)
refinery has a design capacity of 750,000 tpa based on crude oils such as
Iranian Light, and yields about 700,000 tpa of refined petroleum products.
Since the refinery lacks the secondary processing facilities for cracking
the residue, the yield pattern of the refinery is not in balance with
current demand for refined products, creating deficits for gasoline,
kerosene and gas oil, and a surplus of fuel oil. To reduce this imbalance,
Tanzania has in recent years imported lighter crude oil or spiked the
heavier crude oils with products. When the spiked component in the crude
oils increases, the refinery capacity utilization is restricted to about
650,000 tpa, and the balance of the requirements is satisfied by importing
finished products. The surplus fuel oil from the refinery is exported as
bunker fuel.
2.02      The refinery's own fuel use and loss average around 7 percent,
which is high compared to the prevailing industry standards of about 4
percent for refineries of similar configuration. An engineering study by
Snamprogetti, an Italian company, has proposed energy conservation measures
and recovery of additional products, especially liquified petroleum gas
(LPG), by minor modifications and additions to the existing refinery
facilities. The rehabilitation and modification of the refinery will be
financed by the Italian Government in parallel with the proposed project,
and would: (a) increase the availability of products; (b) reduce refinery
fuel/losses; (c) bring environmental standards to international levels; (d)
provide safety against fire hazard; and (e) repair the crude oil and
product pipelines belonging to the refinery.
Supplies, Marketing and Distribution
2.03      Supplies.  TPDC is the sole importer of crude oil (para 1.27)
and imports the majority of refined petroleum products for the local
market, except for products imported under commodity aid. The crude oil is
refined at the TIPER refinery on a processing fee basis (currently
estimated at US$11.70/ton) paid by TPDC. The ownership of products refined
in Tanzania remains with TPDC until it sells them to each marketing company
for distribution. Once delivered into their storage tanks, the products
become the property of the established petroleum marketing companies.
Under normal circumstances, the marketing companies send the products from
Dar es Salaam to their regional or up-country depots by rail or road
tankers, and to Mtwara, Pemba and Zanzibar (and to some extent to Tanga) by
coastal ships. The established petroleum marketing companies receive
available supplies according to a moving market share. They allocate the
available fuel to their customers depending on the availability of
transport capacity and consequently cities far from Dar es Salaam get
supplies less than needed. A description of present petroleum product
allocation system is given in Annex 2-2.
2.04      Marketing.  The marketing system is managed primarily by: the
five established petroleum marketers Agip (Tanzania), Ltd. (AGIP), B. P.



- 11 -
Tanzania, Ltd. SBP (T)), Calte. Oil Tanzania, Ltd. (CALTEX), Esso Tanzania,
Ltd. (ESSO) and Total Tanzani&, Ltd. (TOTAL). Three new marketers -- ilobil
Tanzania, Ltd. (MOBIL), Shell Tanzania, Ltd. (SHELL) and Bulk Oil Tanzania,
Ltd. (Bulk Oil) -- were licensed to enter the market in early 199n.
2.05      The Tanzanian petroleum market is divided into four major zones:
(a) Western (includes Mwanza, Kigoma, Mpanda, Isaka, Tabora, Bukoba and
Musoma), representing 16 percent of the market; (b) Northern (includes
Tanga, Arusha and Moshi), representing 22 percent of the market; (c)
Southern Highlands (includes Mikumi, Makambako and Mbeya), representing 12
percent of the market; and (d) Dar es Salaam (includes Dar es Salaam,
Zanzibar, Mtwara, Pemba and Dodoma), representing 50 percent of the market.
Table 2 below shows the market share for 1988 of each established company
by marketing zone.
Table 2: 1988 Market Share (?) by Coman, and Zone
Zone              AGIP  BP      CALTEX      ESSO  TOTAL Total
Western             25   44       10          13     8      16
Northern            32   35      11            6    15      22
Southern High.      18   47      17            5     9      12
Dar es Salaam       21   45      12           12     9      50
TOTAL            2i                         12    12    122
2.06      Distribution.  The established marketers distribute petroleum
products through a network of 15 bulk supply points and 350 retail outlets
(service stations, filling stations and pump outlets). Each of the
established marketers maintains a regional or district manager and/or sales
representative to oversee the distribution in each marketing area. They
are responsible for ensuring that all customers are served as efficiently
as possible.  Where some established marketers do not have storage depots,
they receive inter-company hospitality from the companies which have depot
facilities. Inter-company hospitality is a common feature in the oil
industry. If one lacks storage or terminal facilities at a certain
location, it receives service from a company with adequate facilities. The
company receiving the service may reciprocate at a location where the other
company lacks facilities, or, the companies may agree on a through-put fee
for the services rendered. This feature, while enabling a marketing
company to service its customers at remote and small markets, allows it to
keep its investment at a minimum level. The Tanzanian system is set out in
Annex 2-3.
2.07      The existing distribution infrastructure is old and has suffered
from maintenance neglect due to lack of liquidity and foreign exchange.
Over the years, because of shortage of spares, retail outlets in remote
areas with low volume have been cannibalized to supply spare parts for
higher volume outlets.
2.08      Currently, the refined products are transported by the
established petroleum marketing companies, mainly by road, to their
respective distribution area/regional depots or directly to retail outlets
or bulk customers (Chart 1). Comparatively small volumes of petroleum
products are transported by rail over the Tanzania Railway Corporation



- 12 -
(TRC) network to the North and West, but none on a regular basis over the
Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) system. TRC provides product
transport facilities on Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika by lake barges.
Supply to Zanzibar, Htwara, Pemba and Tanga is by coastal tankers.  Road
transport of products is done by private operators under contract with the
marketing companies. The movement of heavy petroleum tank trucks causes
considerable damage to the roads, estimated at US$2 per ton (Annex 5-1).
Petroleum Demand
2.09      Historical.  In the recent past, due to economic recovery
efforts, Tanzania has registered significant growth in demand for petroleum
products. Total petroleum consumption in the country increased from 697
thousand cubic meters (tcm) in 1984 to 920 tcm in 1988 (a growth of 7.2
percent p.a.). In 1988 petroleum consumption consisted o' t87 tcm of black
products and 731 tcm of white products. While on a country-wide basis,
demand for black products has stagnated, the demand for white products has
increased at about 9.4 percent p.a. In 1988, about 50 percent of the
demand was in the up-country areas and the balance in the costal regions
(Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Mtwara, Pemba and Zanzibar). Historically, the up-
country demand for black products has declined (2.5 percent p.a. since
1984), and the white products demand registered an average increase of 11.6
percent p.a., a significantly higher increase than the corresponding
coastal area growth of 7.9 percent p.a. (Annex 2-3). For example, the up-
country demand for white products increased from 246 tcm in 1987 to 323 tcm
in 1988, a growth of about 30 percent.
2.10      Projections.  The Government and the oil industry, through the
Project Working Group (PWG), collectively reviewed the demand trends in
Tanzania and prepared projections up to 1997 (Annex 2-3) for each
geographic area (para 4.12). The projections assume that: (a) the
transport system for the bulk movement of petroleum products will be in
place; (b) there will be no constraints in the supply of products; and (c)
the prices of petroleum products will continue to reflect their economic
and financial costs. It is projected that, between 1989 and 1997, demand
for white products will grow at 3.3 percent p.a. in the northern (Moshi and
Arusha), and the central and lakes areas (Kigoma and Lake Tanganyika), and
by 4.3 percent annually in the southern regions (on TAZARA axis). In the
coastal areas, the demand is projected to increase at 3.7 percent annually.
The total white products demand in the country is expected to increase to
973 tcm (a growth of 3.9 percent p.a.). The demand fo': black products is
expected to decline during this period.
2.11      The combined white products demand in the Tanga, Moshi and
Arusha (northern axis up-country plus local demand for Tanga of about 33
tcm) region is projected to increase from 144 tcm in 1988 to 186 tcm in
1997 (an increase of 42 tcm). On the central TRC axis, the demand is
projected to increase from 135 tcm in 1988 to 177 tcm in 1997 (an increase
of 42 tcm). On the southern axis, the demand will increase from about 77
tcm in 1988 to 112 tcm in 1997 (an increase of 25 tcm).
2.12      Transit Trade.  In 1987, the combined transit demand of land-
locked countries linked to the Central TRC (Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and



- 13 -
eastern Zaire) was about 400,000 tons. It is expected to increase to
550,000 tons by 1995 (a growth of 4.4 percent p.a.). Currently, only
17,000 tons moves on the Central TRC system. With the new regional
strategy and investments by the European Communities (EC) in developing the
TRC Central System for transit trade, the transit trade through the TRC
railway system is projected to increase to about 300,000 tons. It is
estimated that about 225,000 tons will be handled by the project facilities
and the balance of 75,000 by road. The Malawi demand is currently at
100,000 tons. It is projected that about 50,000 tons of Malawi trade would
also continue through Tanzania.
2.13      Lipuified Petroleum Gas (LPG).  LPG produced by the refinery is
marketed principally in Dar es Salaam. Because of a shortage of LPG
bottles, filling and bulk transport facilities, about 6,000 tpa of LPG is
burned or flared by the refinery, costing about US$1.5 million p.a. in 1989
prices. Recovering this LPG and would supplement the household sector's
energy needs (both in urban and rural areas), and yield an economic return
on investment in LPG facilities of about 34 percent. In addition,
in'reased LPG supply would replace household energy demand for fuelwood by
about 102,000 cubic meters, which equals to about 2,550 ha of village
woodlots per year (or about 15,300 ha of village woodlots on a sustained
basis). 2/
Pricing
2.14      The prices of petroleum products, both at the refinery gate and
retail outlet levels, are controlled by Government. In fixing these
prices, Government follows the principle of recovering all costs. The base
prices of ex-refinery products reflect: cost of imports, refinery
processing fee, overhead expenses and financing charges related to crude
oil imports. To establish the TPDC transfer price to the marketing
companies, cross subsidies are added to some products. To determine the
wholesale price, the following are added to transfer prices: marketers'
overheads and margins, depot-to-depot costs, mogas freight equalization
charges and taxes. After adding delivery charges and dealers' margins, the
final equalized retail price is set, which is the same at all depots and
regional centers.
2.15      In the past few years, industry margins and other cost
adjustments did not keep pace with inflation, currency exchange movements,
increasel working capital needs and investment requirements. Government
commissioned a petroleum pricing policy study in October 1989 to recommend
2/   This assumes that village woodlot would generate about 40 cubic meters
of fuelwood per year on a six-year rotation cycle. In terms of
environmental sustainability, this would translate to about 35,000
hectares of natural woodlands which would be required to supply
equivalent energy (assuming 59 cubic meters of fuelwood/hectare on a
20-year cycle). In areas where natural woodlands have already
depleted, it will have even higher environmental effect (joint World
Bank/UNDP ESMAP Report No. 086/88, Tanzania Woodfuel/Forestry
Project: December 1988).



- 14 -
an updated pricing policy and mechanism. Pending the completion of this
study, Government made a major review and adjustment in the petroleum
prices in February 199G. Prices were furt'Lher increased in September 1990.
These adjustments have taken into account past changes in international
prices and devaluation of the Tanzanian shilling and brought the prices to
considerably above the import parity level (Annex 2-4). At negotiations,
Government agreed on the principal features of the petroleum product
pricing policy, which would include following (Annex 2-5):
(a) prices will cover the cost of imports and distribution;
(b) margins will be set at levels that will permit financial
viability of the efficiently managed petroleum marketing
companies and retailers. Factors to be taken into account will
include, inter alia, at least maintaining the marketers' marginR
in real terms;
(c) GOT shall encourage efficient nationwide distribution of
petroleum products; and
(d) timely and prompt reviews will be undertaken and recommendations
made by MWEM to GOT regarding price adjustments to reflect
external changes in international oil prices and currency
fluctuations. This will be supplemented by a re-examination of
other costs at least once a year.
Currently, there are no major petroleum pricing issues in need of
attention. After the Petroleum Products Pricing Policy Study is completed,
it will be jointly reviewed by Government and IDA and any changes required,
satisfactory to both, in the products pricing policy and price adjustment
mechanism will be implemented.  It was further agreed that the Borrower
will (i) maintain an appropriate petroleum prizing system; (ii) annually in
September review with IDA the overall level and structure of prices for
petroleum products; and (iii) make appropriate adjustments to prices of
petroleum products as needed in accordance with the principles referred to
in Annex 2-5.



- 15 -
III. BORROWING AND IMPLEHgNTING AGENCIES
Introduction
3.01      The proposed Credit (US$39 million equivalent) will be made to
the Gc:.ernment of Tanzania (GOT) and will be on-lent to the five
established petroletuL marketing companies (Annex 4-6) and the Tanzania
Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) through the Tanzania Investment
Bank (TIB). Each beneficiary will be responsible for the implementation of
their respective project component. Rail tank wagons will be owned by TPDC
and managed by TRC, TAZARA and TPDC, through the establishment and
operation of a Railway Coordination Committee (RCC, para 4.18) fur the
benefit of the industry. Any other facilities will be maintained, managed,
operated and predominantly owned by the established petroleum marketing
companies. US$5 mfllion will be used by Government for institution
building for MWEM, TIB and TPDC, project management and studies (Annex 4-
1). In parallel with the rehabilitation project, the Government of Italy
will provide US$11 million directly to TIPER for refinery rehabilitation.
DANIDA will directly assist TRC with US$2.5 million for the rehabilitation
of Lake Victoria jetties and repairs to the existing petroleum barge.
Supervision of the project, including the TIPER rehabilitation, will be the
responsibility of a Project Supervisory Committee (PSC) that will be
established in MWEM (para 4.19). Chaired by MWEM, the other PSC members
will include TPDC, a representative of the oil companies, TIB, TCR, TAZAMA,
and TIPER, when appropriate. The actual implementation of the project will
be the responsibility of a project implementation team to be set up in the
petroleum division of MWEK.
Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals (MWEM)
3.02      MWEM will undertake overall coordination of the project through
its overall responsibility for the sector and its management through the
PSC. The Commissioner for Energy and Petroleum is responsible for policy
issues vital to the implementation of the project, including the pricing
policy for petroleum products and overall issues such as competition in the
sub-sector (para 1.24). Within MWEM, the petroleum division will be the
key agency in project coordination, and will monitor and supervise all
aspects of the project on a full-time basis through the project
implementation team headed by a project manager. Adequate experienced
staff will be hired to reinforce the staff of this team. The monitoring
and coordinating responsibilities of the petroleum division are outlined in
Chapter IV and Annex 3-5.
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC)
3.03      TPDC was estaDlished by Presidential Order G. N. No. 140 of May
30, 1969, under the Public Corporation Act No. 17, but became active in
1973. The Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (Establishment)
Order, 1969, defined the scope of the corporation to cover all the facets
of the petroleum industry from exploration/production through distribution.
3.04      TPDC is wholly government owned, under MWEM and has the role of
initiating policy and developing the oil and natural gas industry in



- 16 -
Tanzania. TPDC's headquarters are based in Dar es Salaam while its
activities are carried out at several locations in the country. The
original organization structure was geared to reflect the tasks defined in
the Establishment Order. The present structure came into being in 1985.
This structure was designed with the assistance of the Commonwealth Fund
for Technical Cooperation as a result of a request by the Bank in 1982 to
study the structure and financial management of TPDC. TPDC is governed by
a board of directors whose chairman is appointed by the President of
Tanzania. The minister of MWEM appoints the other directors.
3.05      TPDC has been the sole importer of crude oil for the country
since 1977. Crude oil is processed at TIPER refinery in which TPDC and
AGIP Petroli each hold a 50 percent share. The refined products are sold
to the established petroleum marketing companies who in turn distribute
them to consumers. The key functions of TPDC include: (a) developing an
industrial base for the oil and gas industry in Tanzania; (b) exploring
for, developing and producing oil and gas; (c) procuring petroleum
supplies, refining, distribution and construction of storage facilities;
(d) holding exploration and production rights on behalf of the government;
(e) contracting, holding or participating in oil concessions, franchises
and licenses; and (f) managing parastatals or other legal entities
transferred to TPDC. TPDC holds a 50 percent share in BP (T) and AGIP
(Tanzania) and thus indirectly owns about 33 percent of the distribution
system. It also has two subsidiaries, Gas Supply Company and Kilwa Ammonia
Company, Ltd. The organization chart of the company is shown in Annex 3-2.
3.06      TPDC employs a total staff of about 206, all of whom are local.
About 36 employees hold post-graduate degrees. TPDC has the techni^al
skill and know-how in oil and gas exploration, which may eventually be of
use to other countries in the East Africa region. Both staffing and
quality in the managerial, legal and procurement areas need to be
strengthened.
3.07      TPDC's financial position reflects the high turnover and low
capital investment in petroleum importing and distribution. In 1988, its
sales of TSh 15.5 billion were five times the value of its long-term
assets. TPDC's prices are set by Government on a basis that reflects in
aggregate the cost of crude oil imports and refining costs, together with a
profit margin. Provided this pricing system is maintained TPDC shoule
continue to be financially healthy. The gross margin on sales in 1988 was
a comfortable 18 percent, much below that for the previous year. Because
of heavy exchange rate losses the pre-tax net profit was only 2 percent on
sales.
3.08      TPDC's balance sheet is quite strong.  Fixed assets are modest
(in relation to turnover) at TSh 3.4 billion. This includes TSh 1.7
billion in research and development expenditure (mainly oil and gas
exploration) where the value of the undeveloped reserves may not equal the
book value. However the equity base at TSh 5.8 billion is substantially
greater than the research and development amounts. Overall, on the basis
used in the accounts, TPDC's debt to equity ratio at 1 to 4 is sound, and
would remain so if the R & i) expenditure were written off. The current
ratio and stocks are acceptable. Debtors (at two months' sales) are higher



- 17 -
than desirable and steps are being taken to reduce them. However, the
debtor situation cannot be addressed effectively until the established
petroleum marketing companies themselves improve their own receivables
positions.
3.09      Accounts and Audit.  TPDC keeps its accounts up-to-date and in
accordance with Tanzania's Standards of Accounting Procedures. They are
regularly audited by the Tanzania Auditing Corporation in accordance with
Tanzania's Statements of Auditing Standards within nine months after the
end of the financial year and submitted to the Board. Audited accounts for
the last three years were submitted to the project appraisal team and
audited accounts for 1987 and 1988 are in the project files (Annex 3-7).
The quality of the audits is acceptable end no issues of importance were
identified by the auditors.  It wis agreed during negotiations that the
audited accounts, together with auditor's report, would be submitted to IDA
each year no later than nine months after the close of the year.
Petroleum Marketing Companies
3.10      The five established petroleum marketing companies (AGIP, BP(T),
CALTEX, ESSO and TOTAL) are locally incorporated subsidiaries of major
international oil companies. They all have their local headquarters and
bulk terminal facilities at Dar es Salaam. Government has recently
permitted MOBIL, SHELL and Bulk Oil (a local company) to enter petroleum
marketing in Tanzania. At Isaka a rail head depot has been built by Bulk
Oil (which will not participate in the rehabilitation project) for transit
of petroleum products to the neighboring landlocked countries.  Bulk Oil is
also building a bulk terminal in Dar es Salaam which is understood to be
for transit trade. At the bulk terminals the companies receive locally
refined petroleum products from TIPER refinery and imported products
through the oil jetty at the Dar es Salaam harbcr.
3.11      AGIP and BP (T) together hold about two thirds of the market
share, and the balance is shared by tile remaining three established
marketing companies. All the foreign-owsned companies follow the management
and reporting practices mandated by their overseas head offices. Although
the safety and other trading standards should conform with international
practices, due to foreign exchange constraints, the companies have fallen
short of these standards and do not have adequate fire fighting and safety
equipment. Because of local participation in the ownership, AGIP and BP
(T) are governed by boards of directors which have members both from the
overseas head offices and Government/TPDC. However, the management and
operations are under the control of AGIP and BP (T).
3.12      The established petroleum marketing companies will be
responsible for the implemeLcation of the rehabilitation project and take a
predominant role in investments. In implementing the project they will
invest US$35 million on an individual basis and US$33 million for joint
industry facilities. The petroleum marketing companies have well-trained
staff and technical support from their overseas head offices.
3.13      R3tail prices of petroleum products are reviewed each time there
is a change in international petroleum prices or in exchange rates and are



- 18 -
revised as necessary. The petroleum distribution companies' profitability
depends on the allowances in the retail prices for company overheads,
margins and the speed with which these margins are adjusted. These are set
at an equal amount per liter for each product. In the past, there have
been delays in timely adjustment of marketers' margins. However, the
margins have recently been adjusted (February 1990 and September 1990) and
are fully satisfactory for normal operating needs. Separate margins are
provided to equalize transport costs and are meant to reimburse all
transport costs with no surplus or deficit.
3.14      Subject to their need for an enhanced cash flow to meet the
needs of the proposed project, tha overall financial position of each of
the five implementing companies is sufficient to enable it to remain in
business and demonstrate a generally satisfactory financial position.
Turnover ranges above five times fixed asset value (most companies have
some form of revaluation of their assets but in some cases as a note to the
accounts). Gross margins range between 7 to 16 percent and average 14
percent, and net margins 3 percent (ranging between 3 and 6 percent) on
sales. Only one company has debt (both long and short term). Security
required by TIB for loans for the investment program should be possible for
all participating companies without parental guarantee. Accounts
receivable are in need of attention because of poor payment performance by
Government and parastatals, and Government is examining possible solutions.
Current ratios are acceptable. All companies have had difficulty in
repatriating profits although only BP(T) has significant blocked funds.
Because of this difficulty, direct cash input by foreign parent companies
(either of foreign exchange or guarantees) is considered unlikely.
3.15      Accounts and Audits.  Each of the established petroleum
marketing companies, in conforming with the reqdirements of their overseas
head offices, keeps up-to-date accounts that are regularly audited to
appzopriate standards by professio' al accounting firms Jatisfactory to IDA.
The AGIP accounts are audited by Tanzania Audit Corporation, while those of
the other four companies are audited by Coopers and Lybrand. Audited
accounts for 1987 and 1988 are on file (Annex 3-8). No issues ot
importance were identified by the auditors. It was agreed during
negotiations that the audited accounts together with auditor's report
would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of the year(s).



- 19 -
IV.   THE PROJECT
Introductior
4.01      The economic problems and foreign exchange shortages facing
Tanzania over the past decade have adversely affected general supplies of
petroleum in the interior. The overall transport sector is severely run
down because of lack of maintenance and spare parts. The generally poor
road conditions cause heavy strain on the road tanker fleet, while railway
engines, tank wagons and rail loading/unloading facill.ies are inadequate.
Excessive dependence on lona distance road transport is causing recurring
damage to the road surface. The lake and coastal tarkers are mostly out of
operation for want of maintenance and rehabilitation.
4.02      Petroleum supply in the principal agricultural areas is often
low and at times unavailable. The distribution system is unable to deliver
the required volumes of petroleum fuels reliably to productive and
agricultural sectors. Improved availability of petroleum fuels in the main
agricultural areas of the country is a kev ingredient for the success of
the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), and could reduce the pressure on
fuelwood resources in the arid areas. Major factors causing petroleum fuel
shortages have been:
(a) lack of timely availability of foreign exchange to import
adequate fuel supplies;
(b) inadequate facilities for the unloading of imported products and
their bulk transport both by road and railways;
(c)  inadequate and run-down condition of up-country
loading/unloading, storage and distribution facilities; and
(d) shortcomings in pricing and procurement mechanisms.
4.03      Having recognized the importance and the critical role that the
petroleum supply and distribution plays in overall economic development,
the Government of Tanzania (GOT) requested IDA to finance a petroleum
distribution study. The Tanzania Petroleum Distribution Study, which was
financed under the Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project, found
that:
(a) as use of central and northern rail system for petroleum
distribution is difficult, TRC's capacity has been depleted
owing to physical shortages and the run down condition of its
assets, locomotives and wagons in particular, with large
accumulated arrears of maintenance. The existing loading and
unloading systems and facilities for petroleum products are also
not conducive to efficient block train operations;
(b) road transport is expensive, the poor condition of about 80
percent of the main roads has contributed to the shortage of
petroleum products in areas farther from Dar es Salaam,
particularly in the rainy season;



- 20 -
(c) savings could be achieved by using the TALARA system in the
transport of petroleum products;
(d) double handling and transport costs could be reduced if Tanga
were used as a direct import point for petroleum products; and
(e) pumps and storage tanks at retail outlets are old and
dilapidated.
4.04      It also found that in 1986/87, approximately 25 percent of the
petroleum demand in the up-country areas was unmet. The economic impact of
petroleum prod. ct shortages on different sectors of the economy was
estimated by the consultants to be about 5.7 times the cost of the un-
supplied petroleum products (para 4.10).
4.05      The overall rehabilitation of the transport sector is a
Government priority. A road rehabilitation program, the Sixth Highway
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1688-TA), is currently under implementation.
The Railway Restructuring Project (RRP) for TRC, currently in the appraisal
stage, principally would provide additions, replacement and rehabilitation
of physical assets (including locomotives, rolling stock, permanent way and
bridges, telecommunication and signalling support). The locomotives needed
for the movement of petroleum products to the interior of the country w1ould
be provided by the RRP.
4.06      On the TAZARA system (para 4.03(c)), which is comparatively new
(built from 1970 to 1976), the main capacity constraint has been the
inadequacy of locomotive power owing to premature breakdown of the original
Chinese built locomotives. This has been addressed under a USAID project,
currently under execution, which provides for 17 new main-line locomotives
as well as for rehabilitation and maintenance spares, workshop equipment
and technical assistance. The provision of tank wagons and
loading/unloading facilities under the proposed project would complete the
physical resources required for the TAZARA railway system to transport
petroleum efficiently on the southern axis.
Pro]ect Preparation
4.07      Two IDA preparation missions made extensive field visits and met
with GOT, TPDC, established petroleum marketing companies, railways and
harbor authorities in order to confirm the findings of the Petroleum
Product Distribution Study and assist Government to define a priority
program with investment needs which are critical for the success of the
ERP. A Project Working Group (PWG) was established, under MWEM, in
December 1988 to prepare the project. The project scope and costs were
jointly and individually developed by the established petroleum marketing
companies and then put together by the PWG. After thorough technical
review and discussions with the PWG, established petroleum marketing
companies, and two railways, Government determined the project scope that
represents the least-cost priority investment program for removing
petroleum supply and distribution bottlenecks and shortages in Tanzania.
i



- 21 -
4.08      The least-cost priority program includes improvement in the rail
loading/unloading facilities and increased storage capacity for products in
each depot, pooling out resources among the five established petroleum
marketing companies for rehabilitation of the retail outlet network and the
provision of adequate tank wagons on the TAZARA and TRC systems.
Proiect Obiectives
4.09      The proposed project is part of IDA's continued support for the
Government's ERP and dovetails with other transport rehabilitation work
which is currently progressing in Tanzania (paras 4.05 and 4.06). Its main
objectives are:
(a) to reduce the haulage cost of petroleum products by:
(i) replacing long-distance road transport with improved rail
system using dedicated block trains for bulk movement of
petroleum products; and (ii) increased use of sea transport for
supplies to northern Tanzania (Tanga, and from there to toshi
and Arusha);
(b) to improve the availability of petroleum products by modernizing
and rehabilitating the petroleum supply and distribution system;
(c) to impiement and sustain an appropriate petroleum pricing policy
designed to encourage and support private sector investments in
petroleum supply and distribution;
*d) to improve national and transit petroleum trade through Tanzania
to the neighboring landlocked countries by expanded use of rail
system;
(e)  to reduce oil pollution and the threat to the environment from
spillage and leakages due to deteriorated condition of storage
and handling facilities; and
(f) to improve the technical and managerial capacity and capability
of Tanzanian petroleum industry personnel.
Comparison of Alternatives
4.10      There are three major alternatives to the project: (a) do
nothing; (b) improve the rail system through the IDA TRC project now under
appraisal, but not transfer to block traJn concept; and (c) improve the
road system to enable increased movement of bulk petroleum by road. Under
the first alternative, the Economy Recovery Program and the environment
will continue to face adverse effects. The economic loss (in 1989 prices
estimated to be about US$40 million per annum by 1993) due to non-
availability of adequate petrAleum products will be too large for Tanzania
to ignore (para 4.04). Under the second option, though, with the
rehabilitation of TRC system, deliveries through the TRC railway system
will improve to about 30 percent of the demand, provided the petroleum
depots are rehabilitated and the ones which have been closed down are
brought back into operations; however, the lack of adequate sidings,



- 22 -
loading and unloading facilities and storage would mean that much of the
present inefficiency of the rail system would continue to be a problem for
petroleum product distribution, and petroleum tank wagons (both full and
empty) would continue to be lost and spend much of their time in
marshalling yards. Moreover, as there are currently no petroleum depots in
Tanzania along the TAZARA system, these supplies would have no access to
the lower cost from rail transport. Under the third option, besides the
continued constraint on the supplies, the economic cost of road haulage is
about three times the cost by railways; while the movement of heavy tank
trucks on the roads cost an additional US$2 per ton in terms of damage to
the roads. The project has been evaluated against the alternative of
continued road operations, assuming that: (i) the road network will be
adequately improved and rehabilitated to meet the petroleum product
movement needs of the country (Annex 2-6); and (ii) after rehabilitation
TRC, without the project facilities, will be able to deliver about 30
percent of the supplies on the central axis through improved railway
facilities and faster turn around time.
4.11      Currently, deliveries to Tanga, Moshi and Arusha are partly made
by road from Dar es Salaam and partly by a 1,000 ton coastal barge which
plies between Dar and Tanga harbors.  If the northern region's current
demand of about 150 tcm a year is directly imported into Tanga, it would                I
not only reduce the volume handled at Dar es Salaam but would also: (a)
reduce the distances and the time it takes to bring the products to the
northern region; (b) ease the traffic on the already congested roads; and
(c) reduce the freight cost of imported refined products.  The proposed
bulk petroleum terminal at Tanga will be serviced by installing an offshore
unloading system for 20,000 ton tankers for the direct import of petroleum
products. It was agreed at negotiations that Government would immediately
proceed with the preparation of an engineering and feasibility study for
the offshore mooring facility, which will be financed (estimated to cost
about US$175,000) under the Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 1604-TA).
Proposed Petroleum Distribution System
4.12      In Tanzania, railway traffic moves on three axes: (a) in the
south from Dar es Salaam through Irringa and Mbeya districts and further on
to Zambia by the TAZARA railway system; (b) in the north from Tanga to
Arusha through Kilimanjaro and Arusha districts by the TRC northern line;
and (c) in the center from Dar es Salaam to the west (to Kigoma through
Singida and Tabora districts) and north west (to Mwanza through Singida and
Shinyanga districts. For the rehabilitation, modernization and addition of
petroleum supply and distribution facilities, the proposed project will
concentrata on the erection of railway bulk handling facilities on these
three axes. The project proposes to reduce the transport of petroleum
products by road tankers to a maximum of 300 km radius (Chart 2). Long
haul deliveries of products beyond this would be through the use of
dedicated petroleum product block trains. The size of the dedicated train
would vary "'ith the axis, and would depend on both market (e.g. demand for
particular products) and technical factors such as track gradient.



- 23 -
4.13      On the northern axis, trains of 12 wagons are planned, to suit
locomotive capacity, with matching loading facilities at Tanga and
unloading facilities at Moshi and Arusha. The central system is planned
with between 20 and 24 wagon trains leaving the common terminal at Dar es
Salaam, and distributed in either 20 or 12 wagon block trains directed to
Mikumi, Tabora, Dodoma, and Kigoma, and 20 wagons to Isaka and Mwanza,
where facilities for unloading the wagons are being proposed. On the
TAZARA system, 14 wagon trains will carry petroleum products from Dar es
Salaam to iiakambako and Mbeya.  Transit to Uganda via Mwanza, to Rwanda via
Isaka, and to eastern Zaire and Burundi via Kigoma is also envisaged.
There will be about 50,000 ton pa of petroleum movement to Malawi.
4.14      The development of each axis will be independent, and depend on
the existing and required facilities. On the TAZARA system in the south,
no improvement in the railway facility is needed to delivar additional
freight. It only requires block train unloading facilities at Makambako
and Mbeya, and modifications to loading facilities in Dar es Salaam. On
the northern axis, besides tanker unloading facilities at Tanga, block
train loading facilities and a new depot are needed. Facilities at Moshi
and Arusha need to be re-aligned and rehabilitated. Currently, the central
axis is unable to handle additional traffic and therefore development of
facilities for unloading of block trains on this axis will be phased in
parallel with the Bank's railway restructuring project for TRC. TRC's
locomotive needs would be met by the rehabilitation and acquisition program
to be coordinated under the Railway Restructuring Project (the locomotives
provided under the RRP are not expected to be on a dedicated basis). Track
renewal and telecommunication needs have been prioritized for
implementation. Support for institutional strengthening, improvement of
operational efficiency, manpower development and training is being
provided. The needs of new tank wagons, taking into account the
rehabilitation and overhaul program and improved operational objectives,
have been assessed, and these would be met under the project through
parallel grant financing by EC.
Prolect Description
4.15      The main features of the proposed project, summarized from the
detailed description in Annex 4-1, are as follows:
A.   Rehabilitation and construction of depots and loading/unloading
facilities, which includes:
(i)     Rehabilitation of existing depots at Dar es Salaam, Arusha,
Bukoba, Dodoma, Kigoma, Mikumi, Moshi, Mtwara, Musoma,
Mwanza, Pemba, Tabora, Tanga and Zanzibar. The
rehabilitation will include rail alignment and lengthening
of sidings, installation of multi-product loading and
unloading systems, facilities for road tankers, provision
of bulk meters, fire fighting and safety equipment,
pollution control, office facilities and general equipment
rehabilitation; and



- 24 -
(ii)     construction of new depots at Isaka, Makambako, Mbeya, and
Mpanda complete with rail loading/unloading facilities,
storage tankage, road tankers loading rack, provision of
bulk meters, fire fighting and safety equipment, pollution
control, office facilities and general equipment.
B.   Construction of marine bulk petroleum terminal at Tanga
consisting of an offshore 20,000 DWT tanker unloading system,
twin sub-sea pipelines, on-shore white product storage tanks,
rail and road loading facilities, rail sidings, fire fighting,
safety and pollution control equipment.
C.   Rehabilitation of Lake Victoria jetties at Bukoba, Musoma and
Mwanza with suitable safety equipment and rehabilitation of the
existing self-propelled 400 ton petroleum barge in Lake
Victoria.
D.   Purchase of 39 rail tank wagons for the TAZARA system, 42 rail
tank wagons for the TRC system, and six LPG tank wagons (two for
TAZARA and four for TRC).
E.   Rehabilitation of the retail petroleum distribution and
marketing network including about 350 retail outlets, and
purchase of road tank trucks for petroleum products.
F.   Provision of six LPG filling plants, two at Dar es Salaam and
one each at Dodoma, Isaka, Makamb3ko and Zanzibar; two storage
tanks; 60 bulk supply tanks; 30,000 LPG bottles; 40,000 pressure
regulators; 20,000 stoves; and eight road tank trucks for LPG
marketing.
G.   Technical assistance, studies, training, project management
together with related office equipment to strengthen MWEM, TIB,
and TPDC.
4.16      The facilities rehabilitated and constructed under the project
(except railway tank wagons) will be mainly owned and operated by the
petroleum industry. A hospitality system (para 2.06) or similar
arrangements will apply to all loading/unloading, filling and storage
assets being financed by the project to ensure fuller use of the
investments and to facilitate competition. The proposed charging
arrangements for inter-company hospitality, as agreed among the
participating oil companies, are shown in Annex 4-5. At negotiations, it
was agreed that the Borrower shall ensure that by December 31, 1991,
arrangements satisfactory to IDA will be implemented for inter-company
hospitality, covering all lirensed petroleum marketing companies operating
in Tanzania, fot the use of ail loading/unloading, filling and storage
assets financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.



- 25 -
Prolect Management and Implementation
4.17      At negotiations, it was agreed that Government will continue to
use private sector oil marketing companies for the distribution of
petroleum products throughout Tanzania. The national oil company, TPDC,
will be responsible, as now, for procurement of crude oil and white
products. Project implementation will be the responsibility of MWEM, five
established marketing companies and TPDC, and TIPER for the Italian
financed refinery rehabilitation of TIPER refinery. The storage, supply
and distribution components will be implemented by the petroleum marketing
companies. Joint facilities to be constructed under the project will be
owned on a joint venture basis by the companies, in proportion to local
market share, and TPDC. TPDC and the oil companies have decided and the
Government has agreed that TPDC should have a minority (20 percent) non-
operational share in the five new storage depots. These depots are being
financed from the Credit, loans and grants made to the Government. In
addition to giving useful information for purposes such as setting prices,
this shareholding will ensure:
(a) the strategic dimension as three of these depots are part of the
network for supplying neighboring landlocked countries; and
(b) competition through providing a reliable mechanism for new
companies to have access to storage and thus be able to enter
the market. As a means of opening up this access, TPDC, will at
the appropriate time, transfer part of its share to the new
entrants on satisfactory terms and conditions.
The new joint facilities will be operated by the established marketing
companies through joint arrangements.
4.18      The 87 new railway tank wagons w1ll be financed by EC and owned
by TPDC.  TPDC will sign contracts with TRC and TAZARA.  Principles to be
included in the contracts between TPDC, and TAZARA and TRC for the use,
operation and maintenance and management of tank wagons and applicable
tariff structures have been agreed with IDA; execution of contracts
between TPDC and railway companies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, on the maintenance, operations and management of rail tank wagons
owned by TPDC shall be a condition of effectiveness. A Railway
Coordination Committee (RCC) shall be established with membership from
petroleum marketing companies, TRC, MWEM and TPDC by December 31, 1991
(Annex 3-6). To ensure adequate railway transport capacity for
distribution of petroleum to all geographic areas in the interior of the
country, RCC will prepare regular bulk train movement schedules and
allocate tank wagons in accordance with these schedules. A railway
transport expert will be employed to assist RCC and placed in TPDC by
December 31, 1991. The expert will act as the technical secretary to RCC
and be responsible for the day-to-day coordination of bulk train movement.
Over the life of the project, TPDC will train and develop in-house
expertise for this function. Sufficient funds are provided to the
MWEH/TPDC through technical assistance for the recruitment of railway
transport expert.



- 26 -
4.19      Energy conservation, pollution control and rehabilitation of the
refinery and pipeline facilities will be implemented by the TIPER refinery
in parallel with the project. Overall supervision of the project
(including TIPER rehabilitation) would be vested in the Project Supervision
Committee (PSC) to be established by June 30, 1991 in MWEM. It would be
chaired by MWEM and would include representatives from TPDC, petroleum
marketing companies and the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB). The PSC would
meet as required but not less than once in a month to plan and coordinate
actions, timetables and procedures to be followed in implementing the
project. MWEM, thrcugh a project implementation team in its petroleum
division, will coordinate the activities concerning appointment of
consultants and contractors, procurement, project programming and
budgeting. The project implementation team would oversee the day-to-day
operations of the project (Annex 3-5). Experienced staff and a project
manager will be provided to support the staff of the project implementation
team. Appointment of an experienced Project Manager would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness. The cost of the Project Manager would be financed
from the proceeds of proposed IDA Credit and he would be hired on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The Project Manager would prepare
quarterly and yearly reports on all aspects of the project imlementation
(including performance against environmental and safety standards) and
submit them to IDA. In addition, each project implementation entity will
appoint experienced staff and project managers. MWEM will arrange for
annual audit to be undertaken by the Auditor General of the project
accounts for those items under its control, including statements of
expenditure and the special accounts. The audited accounts will be
submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the fiscal year i.e., by
March 31 of each year. Audits of special accounts, project accounts, TIB
accounts, TPDC accounts and accounts of the petroleum marketing companies
participating in the project would be submitted to IDA within nine months
after the close of the respective fiscal years, until the project
completion report has been submitted. GOT will by September of each year,
review with IDA implementation of the petroleum rehabilitation project,
including TIPER refinery.
4.20      The established petroleum marketing companies would utilize
their existing technical and management expertise for the basic design and
preparation of construction cost estimates. If and when needed, additional
consultancy services would be retained for detailed engineering,
preparation of project specifications and tender documents, bid evaluation,
legal review of contracts, and construction supervision, in accordance with
IDA guidelines.
4.21      The technical assistance component would be the responsibility
of MWEM. It was agreed at negotiations that GOT will: (a) provide or
cause to be provided the services of a legal expert on international
contracts, to be used by MWEM and TPDC in reviewing their international
contracts with consultants and contractors in the petroleum sector; (b) b
September each year review with IDA the detailed training program for the
project; and (c) by December 31, 1991, furnish to IDA for its review and
comments a plan of action for the studies to be commissioned under the
project including the terms of reference for the gas pipeline engineering



- 27 -
and design study, and promRtll thereafter commence implementation of such
studies takina IDA's comments into account (Annex 4-1).
Project Cost stimates
4.22      Project costs have been estimated at mid-1989 prices.  All taxes
and duties to be levied on project goods and services are expected to be
deferred by the Government until project facilities are fully operative.
Duties and taxes where applicable will be borne by the beneficiaries and
paid in local currency. The total project cost, including contingency but
excluding taxes, is estimated at US$104 million equivalent. This includes
US$30 million in local costs.
4.23      The foreign exchange cost would be equivalent to US$74 million,
or about 71 percent of the total project cost. Physical contingency is
estimated separately for each project component and for each segment within
each component. The average is about 15.6 percent of the base foreign
exchange cost (excluding transport equipment, Lake Victoria barge and
project management). Price contingencies have been included on the
international component of equipment, materials and other supplies
(excluding the transport and T.A. components) using foreign MUV factors
based on the weighted average of Tanzania's trading partners, adjusted to
financial year and is assumed at 4.7 percent p.a., equivalent to an average
of 14.4 percent for the foreign exchange cost. Total contingencies for the
foreign exchange component are estimated at 30 percent. Contingencies for
the local costs were estimated on civil works and local materials at an
average of 28.8 percent (this excludes contingencies on taxes and on the
technical assistance part of the project). Total price contingency for
local currency costs (assuming an inflation factor of 10 percent) is
estimated at 14.2 percent in dollar terms (using the concept of purchasing
power parity) and physical contingency is provided at 15.5 percent of the
base cost (excluding transport, barge and T.A.). A summary of project cost
estimates is shown in Table 3 (details in Annex 4-2).



- 28 -
Table 3: Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Project Components              Local             Foreign             Total
Storage Depots                   18.6              29.4               48.0
Rail Loading/unloading
Facilities                  3.4                8.8               12.2
Tanker Receiving Facilities
at Tanga                    1.2                4.3                5.5
Victoria
Lake Jetty Facilities        0.2               1.5                1.7
Rail Tank wagons                  -                  6.0               6.0
LPG Tank Trucks                                     1.6                1.6
Victoria Lake Barge Repairs       -                  1.0               1.0
LPG Filling & Marketing
Facilities                  0.6                5.0                5.6
Spare Parts, Transport Equipment
& Rehab. of Retail Network 3.6                11.4               15.0
Technical Assistance &
Project Management          2.0                5.0                7.0
Total Project Costs *            2m                Z& III13
*     (a) Local taxes and duties are not included.  Where duties and taxes
are applicable, they will be borne by the beneficiaries and paid in
local currency. As a means of reducing the overall local currency
requirement, MWEM would recommend to Government to defer taxes and
duties on imported equipment and materials for the project during the
implementation of the project including the possibility of staggering
the repayment of sales tax over a suitable period. (b) All
beneficiaries are operating entities and interest during construction
will be financed from operating income and will not be capitalized.
(c) Contingencies are included at approximately 30 percent for both
local costs and foreign costs. This includes physical contingencies
averaging about 16 percent (reflecting the uncertainty in
rehabilitation projects) and price contingencies of about 14 percent
on average. (d) Rehabilitation of the TIPER refinery, which will be
undertaken in parallel with Italian grant financing, is not included
in total project costs.



- 29 -
Financing Plan
4.24      Total financing required by the project is estimated at US$103.6
million equivalent. IDA financing of SDR 33.7 million (US$44 million
equivalent) will help finance the rehabilitation of existing facilities,
purchase of spare parts and road transport equipment, conetruction of the
new depot at Mpanda and technical assistance. The OPEC Fund (US$6.6
million equivalent) will co-finance with IDA the construction of the new
bulk petroleur terminal and offshore mooring facility at Tanga. The
execution of the agreement between the Government and the OPEC Fund, and
the provision of detailed engineering and construction costs for the Tanga
bulk oil terminal, are conditions of disbursement for the IDA funds for
this component. The Netherlands Government (US$6.5 million equivalent)
will provide co-financing for the new LPG equipment. In parallel, EIB
(US$8.9 million equivalent) and EC (US$6 million equivalent) are expected
to finance the construction of new railhead depots at Mbeya, Makambako and
Isaka, and the purchase of railway tank wagons. It was agreed at the
negotiations that by December 31, 1991, GOT will conclude agreements with
EC and EIB for the financing of rail tank wagons and new depot facilities,
failing which, GOT will establish, to the satisfaction of IDA, that
adequate funds for the project are available from other sources on
satisfactory terms and conditions. DANIDA (US$2.5 million equivalent) will
provide financing for repairs to self-propelled barge and jetties in Lake
Victoria di. ectly to TRC Mtarine. Italian Government grant financing (US$11
million equ;valent) will cover the refinery rehabilitation and modification
in parallel with the proposed project. Government/TPDC (US$2 million
equivalent) and the five established petroleum marketing companies (US$28
million equivalent) will finance local costs. As a means of reducing the
overall local currency requirement, MWEM will recommend to Government that
taxes and duties on imported equipment and materials for the project be
deferred during the implementation of the projecL including the possibility
of staggering the repayment of sales tax over suitable period. In addition
to the oil companies' own resources, Government will endeavor to make
adequate resources available through TIB for the local borrowing needs of
the project. One possible source may be a levy on petroleum products.
Except for the investment related to purchase of railway tank wagons and
construction of new depots (EC and EIB financing), the timing of the
parallel or co-financing is not critical for the implementation of the
project.
4.25      The proposed IDA Credit of US$44 million equivalent would meet
59 percent of the foreign exchange component and 42 percent of the total
financing required. The proposed Credit would be made to the Government
for the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals, and on-lent to the
established petroleum marketing companies and TPDC (through TIB).



- 30 -
Table 4: Proiect Financing Plan
I of
Source                          Local    Foreign    Total        Total
USS$ Million------>
IDA                                 -        44.0     44.0        42.5
DANIDA                              -         2.5       2.5        2 X
EIB *                               -         8.9       8.9        8.6
EC *                                -         6.0       6.0        5.8
Netherlands                         -         6.5       6.5        6.3
OPEC Fund                           -         6.1       6.1        5.8
TPDC/Government                   2.0                   2.0        1.9
Oil Companies                    27.6                  27.6       26.6
TOTAL                         i2 &                JILj        I12L2
*    By December 31, 1991, GOT will conclude agreements with EC and
EIB for the financing of rail tank wagons and new depot
facilities, failing which, the borrower shall establish, to the
satisfaction of the Association, that adequate funds for the
project are available to the borrower from other sources on
satisfactory terms and conditions.
4.26      On-lending arrangements.  The Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB)
will act as the financial administrator of both the foreign exchange and
local funds channelled to the beneficiaries for the project (about US$69
million in foreign exchange and US$28 million in local currency). TIB was
established in 1970 in order to make available long and medium-term finance
for economic development, to provide technical assistance to promote
industrial development, and to administer special funds placed at its
disposal. TIB has benefitted from a number of previous Bank/IDA loans and
credits but is currently in a difficult financial condition because of
financial difficulties of its major customers. At present, TIB cannot be
regarded as creditworthy for direct IDA lending. Its problems and those of
other major financing institutions were examined by a Presidential
Commission. Based on the commission's 1990 report, Government is
initiating a major restructuring of the banking system. This project will
use TIB only as the administrator of Government loan funds; GOT, through
MWEM, has assessed project viability and funding needs, and will accept the
credit risk. In addition, on-lending by TIB of the funds to the project
beneficiaries would be subject to prior clearance by the petroleum division
in MWEM of invoices and, as appropriate, contracts. TIB's role as
administrator will be to on-lend the funds, which will be kept separate
from TIB's own funds, receive necessary security on behalf of Government,
calculate repayments of principal and interest, and ensure that these are
received. In addition, TIB will obtain any information from the oil
companies requested by IDA or GOT concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of the oil companies. TIB will be supported in its
role as administrator of on-lent funds by the project implementation team
in MWEH. To further strengthen TIB and assist it in administering the
credit funds, the project will finance the purchase of needed office
equipment, and training for TIB staff.   TIB's accounts are well kept and
its accounting systems are satisfactory. Audited accounts will be



- 31 -
forwarded to IDA no later than nine months after the end of the fiscal
year. TIB's audited accounts for 1987-88 and unaudited accounts for 1988-
89 are in the project files (Annex 3-9).
4.27        For its services as loan administrator, TIB will receive a 1
percent initial commission and an annual fee of 1 percent of funds on-lent.
On-lending of local currency will be at prevailing local rates. On-lending
of foreign exchange by TIB to the companies for this project will be at an
interest rate of at least 9.5 percent with TPDC and oil companies bearing
the foreign exchange risk. The cost of money to the retail marketing
companies is essentially equal to terms on which their parent companies
could borrow in the major capital markets. The parent conpanies are not
prepared to do this because of past investment/dividend restraints in
Tanzania. On-lending will be for a maximum maturity of 15 years with a
grace period of five years. As loan paymerts by companies are dependent on
volumes and marketers' margins, Government will agree to consider deferral
of relevant payments if for any reason they have not been able to maintain
volumes or margins. The amount of subloans financed by the Credit that
each oil company is expected to receive is listed in Annex 4-6. In
addition each oil company will have a share of the $6,600,000 allocated for
the construction of the facilities jointly owned by TPDC and the oil
companies. If any of the oil companies is unable to use its share of funds
allocated for the jointly owned facilities, PSC may reallocate such amount
to any other licensed petroleum marketing company for the purposes of the
jointly owned facilities. PSC, in consultation with IDA will review
unallocated amounts from time to time, and reallocating as needed.  At
negotiations, agreement was reached on the draft subsidiary agreement
between the Borrower and TIB. A condition of effectiveness is that
Government will sign a subsidiary agreement with TIB and that TIB will sign
subsidiary financing agreements with at least two oil companies. Before
TIB can disburse project funds to an oil company, the oil company must have
a satisfactory financing plan in place for those investments to be financed
under the project.
Project Schedule and Disbursement Profile
4.28      Considering that the major components of the project will be
implemented by the affiliates of international oil companies, which have
wide experience of implementiL.g similar investments, project implementation
is expected to be fast. However, the components that are dependent on the
implementation of the TRC restructuring project would follow the
implementation profile for railway projects. It is expected that the
completion of the project will take about 72 months from Credit
effectiveness. The implementation schedule for the various components of
the proposed project is shown in Annex 4-3. As the Bank Group previously
has not financed similar projects either in Tanzania or in the region, the
proposed disburserment profile is based on the assessment of realistic
implementation schedule for individual project components plus the
estimated phasing of the railway rehabilitation project on the central TRC
system. The training and technical assistance components are expected to
stretch over six years. The disbursement schedule for IDA financing is
summarized in Table 5.



- 32 -
Table 5: IDA Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
< ---------US$  millionl-----i-___---------->
FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FYo    FY97
Annual                       1.3    3.2    9.0   10.5   11.0    7.8       1.2
Cumulative                   1.3    4.5   13.5   24.0   35.0   42.8    44.0
Procurement
Table 6: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Component                      ICB         LIB          Other'      Total
Storage Tanks Materials         5.3                                   5.3
(5.3)                                 (5.3)
Existing Depot Facilities       6.0                       6.9        12.0
(6.0)                     (6.0)9     (12.0)
Existing Other Facilities                                 2.4         2.4
(2.4)3      (2.4)
Spares and Consumables                     7.32           2.0         9.3
(7.3)          (2.0)8       9.3
New Joint Depots                3.1        2.5           12.9        18.5
(3.1)                     (0.5)       (3.6)
Transport Vehicles              3.3                                   3.3
(3.3)                                 (3.3)              -
LPG Marketing (New)                                       5.0         5.0               U
Tanga Tanker Facility           4.3                                   4.3
(3.1)                                 (3.1)
Victoria Lake Barge Repairs                               1.0          1.0
Victoria Lake Jetties                                     1.9          1.9
Rail Tank Wagons                                          6.0         6.0
T. A. & Project Management                                5.0         5.0w
(5.0)       (5.0)
Total 4                 22.0                                  zLL
(20.8)      (7.3)         !15.9)      (44.0)
*     Amounts financed by the IDA Credit are in parenthesis
Procurement for the parallel financed components would be in
accordance with the guidelines of the financing institutions.
2     Items are intended for equipment installed at about 350 retail
outlets, operated by five established petroleum marketing
companies. While each company uses its o-n logo or brand name,
per their established corporate procurement guidelines, they
rely on more than one vendor for price competitiveness.
s     Proprietary spare parts and components for existing equipment.
Including contingencies.
Consultancy Guidelines.



- 33 -
4.29      The procurement of various equipment and materials to be
financed by IDA that are not proprietary items or need not match existing
equipment for purposes of standardizatior. would be through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IVA guidelines. To the extent
possible, contracts for goods would be grouped in bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more. Items or groups of items
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$7.3 million, may be procured on
conditions satisfactory to IDA through limited international bidding (LIB)
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
Proprietary items or spare parts for existing equipment which cannot be
obtained from alternative suppliers would be purchased by single source
procurement subject to a review of the items and bidding procedures
including the names of short listed firms.
4.30      In respect of the IDA-financed components, all tender documents
for goods worth US$250,000 or more would be submitted through the Project
Manager to IDA for review prior to distribution to the bidders. All
contracts worth US$250,000 or more would be submitted through the Project
Manager to IDA for review prior to signature. In this way, more than 80
percent of the total IDA-financed procurement would be subjected to prior
review. Government expects to apply similar arrangements for the
components financed by other donors.
4.31      The consultants, where needed, will be selected according to the
Guidelines for the use of Consultants by Wor!.d Bank borrowers. The
procurement arrangements to be used for various categories of equipment,
materials and services to be financed by IDA are itemized in parentheses in
Table 6.
Allocation' and Disbursement of IDA Credit
4.32      The allocation of the proposed IDA Credit is summarized in Table
7. All civil works would be financed from local financing. Special
Accounts (one each for MWEW' and TIB) would be established in the Bank of
Tanzania and operated on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The
authorized allocations for these accounts are US$150,000 for MWEM and
US$1.2 million for TIB. The accounts would be replenished periodically in
accordance with applicable IDA procedures. Disbursements would be made
against full supporting documents, except tor payments against all
contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, and payments for individual
training programs which would be reimbursed on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOE). Supporting documents associated with SOE claims would
be retained in a central location by the relevant implementing agency,
suitably cross referenced to the withdrawal application, and made available
on request for review by visiting supervision missions. As part of the
annual audit for each implementing agency, the independent auditors would
give an opinion with respect to amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs and
on the operation of the Special Accounts.



- 34 -
Table 7s IDA Credit Allocation
Amount        X to be Financed
(USS million)
Equipment and Materials
Rehabilitation of facilities  3/      18.8       100? of foreign expend.
Tanga petroleum terminal  4/           4.5       1001 of foreign expend.
Spare parts, consumables                 7.3       10OZ of foreign expend.
Studies and project management           3.8       1001 of foreign expend.
Office equipment                         0.7       MWEMs 1002 of expend.
TIB: 100I of foreign,
80? of local expend.
Training                                 0.5       1002 of expenditures
Unallocated                              8.4
Total                                 44.0
(Exchange rate used is SDR 1 = US$0.7659)
The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997. The closing date
is December 31, 1997.
Environmental and Safety Aspects
4.33      An important element of the project is to minimize and contain
damage to the environment, which is currently threatened by the
deteriorated condition of the transport network. The run down condition of
the supply network and retail system is causing petroleum spills, posing
environmental hazards, while the shortages of household cooking fuels are
having negative impact on the forests. The dilapidated condition of the
pipeline at the refinery manifold threatens to pollute the sea. Oil
separation from the waste water leaving the refinery needs improvement to
meet normal industry standards. With the improved facilities proposed
under the project (and parallel rehabilitation of the refinery), long
distance movement of oil in bulk by rail instead of road, improved
housekeeping at oil depots and rehabilitation of retail network, the risk
to environment will be minimized and brought to normal industry standards.
Through the regular monitoring of the implementation of the refinery
rehabilitation project, the oil content and biological oxygen demand in
refinery waste water: will be maintained at levels that conform to the
applicable standards set by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (but not more than 10 ppm and 30 mg per liter respectively), and
these data will be reported in the quarterly reports to be submitted to
IDA. To improve the safety of the petroleum operations in the country,
31 Rehabilitation of all facilities (excluding Tanga Petroleum Terminal and
including new depot at Hpanda)
4/ Tanga offshore facilities and new termimal.



- 35 -
adequate fire fighting facilities at all bulk locations will be provided
through the project. Improved availability of LPG would reduce the demand
for fuelwood.   Availability of additional LPG would reduce the
deforestation pressures further.
Project Supervision
4.34      A plan covering the schedule of key IDA supervision inputs,
skill mix required and approximate dates is shown in Annex 4-7. The
borrower's contribution to supervision would includet (a) MWEH staff and
ensure tLat project beneficiaries submit timely audit reports; (b) project
coordination will be the responsibility of MWEM, and a project manager in
MWEM will have daily project implementation responsibility; (c) MWEM will
chair a Project Supervisory Committee that will meet not less than once a
month, to plan and coordinate actions, timetable and procedures for project
implementation; (d) TPDC will chair a railway coordination committee to
ensure adequate railway transport capacity for the distribution of
petroleum; (e) the Petroleum Division of MWEM will be responsible for
coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision missions, and for providing
information required by missions. During field visits missions will be
accompanied by Petroleum Division Staff; and (f) mission briefings on
arrival. and wrap-up meetings, will normally be chaired by the Commissioner
for Energy and Petroleum.
Project Monitoring
4.35      Various indicators for monitoring and project implementation
were discussed with the PWG and agreed with the entities (Annex 6-1).
These would include the requirement for quarterly and yearly progress
reports on all aspects of the project implementation from the Project
Manager to IDA. Within six months of project completion, the agencies
concerned would prepare a project completion repart on the basis of an
outline to be agreed with IDA.



- 36 -
V. JUSTIPIC&TION. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Prolect Justification
5.01      The physical facilities of the petroleum supply and distribution
network in Tanzania have deteriorated considerably after nearly one and one
half decades of neglect due to lack of foreign exchange and consequent
inability of petroleum marketing companies to maintain their
infrastructure. Funds for routine maintenance and rehabilitation are now
available through the Open General License system, but these are inadequate
for a major rehabilitation program. The proposed project will make an
important contribution to the Economy Recovery Program (ERP) in that it is
the least-cost option for making petroleum products available throughout
the country. It will do this by financing the priority investment
requirements for the rehabilitation of petroleum sector. It would
substantially correct the deteriorated condition of the distribution
network, thus reducing distribution losses. The project would ensure that,
through the use of the railway systems, petroleum products are moved to the
agricultural areas with the fewest delays and at the lowest costs. The
project would also involve, on a more sustained basis, the private oil
companies in the sector, and in so doing, help to improve their efficiency.
It would also reduce the threat to the environment and provide adequate
technical support, training and institutional strengthening so that in the
future the beneficiaries operate efficiently and the past maintenance
neglects are not repeated.
Bconamic Rate of Return
5.02      The economic rate of return, relating the economic project
capital and operating costs to the savings and revenue expected from it,
was calculated based on the following assumptions:
(a) the project facilities, after the rehabilitation of TRC system,
will realize incremental benefit from 70 percent of the up-
country petroleum demand on the central and northern rail axes;
(b) for the justification of the project, economic benefits accruing
from supplying only the domestic sales are included in the
benefits stream. Additional benefits for transit of oil to
landlocked countries have not been included;
(c) there will be a net incremental saving of US$0.051 per ton
kilometer against the alternative of continuing supplies through
the road system; and
(d) incremental benefit from reduction in damage to roads from a
reduction in the movement of heavy petroleum trucks would be
US$2/ton.
Exchange rate was shadow priced at TSh 200 (i.e., a 54 percent premium
over the exchange rate prevailing at the time of project appraisal), and
the rate used in calculating project costs has been adjusted by purchasing
power parity, which assumes that the exchange rate would move in line with



- 37 -
the difference between the domestic inflation and international inflation
rates. The estimated economic rates of return are shown in Table 8 and
cost and benefit streams in Annex 5-1.
Table 8: Economic Rate of Retumn
(Z)
Rehabilitation Proiect   Tanga Terminal
Base Case                             26.4                     15.4
+20% Investment                       19.7                     12.3
-10Z Volumes                         22.3                      13.6
+Road Damage Effect                   29.2                     17.4
Switching Values  12Z OCC            62Z of projected volume throughput.
Distribution Network Rehabilitation Economies
5.03      The rehabilitation of the distribution network, costing about
US$67 million, would require improvement of the rail loading/unloading
facilities and repairing/building storage tanks and other facilities at
various bulk and railhead depots. The facilities would be built on three
corridors: (a) in the south on the TAZARA railway system with depots at
Mbeya and Makambako; (b) on the northern TRC system connecting Moshi and
Arusha to either Tanga or Dar es Salaam; and (c) on the central system,                 r
connecting Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika.
5.04      The major benefits from the rehabilitation would be that long
haul movement of the petroleum products would be done using the railway
system which would reduce the economic cost of transport by US$0.051 per
ton km (in 1989 constant prices). It would also facilitate the trar:it of
about 275,000 tons of petroleum products p.a. through Tanzania to
neighboring landlocked countries, thus reducing transport costs by an
additional US$2.5 million per annum in foreign exchange. The economic
calculations and assumptions are detailed in Annex 5-1. The project
economic rate of return is estimated at 26 percent. Improved transit trade
would result in additional benefits to both Tanzania and its neighboring
countries. The project economics are tested against a 20 percent increase
in investment cost and 10 percent decrease in volumes or 10 percent
increase in operational cost. In all cases the economic return is above
the opportunity cost of capital. If the economic benefit of reduced damage
to roads (due to movement of heavy traffic) is taken into account
(estimated at US$2 per ton), the economic return would improve to 29
percent. Switching value for volume throughput at 12 percent opportunity
cost of capital is estimated at 62 percent.
Tanga Bulk Oil Depot
5.05      At a total cost of US$17 million the base ERR for this component
is estimated at 15.4 percent. This component is quite sensitive to
investment costs and with a 20 percent increase in the investment, ERR
would drop to 12.3 percent. With a 10 percent decrease in throughput
volumes, the return would decrease to 13.6 percent. If the effect of the
road damage is taken into account, the economic rate of return would



- 38 -
improve to 17.4 percent. As a basic infrastructure investment, these ERR
are reasonable.
Proiect Risks
5.06      Since the project preparation is well advanced, and the
Governmental experienced petroleum marketing companies have been involved
in all aspects of project design and preparation, no major problems are
anticipated in implementation. The biggest risk is that TRC continues to
under-perform. The project implementation on the central TRC system would,
therefore, be phased to coincide with the implementation of the TRC
restructuring project. It was agreed at the negotiations that the Borrower
shall by September of each year, review with the Association the progress
in TRC's modernization program in relation to the implementation of the
petroleum sector rehabilitation work. Government recognizes the importance
of both projects for the success of ERP and appears committed to their
timely implementation. All the project entities are operating concerns
with reasonable economic and financial viability. A second potentially
serious risk is inadequate cooperation and coordination among the
implementing agencies. To guard against this risk, a project supervisory
committee of all the implementing agencies will be set up. The project has
provided adequate financing for recruitment of qualified personnel to
manage the project. In addition funds for training of local staff are
adequately provided in the project. The project economics are still
satisfactory even with a 38 percent drop in volumes.
5.07      TIB has had difficulties in the past and it will be important to
monitor its performance closely.  Within the limited range of financial
institutions in Tanzania, TIB is of an appropriate size and has the most
relevant experience. Project funds to TIB will be channelled through a
special account established for the benefit of the project beneficiaries
only. The approval of project fund allocations will be by the project
implementation team in the petroleum division of the MWEK under the
arrangements described in Annex 3-5. Technical assistance and training
will be financed under the project and foreign exchange funds will be
provided to enable TIB to improvc the standard of its office systems and
equipment and its logistical arrangements. With the above measures the
risk of poor performance by TIB is expected to be small.
i



- 39 -
VI. AGREEMDITS REACHED
6.01      During negotiations agreements were reached:
(a) on the principal features of the petroleum product pricing
policy and that the Government will: (i) maintain an appropriate
petroleum pricing system; (ii) annually in September review with
IDA the overall level and structure of prices for petroleum
products; and (iii) make appropriate adjustments to pr'.ces of
petroleum products as needed in accordance with the principles
referred in Annex 2-5 (para 2.15 and Annex 2-5);
(b) that MWEM would recommend to Government to defer taxes and
duties on imported equipment and materials for the project
during the implementation of the project including the
possibility of staggering the repayment of sales tax over
suitable period (para 4.24);
(c) that by December 31, 1991, arrangements satisfactory to the
Association shall be implemented for inter-company hospitality,
covering all licensed petroleum marketing companies operating in
Tanzania, for the use of all loading/unloading, filling and
storage assets financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (para
4.16);
(d) that the Borrower would arrange for consultants to study and
recommend improvements in the system of purchasing crude oil,
the financing arrangements (currently linked to coffee exports),
and the related coffee marketing arrangements (para 1.28);
(e)  that Borrower shall by September of each year, review with the
Association the implementation of the project which shall
include, inter alia: (i) implementation of the petroleum
rehabilitation program including rehabilitation of the TIPER
refinery (para 4.19), (ii) the detailed training program for the
project (para 4.21 and Annex 4-1), and (iii) progress in TRC's
modernization program in relation to the implementatioa of the
petroleum sector rehabilitation work (para 5.06);
(f) that a Railway Coordination Committee (RCC) will be established
with membership from established petroleum marketing companies,
TRC, MWEH and a railway transport expert to P&sist RCC will be
employed by December 31, 1991 (para 4.18). The Borrower shall
provide or cause to be provided the services of a legal expert
on international contracts, to be used by MWEM and TPDC in
reviewing their international contracts with consultants and
contractors in the petroleum sector (para 4.21);
(g) that the Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1991, furnish to
the Association for its review and comments a plan of action for
the studies to be commissioned under the project including the
terms of reference for the gas pipeline engineering and design
study, and (ii) promptly thereafter commence implementation of



- 40 -
such studies taking the Association's comments into account
(para 4.21 and Annex 4-1);
(h) the Project Manager would prepare quarterly and yearly reports
on all aspects of the project implementation (including
performance against environmental and safety standards) and
submit them to IDA (para 4.19);
(i) audits of special accounts, project accounts, TIB accounts, TPDC
accounts and accounts of the petroleum marketing companies'
participating in the project would be submitted to IDA within
nine months after the close of the year (para 4.19); and
(j)  by December 31, 1991, GOT will concluc) agreements
with EC and EIB for the financing of .ail tank wagons
and new depot facilities, or failing that, will ensure
that adequate funds for the project are available from
other sources on satisfactory terms and conditions
(para 4.24).
6.02      Conditions for the effectiveness of the proposed Credit are:
(a)  the signing of a subsidiary agreement between Government and
TIB, and the signing by TIB of subsidiary financing agreements
with at least two oil companies (para 4.27);
(b)  execution of contracts between TPDC and TCR and Tazama, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, on the use, maintenance,
operations and management of railway tank wagons owned by TPDC
(4.18); and
(c) appointment of an experienced Project Manager (4.19).
6.03      The Conditions of Disbursement are:  (a) on disbursements of
funds for the Tanga bulk oil terminal, that the agreement between GOT and
the OPEC Fund has been executed, and that detailed engineering and
construction costs, acceptable to IDA, have been provided for work under
this component (para 4.24); and (b) on disbursements of funds by TIB to the
oil companies, that a satisfactory financing plan for the investments to be
financed under the project by each oil company is in place prior to
respective disbursement (para 4.27).



TANZAN IA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Energy Supply Demand Balance - 1987
(000 toe)
Ref leed     TOtal      Hydro                                       Total
CrGdo Oil   Predw4c  Pftroless      Power   Electric  Fel Wood   carcoaol R_meablec          Coal      Toal
~~~~~~~~~--  -        -------      --                                         -   -------
Supplees
Prelmsta                                       o0.08     20t.85             10,601.00             10,601.00       l.6   10,0.98
461.04    124.04      M.5.                                                     0.0      15.84     m.82
",~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                     11,6                                                     0.00                 11.25)
stea   ap"                W.A                   .44                                                    1.eo 0.11            201.-a
are" supp11e            411.U        A.       101.68     267.8        0.0   100,M820        0.08   ,om.00        11.U   1167.
sblsleg                (43.51)    40.51         0.oo                                                   0.v0                  0.08
Cheuseel Pee    " lea0.60                                                     (15.68)    2m.u          o.oo e.0o
Pause Pleats                       (80.74)    (89.74)   (167.85)     18.08                            0.0                 (O.OO)
._lz L"_   .      (110 (.8)    (07.51)             (601.0)              (1,024.8
I 50 ^ l_ e.e e.a                                                   (30.40(                             . as                           >
MA       lee               (0.60)    1.         11.          0.40      60.44   0,51.60      15.58   9.71488         17.18  106,07.6
157.41     1511.42                15.60                             0.0      II."      169.96
8101.10    83.16                                                    0.08                M341
111d                               UO6.60      .130.t                21.02   0,117.71     2U."    01870.15                0,51.67
£pkltu.                            ",40        4,40                   1.22 1:818.08                  810.08                8"4.
Cemuss                                         0.08                  21.8                              0.08                 21.86
ftb_                                 .n 3.                            .0       108.02                18.08                  160.8
les. Cese                008       71.6       70.6        0.eo       6.0    0u.146        152.58   0,8.8         17.58  10601.6
seemes viols"sq of E.ar~ ead Ilasee
0*



TANZAN IA
PETROLEUH SECTOR RIABAILITATION PROJECT
Petroleum  Distributlon SRate
A)  Ulj                                           S I_ff_^ LM  S.I3*Ilq                            c se im ma1as
g *w as"_                                                                       **
?ASUIA                                  CuStir""""a
g       It                                      6*d&.
t mI&md       5l               i",  C||,                                         ,              _ 
plaguet ' C   _  _. "                                                                                         _as" 
t1w  liae Co       foe- s imd             11100   iV                            _       t      -  4      l
I   |    I  t               I          l_~~~~~~~gp*  at& &*"  *z-l       
I  _  *q&_t  I         _ISl     "Of
II                              BeS tuupe .-  ||I1|E1  
" Nome. *
am& M   1 oill ,tre
Ii ,  I c tm t   to
_                 1amars  Sta
I S                                                                   .°1
obirvies Co.                   swoo~~luthn tompany15mg~et
Source: Tanzania Petroleum ;^.ed!t Dietributio  Study
February 1988
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slao _ _  _.   ,



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Present Petroleum Product Allocation System
1.        During the times of shortages, the allocation systems works in
four steps:
(a)  TPDC allocates products to five marketins companies on two
levels - national and railroad.
(b)  Marketing companies allocate products to their regional
depots.
[c)  Transport system constraints modify these priorities.
(d)  Marketing companies allocate products to customers within
regions when there is serious shortage.
Each step is described below.
Step 1: TPDC Allocates Products to Marketing Companies
(a) National Market Share.  The first aspect of this step is the
monthly computation of 'market share.' Market share is
defined as the percent of each product sold over the previous
four quarters.
The quantity to be allocated is determined from the refinery
monthly pumpover schedule and TPDC forecast purchases.
(b)  Rail Tank Car Allocation.  The second aspect of TPDC
allocation is to assign availablo rail tank cars to the
marketing companies on a daily basis. This starts with a
listing of available wagons by type and capacity which is
provided by TRC the previous day.
Wagons are then allocated among marketing companies, taking
into account:
(i)    the monthly market share;
(ii)    seasonal priorities related to agriculture;
(iii)    the differences in market share for rail corridors
(particularly the central line);
(iv)    priority regions identified by the Prime Minister's
office; and



_ 45 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 3
(v)    allocation request telephoned, telexed, or given in
person by major users in locations served by the
railroad.
Step 25 Allocation to Regional Depots and Wholesale Clients
(a) Normal Distribution by Product and Region. Once the oil
arrives in marketing company tanks, in Dar-es-Salaam, it is
available for distribution to marketing company customers or
to depots in other regions or Zanzibar. The marketing
companies will sell on a percentage basis to all their
customers, or a first-come, first-served basis, if there is no
transport constraivn.
(b) Rail Car Daily Distribution by Product. In addition, the
marketing companies allocate products in rail tank wagons on a
daily 'iasis to their regional depots, and to coastal vessels
for distribution to Zanzibar, Pemba, Tanga and Mtwara. This
allocation is done on the basis of the customer demand in each
area, the stock position of each company's regional depots,
and the availability of truck alternatives.
If sufficient rail tank cars are available during the month,
this results in a normal distribution to customers of each
marketi :B company.
Step 3: Transport System Constraints Modify Distribution
(a) Rail Car Despatching. As rail cars are available in each area
(North and Central TRC lines are operated almost
independently), the regions connected by rail to Dar es
Salaam and Tanga are served, but only in proportion to
availability. This has been as low as 502 of demand. This
shortage has meant that the Dar es Salaam region has received
more than its share, and inland regions, particularly the lake
regions receive less.
A second distortion also occurs where IDO and FO are favored
over white products.
(b) Increased Quantities Delivered Inland by Truck. Despite the
cost differential of truck delivery and rail delivery,  there
has been an increase in dealers and large users who either
contract with truckers or purchase their own trucks for
transporting petroleum products to their locations inland,
rather than rely on the rail distribution system.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 3 of 3
This tendency has compensated to some extent for the rail tank
wagon deficit described earlier. In several cases, the
regional. authorities responsible for settling prices at the
dealer's level, have added to the allowable price an amount
designed to compensate for trucking charges.
Step 4: Allocation of Products to Customers
(a) Once products are delivered to regional depots (or arrive in
the region by tank truck), the distribution to retail outlets
and large users is carried out by the marketing companies. In
those areas where there are regular shortages the allocations
are under the guidance of the Regional Allocation Committees.
These committees are appointed by regional authorities and
generally include oil company representatives. However, some
cases have been cited of committees not composed of people
with knowledge of oil distribution, and with only partial
knowledge of priorities.
Where there is a serious shortage (e.g. Mwanza) retail outlets
have sometimes received as little as ten percent of their
normal supplies for their formal allocation. In some cases
the allocation system has created situations where fuel was
available in retail outlet tanks, but not available to retail
customers, as it was allocated to other users. This implies
that the users did not have an immediate need and the
allocation was not the most efficient.
Regional allocation is made only for locations where there are
persistent shortages (e.g. Hwanza). Other locations have
eliminated allocations and have gone back to a first-come,
first-served basis at each retail station.
Source: Tanzania Petrolem Product Distribution Study,
February 19O



TANZAIA
mm
PETRLLM SECTS KNASIUTATION PROCT
U1fE PRDUT  SecA PROECTIONS
_______nf
(Ia '000 LIer.)
<--            -- A ct~                  l-- --  -)              0-_________4Gowth
Rbi.ounjs I Nind                19 4        1965        1090        1907        1900           3446
Nerter Ceetl ()
esbI                          609.835      71,221      72,500      67,689     111,363         12.71
C.nr.l mc Syet
Dodo                           22,356      23,226      22,926      20,961      23,709          1.65
eak.                            0,449      10,903      11,609       6,044      18,363         29.9S
Kil                             4,296       4,601       6,641       6,570       6,769         19.0X
34,004      3,649       4,986       a,370       2,031       -15.60
38,404      47,422      62,427      58,964      67,680        14M61
Mbosao                         18,067      13,849      12,161      12,028      13,726          1.21
Tabor*l                                                                         10,670         7.6%
mikml~~~~~~~~~~~__                 ______                              -------     -------___  ____
Contral Total      91,864     103,230     108,920     102,739      134,907        10.11
Soothern System (TAZARA)
MbWakbako                      30,172      43,675      51,001      80,709      88,210          6.1%
Ibeys                          17,706      26a,46      25,799      25,862      38,011         21.511
Soutbbrn Total      47,676      10,620      77,400      56,101      76,921         12.63
volmeo Movement by Rol l- ys
1RC system     161,049     174,450     191,2 0     190,5l7     246,742         11.8!
TAZARA Syet'em     47,676      70,620      77,400      56,101      76,621         12.61
.  . .l __     _  _     _   _ ____
Total Rtilway. r    0,927      244,970     26,600      246,589      523,65         11.
NO.4.11 IMoveomet
D SblNo                       245,811     246,136    268,910      29,708       84,414          9.AX
u*tSar                         18,657      15,686      17,236      21,020        21709        12.65
22,79       24,521      26,600      "6,w69      82,242         9.1%
V berP                         1 1,740     15,022      16,198      8,435        19,466         1.01
Total NIe-Re II    300,09      301,615     824,019     371,676     407,860          7.9S
Tanzanli Total     609,706      56,46      562,706     616,115     731,418          9.41
0-
N
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~   N
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~t 
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ONITE PRODUCTS SALES PROJECTIONS
(In '000 Liters)
<_______________------------------------Projctions-- -  ------------ ----------     --------    G row
R"lo o/RaI I Heed            1909       1900       1091       1m         1995        1094       1996       1909       1997        69-07
NIObN Coal (KC)
Moehi                      118,00     115,000    11,000    120,000    125,000    180,000    134,810    189,796    144,970         8.38
Central IRC Systm
Dodmo"                      24,a0o     26,000     26,000      27.000     29,000     80,000     81.110     82,261     88,485        4.23
teat                        16,000     10,000     16,000     17,000     16,000      19,000     19.708     20,482     21,166        4.42
Rig.                        9,000     10.000      11,000     11,000     12,000     18J000     18,401     18,960     14,497        0.12
YpOCdI                       $,859      8702       8,646      ,990       4,146      4,000      4,146      4,801      4,401        2.6X
Nsoon                        ",000     09,000     e0,000     62,000    06,000       70,000     72,90     76,270     70,061        8.0
Tabora                      18000      13,500     14,600      16,000     10,000     17,000     17,602     1,201      18,966        4.61
ikmi                        211,000    11,500      12,000     18,000     14,000     16.000     16,666     16,181     16,727        5.43
- -   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- - -                       --   -- -- ----
Centra! Total    185,500    186,70    148,846    146,996    162,149    163,000    174,218    100,802    167,840         4.3S
=ther Systm (TAZARA)
Matembebo                   40,000     41,000     42,000      48,000     46,000     60,000     51,360     68,768     55,750        4.2X
Wby&                        89,000     40,000     41,000     42,000      45,000     60,000     51,e60     65,768    65,75          4.6%
Soutbern Total    70,000     61,00      68,000     865.O0      90,000    100,000    108,700    107,587    111,510        4.43
Volumes Moveont by Railways
TK System    246,690    268,702    261,846    263,990    277,148    296,000    809,026    a20,460    882,817         8.9e
TAZARA Sytm      79,000     01,000     68,000     65,000      90,000    100,000    108,700    107,657    111,510        4.43
Total Ra lways    824,a00    884,702    544,840    165,W0    807.146    896,000    412,726    427,997    44868           4.03
-~~~           ~~       -b1                 fl          -- 
No.4.11 IMovemmet
b'S,l5t                   685,000    84865    556,465    872,650        67,019    401,726    416,991    482,687    449,264        8.73
Mtwara                      22,000     22,002     28,567     24,406      26,410     26,862     27,864     20,425     29,605        8.73
Tng.                        88,000     84,028     85,360     80,729      80,124     89,578     41,077     42,686     44,260        8.73
Z'bsr/Pe.b                  20,000     20,020     21,424     22,260     28,106      28,064     24,n5      26,641     26,62         8.73
Totel ee-Ri 1    410,000    422,710    48,19     456,824    478,665    491         510,847    519,740    649,670        8.71
Teamsanl Total    784,500    757,412    38,542    610.820    640,615    669,064    928,078    957,787    998708          J.OX
.  I



TANANIA
PETROLJM  SECTOR REHAILITATION PROJECT
Petroleum Pricing Structure
(Tebi llag/Ilter)
Cumesy  Inter-
lPDC  Margins   Depot OColono   Bondod                                         Current
l1aO(~   Cross  1elliNg     and  Freight Freight Wholoselo  Salos   Excias D-llvery   Dealer  Ret il
Product     Price  Subeidy    Price Owerboad      Fund     Fund    Price      Tax    Duty  Charges   Margin   Prico
LPG         49.29    (1.17)   48.12     0.74      6.21             60.07     4.93                                66.00
MS Pron     49.29    17.75    67.06     0.74      6.21     7.10    06.16    19.72     2.98      0.87     2.28   112.00
MS Reg      49.29    10.10    06.40     0.74      6.21     7.16    84.60    19.72     0.89      0.67     2.22   108.00                    -
Jet F.el    40.29     0.44    49.78     0.74      6.21             01.08     2.40     0.86                       65.00
Ierogom    49.29   (17.76)   $1.56      0.74      6.21             48.60     2.44      1.54     0.67     1.63   60.00
age Oil     49.29    (8.06)  -46.d      0.74      6.21             67.80                        0.67     1.53   00.00
100         49.20    (9.15)   40.06     0.74      6.21             62.00                                         52.00
Fue, Oil    22.0      0.15    28.51     0.74      5.21             40.46     2.24     0.96                       43.66
Price effective Febrnary 1990.
Os
o -
_ 1.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals
Statement on Petroleum Product Pricing Policy
1.        The Government affirms that the current petroleum pricing policy
is based on recovery of all costs and is expected to be maintained during
the period of implementation of the IDA supported Petroleum Sector
Rehabilitation Project. Some further changes may be required once it has
been possible to review the consultants' report on petroleum product
pricing policy, currently being prepared for Government. The principal
features of the pricing policy will be:
(a) that the prices will cover the cost of imports and distribution;
(b) margins will be set at a level that will permit financial
viability of the efficiently managed oil marketing companies and
retailers, factors to be taken into account will include, inter
alia at least maintaining the marketers margins in real terms;
(c) efficient nationwide distribution of petroleum products will be
encouraged; and
(d) timely and prompt reviews and recommLndations by MWEM to
Government of price adjustments to reflect external changes in
international oil price movements and currency fluctuations.
This will be supplemented by a re-examination of all costs at
least once a year.
2.        In addition, during the implementation of the IDA supported
Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project, Government will facilitate, on
appropriate conditions, the availability of local funds for oil companies
to meet their local currency investment requirements.
3.        It is recognized that companies have a stake in the project.
They will also contribute towards the investment cost of the project from
their retained earnings, and any other resources, as appropriate.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Railways and Road Transport Costs
1.        As yet no information is available form the study which is being
prepared by the TRC Restructuring Project. The following calculations are
based on the data prepared by The Great Lakes Corridor Study (November
1989) and makes use of the information used for calculating comparative
economic costs for Kenya.
Railways Cost
2.   The calculations are based on the following assumptions:
1.   Locomotive capital costs US$1.4 millior, 25 year life, 10Z
interest rate and annual utilization of 75,000 km;
2.   Fuel consumption at 6 liter/km at US$0.21/liter;
3.   locomotive maintenance at 51 of capital cost per annum;
4.   crew cost  US$4,000/crew, 40,000 km per annum;
5.   tank wagon capital cost at US$55,000 - 70,000, 30 year economic
life;
6.   tank wagon maintenance cost 2Z of capital cost per annum, annual
utilization 30,000 km;
7.   loco terminal cost US$1,020, wagon terminal costs assumed within
annual utilization.
Based on these assumptions, the railway economic cost of operations is
estimated at US$1.6 to 1.9 per ton km. Assume oti.er operational costs of
US¢1.5 per ton km (a total cost of US03.4 ton km).
Road Transport Cost
1         The Great Lakes Study calculates, based on data from a variety
of sources, the tank truck operation cost of about US¢7.2 per ton km. When
adjusted for Tanzania operational conditions, and data received from the
haulage operating companies, the average cost is estimated at US08.5 ton
km.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Proiect Manager
Background
1.        Availability of petroleum fuels at the least cost and in the
main agricultural areas of the country is an essential requirement for the
success of the Government's Economic Recovery Program. Government policy
for the petroleum sector has involved centralized procurement of petroleum
under the Government administrative controls. Due to shortage of foreign
exchange, the infrastructure for storage, distribution and marketing has
been neglected for many years and very few new facilities were created,
causing severe fuel shortages, especially in the agricultural areas in the
outlying regions. Major factors causing petroleum fuel shortages have
been:
(a) inadequate facilities for the unloading of imported petroleum
products and bulk transporting both by road and railways;
(b) inadequate and run down condition of loading/unloading, storage
and distribution facilities; and
(c) shortcomings in petroleum product pricing mechanism.
2.       The Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals (MWEM) intends to
rectify these inadequacies with the financial assistance of the
International Development Association and other bilateral donors for the
domestic distribution of petroleum products and also facilitate transit
trade to the neighboring landlocked countries such as Uganda, Burundi,
Eastern Zaire, Zambia and Malawi.
3.       To assist MWEM implement the project in an efficient manner and
continued monitoring of the progress of the project during the
implementation, MWEM intends to appoint an experienced Project Manager.
Sufficient funds are provided in the proposed Credit from IDA for the
recruiting the Project Manager for a period of four years.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 3
Qualifications and Experience
4.       The candidate should be an engineering graduate with a minimum of
15 years of actual experience in the planning, execution and maintenance of
facilities used for storage, handling, transport (by road, rail, barges and
tankers), and marketing of petroleum products including LPG.  Past
experience in project management with reputable international oil
companies/engineering companies should include preparation of tender
documents, tender evaluations, contract negotiations, project scheduling,
project cost control, and preparation of progress reports for management
information. The candidate should be able to lead MWEM's project
Tmplementation team and train them in their various disciplines while
carrying out the job. The quality of the project management and task of
observing the procurement guidelines, controlling project cost and time
schedule would be the responsibility of the Project Manager.
Objectives and Scope of Work
5.       The main objectives of hiring the Project Manager would be to
provide leadership to the MWEM's project implementation team; to take
overall responsibility to control project quality, cost and tine schedule;
and to -in MWEM's personnel in project management.  The scope of work
would inciude, but would not be limited to:
(a) organizing an efficient project implementation team with the
help of personnel provided by MWEM and prepare job description
for each individual and the team as a whole;
(b) preparing project control procedures to monitor the physical
and financial progress of the project;
(c) preparing and providing regular quarterly and annual progress
reports for MWEM and IDA and assisting IDA missions in the
supervision of the project;
(d) reviewing job specifications, bid documents, bid evaluation
reports, etc. prepared by the oil companies, TPDC, contractors,
consultants, etc. and submitting recommendations for MWEM/IDA
approvals;



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 3
(e) supervising the progress of all contract works by visiting
project sites and having discussions with oil companies,
railways, harbor authorities, contractors, etc. and making
timely recommendations to MWEM/IDA for corrective actions,
advance planning, etc. when and where needed;
(f) studying all IDA guidelines for project monitoring and
reporting, procurement of goods and services; preparation of
disbursement application and guide the project implementation
team in adhering to these guidelines; and
(g) training MWEH's personnel while working with the project
implementation team.
Schedule of Work
6.       The project implementation and completion is expected to take
about four years from the time IDA approves the project. The Project
Manager is expected to provide his services full time during this period
and assist MWEM's project implementation team.  He will b.- stationed in Dar
es Salaam but would visit the project sites, on a regular basis, to review
the progress of the implementation. As per the present program, the
Project Manager is expected to be available in Dar-es-Salaam by December
1990.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHA ILITATION PROJECT
Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
Organization Chart
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
EXECUTIVE COWMITTEE Of THE BOARD
GING DOTOR
II DEPUTY MANAGING DIRECTOR I
DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR                DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR
OF                Or                       OF                OF
MARKETING         CORPORATE              EXPLORATION &        FINANCE
AND            SEVICES                 PRODUCTION          Banking
INVESTMENTS       Purchasing.              Ezploration      Management
Marketing,         Stores                 Production           and
Operations,      Personnel &              Engineering       Operation
Data           Training,                Materials           A/C
Collection        Clearing  &               Maagement        Main A/C
Forwarding,                              Projects A/C
Transportation                              Salaries
Adm.
Legal Matters
and Insurance
INTERNL                              GASCO/KILAMCO
AUDIT UNIT                                 UNIT
AudLting



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Water, Energy, and Minerals
Organization Chart
MINISTER
DEPUTY MILNISTER
PRINCIPAL SLCRETARYC
MANPOWER
MINING       DEVELOPMENT      PLANNING       ACONIGENERGYWAE



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Commissioner of Enerny and Petroleum (CEP)
Organization Chart
COMMISSIONE
OF ENERGY
AND  PETROLEUM
BROLROLEUKTLU                   POWER               EmURY SYSTKK
4 ENGINEERSl
INFORMATION AND
I  DATA BASE              1     REDPU      I
UPSTREAM           DOWNSTREAM             COAL        ]
3 ENCINES                       2 ENGINS               5 ENGINEERS
6 GEOLOGISTS                    1 STATISTICIAN          1 FORESTER
1 ECONOMIST                     3                      1 ECONOMIST
10 
. 1- T     V   I       ITTn"it



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
TANZANIA SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Responsibilities of the Proiect Implementation Team in the MWEM
The petroleum division within the Ministry of Water, Energy and
Minerals would supervise and monitor the implementation of the project
through a project implementation team. In its performance the project
implementation team will be assisted by the appointment of a Project
Manager.
Responsibilities
The implementation team will be responsible for monitoring and
(as necessary) supervising the physical and overall management aspects of
project administration. There will be a separate Railway Coordinating
Committee for scheduling and plannin3 railway operations, and the Tanzania
Ir.vestment Bank (TIB) will be responsible for arranging the foreign
exchange for the fores parts of the project, with the petroleum division's
responsibility for payments ending after it has certified the contracts and
invoices for payment. Specific tasks under the control of the
implementation team would include:
(a) overseeing all arrangements for the project;
(b) monitoring progress on all aspects excluding payments (but
including railway rehabilitation, rail tanks, barges, etc.);
(c)  examining/recommending on all significant project
modifications;
(d) reviewing invitations to bid, contract documents, evaluations
and awards for all contracts requiring IDA pre-approval, and
cases where the implementing agencies seek specific guidance;
(e) certifying contracts, invoices etc. prior to them being passed
to TIB, to ensure that they are part of the project;
(f) monitoring payments from special accounts to ensure timely
replenishments;
(g) on site inspection of physical works;
(h) monitoring compliance with IDA loan agreements, and acting as
channel for information from implementing agencies; and
(i) preparation of quarterly and annual reports to IDA.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Railways Coordination Committee (RCC)
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        A Railway Coordination Committee (RCC) wil  be established                    a
within the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) to be
responsible for coordinating the movement of petroleum products through
Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) and Tanzania Zambia Railways Authority
(TAZARA). the RCC will consit of representatives appointed by the
Minlstry of Water Energy, and hinerals (MWEM), TPDC, TRC and petroleum
product distribution companies operating in Tanzania. TDPC will provide a
Secretariat for the RCC and the TPDC member will chair the RCC.
2.        The RCC Secretariat, with inputs from all members of RCC, will
be responsible for maintaining up to date statistics and records, including
but not limited tot
(a) current inventory levels of each petroleum product at each
depot;
(b) availability of petroleum products in Tanzania from the TIPER
refinery and direct imports;
(c) historical and projected requirements for each petroleum
product for each region;
(d) current location and operational status of all petroleum tank
wagons;
(s) mvAvement of petroleum products and tank wagons to each dept
for each month; and
(f) a maintenance history for each tank/wagon owned by TPDC.
3.        Other responsibilittes of the RCC, among other things, will
include the following:
(a) by the 15th day of each month, based on a preliminary program
to be prepared and submitted to it by the Secretariat, the RCC
will agree to a petroleum product distribution program for the
scheduling of all full trains for that month. including
loading dates, quality and type of products to be transported,
destination and expected date of arrival at each depot;



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 2
(b)  decide priorities in the program for deliveries of petroleum
products to meet domestic requirements and determine the rail
transport capacity available in each month for international
transit traffic;
(c) maintain up-to-date records for all movements of products by
railways including information such as number of tank wagons
used, destinations covered, kilometers travelled, departure
and arrival dates of trains at each location, etc.
(d) verify the tariff charges invoiced by the railways with
respect to tariff rates, number of wagons used, kilometers
covered, tariff charges calculations, etc.
(e) calculate the tank wagon leasing charges payable to TDPC in
each month;
(f) maintain up-to-date records of tariff charges paid to the
railways and tank wagons lease charges paid to TPDC;
(g) maintain detailed records of accidents, damages, maintenance
and modifications made on each tank wagon owned by TPDC;
(h) maintain close liaison among all the parties involved in the
movement of petroleum products by railways in Tanzania; and
;i) any other matters included in the RCC scope of work from tlm0
to time by the joint decision of the RCC members.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM REHABILITATION PROJECT
TPDC Financial  tatements, 1988 and 1987
(T Shillings, millions)
Profit and Loss Account
1988               19S7
Turnover                                    15,579             11,487
Cost of sales                               13,169              8,472
Gross profit                                 2,410              3,015
Operating Expenses                           2,172              1,458
Operating profit                               238              1.557
Non-operating income                           495                383
Profit before taxation                         733                956
Dividend proposed                               75                150
Balance Sheet
Fixed assets                                   424                 21
Other non-current                            2,985              2,710
Current assets:   Stocks        1,759                1,230
Debtors      2,985                2,710
Bank Cash    3,444        7,9Ss   4,568      8,253
Current
liabilities:    Creditors    3,855                 4,077
Taxation       365                  983
Dividends      325        4,545      190     5,250
Net current assets                           3,454              3.003
Total assets                                 6,863              5,734
Long-term loans                              1,075              1,009
Share capital                                2,208              2,208
Reserves                                     3,580              2,517
Total financing                              6,863



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Oil Companies Financial Statements, 1988
(T Shillings millions)
Profit and Loss Accounts
AGIP       BP   CALTEX    ESSO   TOTAL
Turnover                       5680      9099     2744    2537    1756
Cost of sales                  4765      7928     2552    2241    1559
Gross Profit                    915      1171      192      296     197
Operating expenses              573       594      107      147     151
Operating profit                342       577       85      149      46
Non-operating income             14        27       33        1      50
Profit before taxation          356       604      118      150      96
Dividend proposed                17        83       25       10       -
Balance Sheets
Fixed assets                   1222       411      160       59     327
Current assets:
Stocks                    753      970       248     120       97
Debtors                  1014       949      117     267      184
Short term investors               205
Bank and cash            -264      637       209     139       19
1503     2761       574     527     300
Current liabilities:
Creditors                1244      1442      284     287      208
Taxation                  111       423       65     100       57
Dividends                 101       397       81       38      33
Current portion
long-term debt      131
1587     2262       430     425     298
Net current assets              -84       499      144      102       2
Total assets                   1138       910      304      161     329
Long term loans                 628         -         -       -       -
Share capital                    90        13       13        6       7
Reserves                        420       897      291      155     322
Total financing                1138       910      304      161     329



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tanzania Investment Bank - Financial Statements, FY89 and FY88
(T Shillings million)
As of June 30,                             1989*                   1988
Profit and Loss Account
Interest and Fees                           2,228                 1,092
Exchange rate adjustments                   1,357                 1.994
Other income                                   46                    18
Total Income                                3,631                 3,104
Cost of funds                                 319                   205
Expenses                                      101                    69
Provision for bad debts                     3.359                 2.727
Total Costs                                 3.779                 3,001
Profit before taxation                       -148                   103
Taxation                                        -                    11
Profit after taxation                        -148                    92
Balance sheet                               1.989                 1,988
Fixed assets                                  205                   161
Current assets:  Cash                  289                199
Current maturities 3777                1917
Accrued income       217                639
Prepayments          170  4,453         124     2,879
Current liabilities: Creditors         601                410
Taxation          -4                11'
Current portion
long-term debt 1348  1.945         681      1,102
Net current assets                          2.508                 1,777
Portfolio investments                 3354               3064
Less provision for bad debts          3071    283        1833     1,231
Total assets                                2.996                 3.169
Long term loans                             1,675                 1,826
Share capital                               1,034                 1,166
Reserves                                      287                   177
2,996                 3,169
* Unaudited.
1/ Managed funds are not included in the above figures.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 7
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT FACILITMES AND SCOPE
A. Rehabilitation/Construction of Depots and Loading/Unloading Facilities
1.        Dar es Salaam  Existing storage facilities of the retail
petroleum product marketing companies will be modernized and enlarged to
the extent necessary. Existing rail loading facilities of
BP (T)/ESSO/CALTEX for the TRC system will be realigned tc load a full
train of 24 wagons with multi-product loading points. Similarly the
existing rail loading facilities of TOTAL/AGIP will also be realigned to
load 24 TRC wagons simultaneously. For TAZARA rail system, the existing
facilities of Agip and BP (T) will be converted to load full block trains
of 14 tank wagons and will be used by all the oil companies.
Southern Axis (TAZA-RA)
2.        Mbeya and Makambako  At both locations new terminals with 2 tcm
storage tanks, 14 wagon rail unloading facilities with multi-product
system, pumps, bulk measurement meters, truck loading gantry, fire fighting
and pollution control facilities. rail line extension and office facilities
are required. Details of storage tanks as proposed for each location are
as follows:
Prodtucts                           Cubic Meters
Diesel                                    900
Kerosene                                  300
Gasoline  (Premium)                       200
Gasoline (Regular)                        200
IDO                                       200
Fuel Oil                                  200
Total                                   2,000
Northern Axis (TRC)
3.        Moshi and Arusha    The existing depots and facilities, which
are owned by the established marketing companies operating in the country,
will be modernized and enlarged to the extent necessary. Rail unloading
facilities at Moshi, in particular, will be realigned to unload a full
train of 12 wagons. TOTAL and Caltex will take hospitality from other
companies at Moshi. At Arusha TOTAL and Caltex would modernize their
existing facilities and provide hospitality to the rest of the industry.
Because of gradient and site constraints, the rail unloading facility at
Arusha will be limited to six tank wagons.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 7
Central Axis (TRC)
4.        Tabora, Kigoma and Mikumi  The existing depots of the retail
petroleum product marketing companies at these locations will be modernized
with additional tankage, realignment of rail unloading facilities for 12
wagons at Tabora and Mikumi and 22 wagons at Kigoma with multi-product
unloading system, bulk meters, and repairs to some of the existing
facilities. At Tabora BP (T) and ESSO will jointly provide hospitality to
the rest of the industry. At Kigoma BP (T), TOTAL and ESSO will provide
hospitality to the rest of the industry. At Mikumi ESSO, AGIP and CALTEX
will provide hospitality to the rest of the industry.
5.        Dodoma   At Dodoma, consequent to the Town Council's safety
concerns regarding the existing depot, CALTEX will relocate its depot and
will include facilities to receive 12 tank wagons with multi-product
loading system at the new location. New environmentally sound facilities
for metering, fire fighting, pollution control, office etc. will be
provided. The facilities will include LPG storage and an LPG bottle
filling plant.  The rest of the industry will receive hospitality from
CALTEX.  The following storage tankage would be needed:
Products                            Cubic Meters
Diesel                                    500
Kerosene                                  300
Gasoline  (Premium)                       300
Gasoline (Regular)                        150
IDO                                       150
Fuel Oil                                  150
Total                                   1,550
6.        Mpanda and Isaka.  At both locations the facilities will be
jointly owned by the established marketing companies. New terminals will
be erected with storage tanks (one tcm at Mpanda and 3.4 tcm at Isaka),
product loading pumps, bulk measurement meters, truck loading gantry, fire
fighting and pollution control facilities, rail line extension and office
facilities. At Isaka 24 wagon rail unloading facilities with multi-product
unloading system and at Mpanla 6 wagon unloading facility with multi-
product system will be provided. At Isaka a new LPG bottle filling plant
will also be provided. At these locations the following storage facilities
are proposed.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 7
Products                            Cubic Meters
Mpanda          Isaka
Diesel                           400                1,000
Kerosene                         300                   300
Jet Fuel                                         600
Gasoline (Premium)               150                   900
Gasoline (Regular)               150                   300
IDO                                                   300
Total                            1.000               3,400
Deliveries by Tankers
7.        Zanzibar  Existing depots of BP (T) and CALTEX will be
modernized with additional tankage. bulk measurement meters, pumps, road
loading facilities etc., and a new LPG bottling and bulk unloading
facilities by AGIP will be provided. BP (T) will also rehabilitate the
existing tanker unloading facilities. TOTAL and ESSO will receive
hospitality from these companies.
S.        Pemba  ESSO will modernize the existing tanker unloading
facilities and provide hospitality, if necessary, to the industry.
9.        Mtwara  BP (T) will modernize its existing facilities and
provide hospitality to the rest of the industry.
B. Tanga Bulk Oil Terminal and Deep Water Jetty Rehabilitation
10.       Tanpa  It is proposed to erect an offshore unloading facility
through installation of offshore 'dolphins' for mooring together with twin
sub-sea pipelines, to facilitate bulk import of petroleum products for the
Northern Zone (Tanga, Hoshi and Arusha). A new petroleum terminal to
partly unload bulk marine tankers will be constructed with storage tanks,
twin product pipeline from the offshore dolphins, 12 wagon rail loading
gantry, product loading pumps, bulk measurement meters, truck loading
facilities, fire fighting and pollution control facilities, and office
facilities. There may be a need to reinforce the rail line which passes
through the city. Storage tanks required to partly unload 25,000 DWT
tankers on a two port discharge system and for raillroad loading are
estimated at 15 tcm and for rail/road loading facilities at 2.4 tcm.
Storage tanks and facilities at the existing Tanga Depot would then be used
exclusively for handling of black products (fuel oil and IDO).
11.       Tanga bulk terminal would have the following storage facilities
to partly unload 25,000 DWT tankers on a two port discharge system and for
loading 12 wagon unit trains and tank trucks for the Tanga market.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 4 of 7
Tanker Unloading    Rail/Road Loading
Products         Cubic Meters         Cubic Meters
Diesel               10.000                 900
Kerosene              2,500                 600
Gasoline              1,500                 600
Jet Fuel              1,000                 300
Total                lS,OOO               2,400
C. Lake Victoria Jetties and Self Propelled Barge
12.       Mwanza  The existing jetty facilities will be improved to load
oil barges on a regular basis with suitable sefety and measurement
facilities. Existing rail unloading facilities will be realigned to unload
20 wagons simultaneously using a multi-product unloading system. Other
existing facilities will be rehabilitated to the extent necessary.
13.       Musoma and Bukoba  The existing facilities will be modernized
with additional tankage. bulk measurement meters etc. The existing barge
unloading facilities will be rehabilitated under bi-lateral assistance from
DANIDA. At Musoma ESSO will extend hospitality to the other industry
members. BP (T) will do the same at Bukoba.
14.       Lake Victoria Barre  Currently a self propelled 400-ton
petroleum barge is used linking the various Jetties (Mwanza, Bukoba, Musoma
and Kisumu in Kenya) in Lake Victoria. The barge is owned and operated by
TRC. Due to poor maintenance, lack of essential spare parts, inefficient
operation, its availability has been reduced to 3 to 4 months per year for
the last several years. This is the only multi-product barge in operation
on Lake Victoria and if properly operated and maintained, could have been
she most cost effective petroleum transportation system between the three
jetties (Musoma, Kisumu and Jinja) benefitting Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda
respectively. For the northern lake areas of Tanzania, surrounding the
Bukoba and Musoma Jetties, there is no other option to obtain petroleum
products, except by road trucks, requiring long distances on badly
maintained roads.
15.       A technical survey by DANIDA indicates that the barge can be
repaired at a cost of about US$1 million. DANIDA will provide these
repairs under the on-going bi-lateral assistance to TRC Marine. The jetty
improvements will also be done using DANIDA assistance. As TOTAL will have
no facilities at Hwanza, it will receive hospitality from CALTEX.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 7
D. Railway Tank Wagons
16.       Tank Wagons  To enable the petroleum products to be moved by
rail TRC would need 42 new tank wagons, and TAZARA 39. These would be
acquired by TPDC with parallel financing from EC and would be operated on
the respective railways under a contract arrangement which would cover
systems and charges for maintenance, as well as an appropriate tariff. The
wagons for TRC will be programmed for acquisition in 1992 to match the
acquisition of adequate locomotive and operational capacity, and those for
TAZARA would be ordered as soon as the proposed project becomes effective.
E. Retail Network Rehabilitation
17.       Existing Retail Outlets   A number of existing retail outlets
are in a dire need of repair, replacement and modernization. The retail
petroleum marketing companies have prepared individual lists for parts and
replacement equipment. About US$8.8 million in foreign exchange will be
provided to meet these needs.
F. LPG Marketing Facilities
18.       LPG Marketing  About 6,000 tons of additional LPG will be made
available from the TIPER Refinery as a result of the refinery's
rehabilitation. Additional 6 filling plants (equipment only), 2 skid
mounted 10 ton capacity bullets, 6 tank wagons and 8 road tank trucks, 60
bulk supply tanks, 30,000 LPG bottles, 40,000 pressure regulators and
20,000 stoves will be provided to market the additional LPG. New manual
filling plants are proposed at Zanzibar, Makambako, Dodoma, Dar es Salaam
(2) and Isaka. The Government of Netherlands has expressed interest in
financing these components. The timing will be linked to satisfactory
progress in the refinery storage capacity.
G. Technical Assistance and Training
19.       To ensure efficient project implementation and develop technical
capabilities to sustain the sector efficiency thereafter, a technical
assistance component equivalent to US$5 million has been provided in the
project. Out of this about US$0.8 million will be used to recruit
consultants and experts; including a project manager to head the project
implementation team, oil transport specialist for RCC (for two years) and a
legal expert on international contracts (on a retainer basis). Government
will provide local counterparts who will be trained to perform these
activities, after the departure of specialists. Equivalent to US$0.5
million will be used for training the sector personnel and US$0.1 million
to train and equip TIB staff for administering the project funds. About
US$0.6 million will be used for purchase of equipment to provide
institutional support to the project and MWEM. Equivalent to US$3.0
million will be made available for the preparation of a pipeline project to             WM
supply gas for domestic use and other associated studies. Terms of



- 69 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 6 of 7
reference for the pipeline engineering, design study, and preparation of
bidding documents will be submitted to IDA for review by June 30, 1991. By
Dec. 31, 1991, the Borrower shall furnish to IDA for its review and
comments a plan of action for additional studies to be commissioned under
the project. Government, TIB and TPDC will contribute US$2 million in
local currency to support the foreign exchange part of the technical
assistance component.  The proposed foreign exchange allocations for
various components are:
Experts                   US$ 0.8 million
Studies                   USS 3.0 million
Equipment                 US$ 0.6 million
TIB Equipment & Training US$ 0.1 million
Training                  USS 0.5 million
Total                     US$ 5.0 million
Details of training needs, equipment and further studies will be prepared
by the beneficiaries on annual basis and reviewed with IDA. A proposed
four year training program to be financed from the Credit is shown in the
following table.



TRAINING PROA  Wi)R THE PETRIOLEU  SECTOR RIEAILITATION PROJECT
KItATION IN MAN UMONHS
VI         _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _                  FCTie                                        TOTAL
CIIUSSjDISCIPDE           U   133  135 134 11.  'Il  TN  MO  14   -           11.132 13a  134  n. T     131  132  135  14   TOTAL
1. Pa.jeeM  maI-mss        I    I          a   S      1         I        2     1    -    -    -    I1    1    1               0
2. oo  s       _ m  um.st                  I 1    2    1   S  S    1    a    16  2    2    -    - 4      7   4    6   2      18
S. e I Pro"g t             I    I    -    -    2      1    1    -    -2        -    -              -     2   2    -   -       4
4. Cs _        dI          1 a    2    -    -         1    1    _    -1        I    -    -    -   1      4   A         _      7
5. C.W.e .      _n            I       1    - a        1    -    I        -     I I    -    -    -   1    8   1    2   -       O
0. Oil br    e             -    I    -    -           1    1    1    4         -                         12    1    1         5
7. kImslogz    A P.        -    4    -    -   4       4    -   4    -   a      -    -    -    -   -      4   4    4    -     12
o. pf     uE.eumles        -    1    -    I    2      1    -    I    -2        -    -    -    -   -      11    2    -         4
9. Lee A C.eteee
Nso.tioeU.            2    1    -    -   *       -    2    -    - 2       -    1    -    -   -      24    -    -         O
10. 1tof.SU.el
PFoke y .         t. I    a    1    -    a       I    1    -    -   2     -    -    -    -   -      2   2    1   -       5
11.0Iub.rss"  Peee        s2    2    -    -    4      2    -    -    -   2     -    2    -    -   2      44    -    - 4
12.Traeft  _agmmW          -    I    -    -    I      -    2    2    -4        -    -    -    -   -      - 3      2    -      C
".1.6roS.i nAmatiq    -    -    -    -    -           -    a    1    -   S     -    -    -    -   -      -   2    1   -       a
lo..                11 17    4    8S           17  111 4    2  44        5    5    -    - o0    U   U   to   C          n
pi
-4



- 71 -
ANNI 4-2
TANZANIA-
-|                                           Pae  of 1
PITNOL   SECTOII RUDLTATION PROJECT
Projet Copo.nt a*nd Coat Istimates
(-fUSS '000)->
Depot RehabilItatIon     P. E.       Local       Totsal
Oor *a Salom             5,724       3,327       9,061
Arusha                     156         465       1,321
Sukloba                    157         248         400
Dodo"                    1,074         670       1,744
Kigom                      220         302         522
mils hu                    475         5O1         970
Woshi                      749       1,196       1,944
Mtwara                      75         S3          114
Musra                      256         323         579
wanca                    1,89        1,689       3,678
Pba                        200         164         364
Taboro                     342         394         736
Tango                      490         4"         906
Zanzibar                   732         560       1,812
Depot Sub-Total     13,339      10,2609     28,60
other Feel I cltee R.Sbl I ttrlon
2.t41I N-twork           4,647       1,449       ,906
Consuwr A LPG Pasrt      2,794         694       3,480
Transport facs.          1,646           0       1,643
Coomn Oar pace.          1,610         394       2,004
roea Kigoa Face.           110          24         134
Cemon wanca Frace.          e6          92         177
Otbhr Sub-Total     10,794       2,0653     13,447
. New Industry Fa  Ittlee
Joint Industry Depot
I-aka                    3,240       1,500       4,740
MaklI mako               1,700         750       2,450
Mboys                    1,700         750       2,450
mpand                      50          540       1,040
Tonga                    7,350       2,960      10,300
- - - -
Sub-Totl Depot.      14,490       6,490      20,900
C.  Other feellitil
l20 Pill. PlaGt  (6)       500         UO          n0
LPG Marketing race.      3,400        1in        3,5
Tang. Offshre Fae.       8,5o0          000      4,400
Sb-To l        7.400       1,406        *,m
S.  Otha Joint Project Co _peest
Rail nTak Wagam-OT       6,000                   6,000
LPG Task Tru   11        1,600                   1,600
Sarga Repelre            1,000                   1,000
Lake Viltora Jetty          ,0S0       200       1,700
Technical Assistanee     5,000       2,000       7,000
Sub-Total                15,100      2,200      17,300
E.  Contingsesei
Physical                 0,647       3,O0       10,347
Price                    0,330       2,723       9,053
Sub-Total               12,877       6,52S      19,400
___           -    -
TOTAL PROJECT COST     74,000      29,600    103,000
Ulsoton EsttaIue .



TANZANIA
PETRIMP SECTro(liuITATIoN PROJECT
Proloet Iul_at.atLoa Schedule
rojat    dl*  - moths               0   .   0   .   12  .   16  .   24  .   80.    0  .   42.   4e  .   U4.   00.   It
s . of   ltlp dopote                  DMElP        113  BES      PC                                          TC
ahb. of retell  twork                 DETP 1_3  KES              PC               TC                         TC
shah. of ot.c catlblaq too.           OEz          T 13 DES      PC                                          TC
NM. joint oil lade. depo              OEITP       1U1   ES       PC                                          TC
LPG fitIllegA rk         too.         OET?         l3 aES        PC                   TC
ball eok WOOs 1D                              ITII DES           PC                   TC
Treasport vhicls                       1        M11 DES          PC                    TC
LP  tak trucks                          ?      Ila ES            PC                    TC
Tang Jetty rehab i tatleo             DETP              11B KS        PC                    TC
T.A. soad P... easamgest                SC               Cs
E T P  - Desiga. Eaglnorlg aW Toadw Prprat loe
To     - levltatlo. to aid
S     - lid Evalsatloe sa  Solectiso
c      - ProCresimat sa  Coastrsckla
C      - Tstleg ad C      _mlelo.lag
C  -  oloi0 o oCaSultast
S     - C.puv"t.as  Ss.vlas
o l



- 73 -
ANNEX 4-4
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedulell
Fiscal Year                Quarter         Quarterly          Cumulative
-US$ Million-------
FY91                        III              0.30                0.30
IV              1.00                1.30
FY92                          I              0.30                1.60
II              0.40               2.00
III              1.00                3.00
IV              1.50               4.50
FY93                          I              2.00                6.50
II              2.50               9.00
III              2.50               11.50
IV              2.00              13.50
FY94                          I              2.50               16.00
I               2.00              18.00
III              3.00              21.00
IV              3.00              24.00
FY95                          I              3.00               27.OC
II              3.00              30.00
III              2.50               32.50
IV              2.50              35.00
FY96                          I              2.50               37.50
II              2.50              40.00
III              1.50               41.50
IV              1.30              42.80
FY97                          I              0.60               43.40
II              0.60              44.00
11 Mission estimates based on status of project preparation and experience
in similar petroleum projects in Africa.



- 74 -
ANNEX 4-5
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Principles of Inter-Company Hospitality
It is agreed that once a depot has been rehabilitated or built
as part of the World Bank project. tt will be available for throughputting
by any marketing companies licensed to operate in Tanzania, provided such
hospitality does not impair the host company's ability to meet its own
commitments.
The company taking hospitality will be expected to market the
throughput volume through their own retail outlets or dispensing equipment
at consumer premises, or to customers with whom they have proper supply
contracts.
The purpose of such hospitality is to overcome duplication of
distribution facilities, and therefore inefficienciis, where there is
sufficient capacity at another company's plant in any given distribution
area. It is recognized that a company taking hospitality cannot expect to
have a long term competitive cost advantage over the company giving the
hospitality by means of a low, incremental cost basis hospitality fee.
Consequently, the fee will take account of all costs relating to the depot,
and provide a return on capital employed which recognizes that the host
company is taking all the investment risk.
The throughput fee will therefore be set according to a formula
which covers the following elements:
-    full operating costs of the depot
-    overhead costs
-    a 201 after tax rate of return on the depreciated
replacement costs of the assets
In the case of sales to the local market, the throughput fee
will be payable in Tanzanian shillings. For transit or other forex earning
business, the fee will be payable in US dollars.



_ 75 -
ANNEX 4-6
Page I of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit Allocation by Beneficiaries
Petroleum Marketing Companies                   US$ Million
Individually owned
AGIP                                            4.6
BPT                                             6.5
CALTEX                                          6.4
ESSO                                            3.3
TOTAL                                            .2
-ub-Total                                 24.0 1/
Jointly owned  2/                                  6.6
Technical Assistance  3/                             5.0
Un-allocated                                       8.4
Total                                               44.0
1/ Inciudes individual requirements for road tank trucks for petroleum
producers
2/ Includes requirements for 8 LPG road trucks.
3/ For MEMW, TPDC and TIB.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project
IDA Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
ApjIroxizata                                   Expected Skill  Staff Input
Dates          Activity                    Requirements    (Staff Weeks)
3/91         Project Launch Mission          Engineering
Procurement
Disbursement
Financial              4
3t91         Review of Pricing Study         Engineering
Economics              4
3/91        Review of Tanga Study           Engineering
Economics              2
Firming up Financing           Financial
Plan and Documents Review                             2
7/91        Review of start up and organ-
ization, implementation of
dated and      other covenants;
and subsidiary loan
agreements and review of       Engineering            2
plan of action for studies.   Financial               2
11/91        Supervision Mission
Review of accounts, project
implementation, training,
related railway modernization Engineering             2
pricing and procurement.       Financial              2
5192        Supervision Mission
Review of progress, procure-
ment, operation of railway    Engineering             2
agreements and formal review  Financial               2
of covenants.                  Transport              1
Documents Review                                      4
FY/93 on     Approximately two supervision
missions per year, continuing
focus as for the 11/91 and
5/92 missions.                                        8
FY/97        Supervision mission to include
PCR preparation                                      15



- 77 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA
Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project
Economic Analysis
A. Supply and Distribution System
1.        This component includes revamping of rail loading and unloading
facilities, building new railway terminals at Mbeya and Makambako and
rehabilitating the existing retail net work. The capital cost ef this
component is estimated at about US$67 million of which US$44 million is in
foreign ezchange and US$23 million in local currency. The economics of the
project is based on the rehabilitated facilities serving the domestic
market only. However the facilities would also serve the transit trade to
the neighboring market of about 275,000 tpa in Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and
eastern Zaire; and about 50,000 tpa to the Malawi market. The transit
benefits (excluding the Malawi transit trade) were used only to test the
sensitivity of the project economics towards increased use of project
facilities and are not included in the base economics. The economic
calculations were based on the following assumptions.
(a) there will be a net incremental economic saving of US¢5.1 per
ton km (after adjusting for operational cost) against the
alternative of continuing supplies through the road system (in
constant 1989 prices and based on the data from Great Lakes
Corridor Study. The economic benefits accruing directly to the
rehabilitated project facilities assume that TRC. after its
rehabilitation is complete, would be able to deliver about
30,000 tpa (by 1996, increasing to 40,000 tpa by 2000) on the
central axis and about 17,000 tpa on the northern axis.
(b) there will be additional benefit from reduction in damage to
roads which results from the movement of heavy trucks and is
estimwted at US$2/ton (calculated on the basis of: USS per heavy
truck km - $ 0.015 + 0.0105ESA, where ESA means equivalent
standard axle). The economic benefits due to reduction in
product leakage and availability of additional products in the
interior of the country were not computed and would improve the
economic return on the investment.
(c) there could be about 275,000 tpa of transit trade to the
neighboring land-locked countries of Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and
eastern Zaire. This traffic represents about 50X of the imports
of these countries in 1993.
2.        The operating costs of the rehabilitated facilities are
estimated to be in line with current operating costs. Physical



- 78 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 2 of 4
contingencies were developed for each project segment with the help of oil
marketing companies. Price contingencies were developed on the basis of
inflation factors in Tanzania and international markets as shown in Table A
below.
Table A: Tanzania Contingency Price Increase Factors
(Percentage Increases)
Year                 Tanzania              Foreign
1991                    18.0                 4.7
1992                    13.0                 4.7
1993                    10.0                 4.7
1994                    10.0                 4.7
1995                    M00                 4.7
3.        The annual inflation factors were adjusted to financial year and
applied in line with the project implementation schedule. The fore'gn MUV
factor are based on the weighted average of Tanzania's trading pr.rtners.
The base exchange rate was shadow priced at US$1 - 200 Shilling. The
future exchange rate has been based on the concept of purchasing power
parity, which assumes that the exchange rate would move in line with the
ratio of the domestic inflation divided by international inflation rate.
The benefits stream is expressed in constant 1989 prices.
4.        Cost/benefits stream for the base case scenarios and sensitivity
analysis are shown in Table B below. The economic rate or return for base
case is estimated at 26Z. With the road damage benefit included, the
economic return improves to 292. The economics is highly sensitive to the
transit trade and if these benefits are included, the IRR would improve to
about 69?.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.        Sensitivity tests were applied for 202 increase in investment
costs and 10? decrease in volumes. A 102 decrease in volumes also
surrogates for a 102 increase in operational costs. Rate of return is
sensitive to investment cost, and to small extent to decrease in volumes.
A 20Z increase in investment would reduce the rate of return to 202. A 102
decrease in volumes or 102 increase in operational costs would reduce the
return to 22Z. At 122 opportunity cost of capital, the project can sustain
38Z drop in sales volume.



- 79 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 3 of 4
Table B: Economics of Rehabilitation Project
+202     -102  + Transit  +Road    +Road
Inst    Volume    Trade   Damage   Damage
Year  Invest. Benefits  C. Flow  C. Flow  C. Flow  C. Flow  *$2/ton  C. Flow
1   (3,700)   2,938      (762)  (1,502)  (1,055)    (762)      192      (570)
2  (16,800)   6,313  (10,487) (13,847) (11,118)  (6,487)       368  (10,119)
3  (19,500)   8,904  (10,596) (14,496) (11,486)  (4,596)       500  (10,096)
4   i4,000)  10,576   (3,424)  (6,224)  (4,481)   4,576        602   (2,822)
5   :5,000)  10,701    4,701    3,501    3,631   14,701        684    5,385
6   (5,000)  11,097    6,097    5,097    4,987   16,097        710    6,807
7            11,507   11,507   11,507   10,357   21.507        734   12,241
8            11,933   11,933   11,933   10,740   21,933        764   12,697
9            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375        792   13,167
10            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375        792   13,167
11            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375        792   13,167
12            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375        792   13,167
13            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375        792   13,167
14            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375         792   13,167
15            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375        792   13,167
16            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375         792   13,167
17            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375         792   13,167
18            12,375   12,375   12,375   11.137   22,375         792   13,167
19            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375        792   13,167
20            12,375   12,375   12,375   11,137   22,375         792   13,167
Base IRR                26.42
+202 Investment IRR    19.72
-102 Volumes IRR        22.32
+Transit Trade          69.1?
+Road Damage            29.21
Switching Value *12? Opportunity Cost of Capital       622 of the through-put volumes.
B.  Tanga Terminal
6.        This component includes the development of a bulk terminal and
erection of dolphins to moor tankers in the deep water in Tanga to import
petroleum products directly for the Northern markets (Tanga, Moshi and
Arusha). The project would cost US$17 million, including US$ 3.8 million
in local costs. The cost would include US$4.4 million for deep water
mooring facility. The economics of this component is based on the
incremental accruals of savings over and above the benefits of
Rehabilitation component of the project, including freight savings accruing
due to direct import of petroleum into Tanga in 25,000 DWT tankers.
Cost/benefits streams for this component are shown in Table C below. The
incremental oase case economics would be 15.42. With 202 increase



- 80 -
ANNEX 5-1
Page 4 of 4
investment the return would drop to 12.32 and with a decrease of 10 in
volumes the return would be 13.61. With the benefit of road damage, the
economic return would improve to 17.4?.
Table C: Economics of Tanga Terminal
+202     -10      Road      +Road
Base    Inst      Volume   Damage   Damage
Year  Invest. Benefits  C. Flow  C. Flow  C. Flow e $2/ton  C. Flow
1                            0         0         0        0         0
2   (5,500)             (5,500)  (6,600)  (5,500)          0   (5,500)
3   (4,500)             (4,500)  (5,400)  (4,500)       133   (4,367)
4   (5,000)   1,370   (3,630)  (4,630)  (3,767)         276   (3,354)
5   (2,850)   2,839        (11)    (581)    (295)       286       275
6              2,942    2,942    2,942    2,647         297    3,238
7              3,048    3,048    3.048    2,743         308    3,496
8              3,177    3,177    3,177    2,859         319    3,496
9              3,290    3,290    3,290    2,961         331    3,621
10              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
11              3.407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
12              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
13              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
14              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
15              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
16              3.407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3.738
17              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
18              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
19              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
20              3,407    3,407    3,407    3,066         331    3,738
Base IRK                 15.4Z
+201 Investment IRR    12.32
-102 Volumes IRR         13.6?
+Road Damage IRk         17.4?
NPV @122 Cap Cost        USS 2.7 million



- 81 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITAT1ON PRO. CT
Prolect Monitoring Indicators
During negotiations, indicators pertinent to the project
implementation along the lines outlined below, were discussed and agreed
with the representatives of the Government as the basis for establishing an
agreed monitoring system.
(a) preparation of quarterly and annual financial statements for
review with IDA;
(b) preparation of quarterly reports on the physical and financial
progress of the project, status of procurement and contracting,
and disbursement schedule;
'c) maintenance of up-to-date record of all technical and financial
data to assess procurement; and
'd) preparation of periodic reports related to routins maintenance
of the rehabilitated facilities aside from the rehabilitation
program;



CHART 1
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS DISTREUTION BY ROAD SYSTEM
(Current)
MUSOMA
BUKOBA           1420 KM
A
TO RWANDA
*         1178 KM
z  .    MNZA
*0 . \.   0.000 §                  _  647 KM
A *    *.* *       -                 ARUSHA
TO BURUI0   *-.                                                  562 KM
... ........ .... e )|rMOSHI
**             *. t 0
TABORA
1053 KM            .34 KM
KIGOMA                                                                        TANG
1539 KM   *.              #                     XDODOMA
..              ..                ** 479 KM
0           a~~~~~~
W0 DA          .. 0                                  \<       O DSM
IRINGA       ,/      196 KM
*.       .           ~~~~~501 KM o*
*               * 0
*      ;. ~~851 KM 
00.             '-
Sutwaced Roads                           MAKAMBAKOK
. .* ** .* Gravel Roads                          65 K
0~~~~
ITUNGI
Note. Distances in Klometers are approxhiate only  POR MAAW                                       ea%46616
___



CHART 2
TANZANIA
PROPOSED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
/ TO/FROM KENYA
TO UGANDA .       SM
BUKOBA                 MSM
0 MWANZA RAIL/LAKE
TERMINAL
ARUSHA                        *CVERSEAS
..iMPORTS
J                ^_Q"~~~~~~OSHI 
TO BUJUMBURA      TO RVWANDA
BY BARGE        A BURUN4DI
*               V  > ~~~~TRANSIT                               MATRINEL 
TO ZAIRE                                 -                                    TERM>NAL:
KIGOOUA               TABORx .ZAN1A
ByB RGE LAKE                                                                            5ANZIBAR
TERMINAL                                               A  
MPANDA                                 '                                 O,SM
MIKUMI0 
'TOZ ZAME
4  TO MALAWI                                   °
-        " RRi Mowemnt                       __. BY ROAD                               MTWARA
****"  Bagwg\T*e_ Moement                    ^BY BARGE
Gravd Road
Note. Distance& in Kionutar we appoxfrnate only                                                         *N4sa



MVANZA                                                                 UANI|
Bukoba                                                                      KINYA  :c
RWANDA
RWANDA  AG~~~C R1 MA RABUND
/AIRI ~ O/MBQU
TANZANIA
PETROLEUM
R1,l(;01RtJIA    9          96&    9 |               g  \  a   S       DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
A \ < laborg                                            Islad
130RA     t       Ocl             >iJ                       -   Island S De"
ba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Znia                         b%V Dpt X 
nSdA,5@  )Za_0Mtwar,a
(*** ; fl gg 1                        \  /   tjV   X1
r Rn.C.0-. 0                      S     10Z
ZA} £-                                  q n ,1 M(OZAMU!Qt J[    N,II,.,K o  w5
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3Y                                                   Ma,           Naw ,  Ita



