Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5239-TA
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
!OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 33.7 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 13, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C ,ECY EQ2UAET
Currency Unit  -  Tanzanian Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00        = TSh  130.0 (at time of appraisal)
US$1.00        =  TSh  195.0 (October 1990)
TSh1.O         =  US$0.0051
PETRCIPhL ABBRVTIOS MD ACRONM  USED
EC             European Communities
EIB            European Investment Bank
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
ESAP           Economic and Social Action Program
GOT       2    Government of Tanzania
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDA            International Development Association
IRTAC          Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment
Credit
LPG            Liquified petroleum gas
MRC       =    Multisector Rehabilitation Credit
MWEM           Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
PSC            Project Supervisory Committee
PWG            Project Working Group
TAZARA    -    Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority
TIB            Tanzania Investment Bank
TIPER     2    Tanzanian and Italian Refinery Company Ltd
TPDC      t    Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
TRC       2    Tanzania Railway Corporation
VEIGHTS AND EEASURES
1 metric ton (mt)              .    1,000 kilograms (kg), 7.19
barrels, 1,143 cubic meter
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe) -    10 million kilocalories (39.7
million Btu)
1 US gallon                    -    3.785 liters
1 liter                        -    0.26 US gallon
Fiscal Year
Government/TIB:           July 1 - June 30
TPDCt                    January 1 - December 31
Oil Companies:            January 1 - December 31
This report was prepareu by Zia Mian  ('PTIE),  task manager until
completion of negotiations, T. S. Nayar, Principal Engineer (AFTIE) and
Eric Daffern, Principal Financial Analyst (AF6IE) task manager since Mr.
Mian's departure. Secretarial support was provided by Mrs. Joan Pandit
and Mrs. Adriana Arriagada.   Messrs.  Franco Batzella and Kenneth
Newcombe acted as lead advisors. Messrs. David Cook (AF6IE) and Stephen
Denning (AF6DR) were the managing Division Chief and Country Director.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANI*
PETROLEUM SiECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiar5es:            Ministry of Water,  Energy and Minerals  (MWEM),
petroleum   marketing   companies   and   Tanzania
Petroleum Development Corporation (T'nCl
Amount:                   SDR 33.7 million  (US$44.0 million equivralent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity
On-lending Terms:         A portion of the Credit will be used by MWEM for
technical  assistance,  project  management  and
studies  (US$5 million).    The  balance  of  the
proceeds  would  be  on-lent  to  the  project
beneficiaries for a maximum term of 15 years
(including a five-year grace period) at an interest
rate of at least 9.5? per annum.   The Tanzania
Investment Bank will administer the on-lent funds
on behalf of GOT,  and receive a 1Z,  one-time
commission, and a 1I service fee to cover
operational costs. Government will bear the credit
risk and the beneficiaries will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Financing Plan:
US$ million equivalent
IDA                                  44.0
DANIDA                                2.5
EIB *                                 8.9
EC *                                   6.0
Govarrnment of Netherlands             6.5
OPEC Fund                              6.1
TPDC/Government/Oil Companies        29.6
Total                103.6
*    Availability of funds subject to ratification of
Lome IV by member governments. If EIB financing is
delayed the Borrower will secure financing from
alternative sources.
Economic Rate of Return: 26Z for the rehabilitation of the distribution
system and 15? for the Tanga bulk petroleum
terminal.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 8342-TA
MLan:                     IBRD No. 22181
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORAUDUM AND           TION OT ME PUESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATION&L DEVELOHENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A PETROLEUN SECTOR RHRBILITATION PROJECT
1.        The  following  memorandum  and  recommendation  on  a  proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for SDR 33.7 million
(US$44 million equivalent) is submitted for approval. Part I of the document
discusses the country's economic performance and development prospects, and
the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II of the document describes the
proposed credit.
I. Country Policies and Bank Group Assistance Strategy
Background
2.        In the first six years after Tanzania achieved independence in
1961, its economic policy objectives stressed growth in per capita income and
national self sufficiency in skilled manpower, relying mainly on market
forces.   The economy, which was predominantly dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, registered rapid growth. Despite this
growth, the country continued to depend on external financing, made little
improvement in income distribution and did not diversify its economic
structure.    Disappointed with  these  results,  in  1967  the  Government
reassessed its development objectives and strategies, introduced sweeping
changes and embarked on a new epoch of economic management.
3.        The new priorities, as enunciated in the Arusha Declaration, were
directed towards establishing a socialist society, with emphasis to be given
to broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and
the development of an educational system geared to the needs of the people.
The Arusha Declaration emphasized that the State, with guidance from the
Party, should play the leading role, especially in the reform and creation of
appropriate institutions. This led in the late 19609 and early 1970s to the
nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and finance, the formation
of Ujamaa (communal) villages, and the replacement of farmers' cooperatives
with state-run crop marketing authorities responsible for all aspects of
marketing of Tanzania's main export crops. The Government also embarked upon
an ambitious program of industrialization based upon import substitution and
the creation of heavy industries.
4.        Despite the abrupt major institutional changes, Tanzania managed
to achieve significant improvements in the social sectors during the 1960s
and early 1970s.  Tanzania's commitment to social sectors and longer term
development issues attracted sizeable amounts of aid from the donor
community. Significant results were achieved in the areas of education and
health with well-publicized improvements in literacy, access to primary
education, infant survival, and health care in general. By the end of the
1970s, the Government had made substantial progress towards achieving its
social and equity objectives through the development of social services. The
enrollment rate in primary schools increased from 32 percent in 1965 to



-2
almost 60 percent by 1975, life expectancy rose by nearly 5 years and access
to safe watei. improved in both rural and urban areas. Significant reductions
were registered in net income disparities through the tax structure and a
dramatic compression in net salary ranges in the public sector.
5.        The Economic Crisis.  In the second half of the 1970s, however, the
Tanzanian economy entered a period of economic decline from which it is only
now beginning to recover. The overall downturn in the economy was caused in
part by a series of external factors including successive droughts, the rapid
increase in oil prices, the collapse of the East African Community and the
war with Uganda.    But  the crisis  drew attention  to the policy  and
institutional weaknesses and the underlying distortions. These included,
inter alia, an overvalued exchange rate, inadequate incentives and resources
for  the  agricultural   sector,   a  poorly  devised   and   implemented
industrialization strategy, excessive administrative controls over economic
activity and the continued growth in the size of the public sector without
due regard to the limited financial and administrative capacity.
The Adjustment Process
6.        Economic Survival Plans and the Structural Adiustment Program
(1980-1982). In response to the rapidly deteriorating economic situation,
the Gcvernment launched Economic Survival Plans in 1980 and 1981, and a
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) in 1982. However, these policy reform
efforts were insufficient to reverse the situation. The adjustment of the
exchange rate, for example, was insufficient to remove the overvaluation, and
the increase in agricultural producer prices fell short of the prevailing
rate  of  inflation.    The 1984/85 budget,  however,  provided  the  first
indication of a new pragmatism in the Government's economic management. The
exchange rate was devalued by a third, parastatal subsidies were cut, an
import liberalization program was initiated, and restrictions on the movement
of grain were eased. Simultaneously, cooperatives (which had been abolished
in 1976) were re-established and were assigued many of the responsibilities
and assets of the abolished crop authorities. Positive responses to these
measures encouraged the Government to consider a more comprehensive and
systematic policy reform program.
7.        The  Economic  Recuvery  Program  (ERP)  1986-b9.    In mid-1986,
following a review of the SAP experience in light of the disappointing
performance of the economy, and after extensive consultations with the Bank
and the IMF, the Government introduced a new Economic Recovery Program (ERP)
aimed at remedying the defects of earlier policies. The ERP was endorsed by
the first Consultative Group (CG) meeting in nine years. The objectives of
the ERP were: (a) to increase the output of food and export crops by
providing appropriate price and non-price incentives for production, by
improving marketing structures, and by increasing budgetary and foreign
exchange resources available to agriculture; (b) to improve the physical
infrastructure by directing resources to rehabilitation rather than new
investments; (c) to increase industrial production by improving capacity
utilization through improved mechanisms for allocation of scarce foreign



-3-
exchange; and (d) to restore domestic and external equilibrium by pursuing
prudent fiscal, monetary and trade policies.
8.        The ERP envisaged that the Tanzanian economy would achieve positive
growth rates in per capita income, a sustainable external balance of payments
position with both higher export and import levels, an acceptably low rate of
inflation, and restored levels of physical and social infrastructure within
5-7 years. To this end, the Government made significant policy changes at
both the macro and sectoral levels, including: (i) substantial exchange rate
adjustments and introduction and subsequent expansion of a window for non-
administrative allocation of foreign exchange (the Open General Licensing
system); (ii) significant adjustments in interest rates, resulting in real
positive rates for some instruments; (iii) a major reduction in the number of
price controlled items; (iv) real increases in producer prices for export
crops and reforms in agricultural marketing (e.g., eliminating all remaining
restrictions on the transport and marketing of grain; and for some
traditional export crops allowing cooperatives to export directly, without
resort to the marketing boards); (v) liberalization of most transport tariffs
and support for private transport fleets; and (vi) institutional changes
aimed at encouraging and facilitating the activities of the private sector.
9.        The  ERP  was  supported  by  significant  inflows  of  external
assistance, including an August 1986 IMF Standby Arrangement and a November
1986 IDA Multisector Rehabilitation Credit (MRC, Crs. 1741-TA and A03Y-TA) of
US$135 million. A PFP elaborating on the ERP policies was endorsed by the
Committee of the Whole and the IMF Board in October 1987, and facilitated
Tanzania's access to the IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility. In January
1988, IDA provided an additional of US$30 million for the ERP as supplemental
financing for the NRC. A second PFP that facilitated Tanzania's access to
IMP resources in the context of the second annual arrangement under the SAF,
was endorsed by the Committee of the Whole and IMF Board in November 1988.
In December 1988, the Board approved further support for the ERP through the
Industrial Rehabilitation and Trade Adjustment Credit (IRTAC, Cr. 1969-TA)
for US$135 million. More generally, the ERP attracted considerable support
from the international community including a significant increase in
concessional capital flows, particularly for import support.
10.       The combination of policy and insti_utional reforms and increased
external assistance resulted in a substantial improvement in the economy.
The rate of growth of real GDP exceeded the population growth rate in 1986
for the first time since 1980, and is estimated to have grown at 4 percent
p.a. in 1987 and 1988, and at slightly above four percent for 1989,
indicating not only continued real per capita growth, but also a slight
acceleration of the pace of economic recovery. Moreover, much of the obvious
growth in economic activity taking place throughout the country is outside of
the formal sector and is most likely not fully captured in the GDP
statistics. An exchange rate depreciation of over 85 percent in less than
two years improved resource allocation and reduced excess demand for imports.
Inflation has not risen from the pre-ER? level in spite of the significant
devaluation and the removal of price controls. The behavior of the parallel
market exchange rate provided a clear, quantifiable indicator of the extent
of the macroeconomic adjustment, appreciating in real terms by about 30
percent  from 1986 through  1988.   Increased availability  of  fuel and
transport, the liberalization of food grain trade, and improvements in farm
input supplies have resulted in improved availability and more competitive



supplies of the staple foods. Increased transport capacity, partieularly in
the private sector, together with the continuation and expansion of the own-
funded import scheme, have resulted in a much improved availability of basic
consumer goods throughout the country and have acted as a considerable
incentive for production of export crops.   Manufactured and other non-
traditional exports have also begun to increase rapidly.
11.       Generally,  the  ERP  stabilization measures  were  successfully
implemented and have resulted in a significant reduction of economic
distortions. But these are only ITItial steps which need to and are being
followed by further policy and institutioaal changes for tha nascent recovery
to be intensified and sustained.  In the monetary area, for example, the
Government failed to limit overall credit growth, with the result that the
ERP targets of reduced inflation will take longer to achieve. Moreover,
because of inappropriate credit allocation, saw dynamic segments of the
economy have been relatively starved of liquidity.    e roots of the credit
problem are in the structural flaws of the agricultural marketing and
financial system (paras 18 and 21); these are complex institutional problems,
which are now at the top of the Government's policy reform agenda aAd
priority issues in our assistance strategy as discussed below.



Table Is TZUNUNA -   ET MACROECDSZC IDICAI$
1is"     1987     1988      1989      1990
GOP Growth rate                      8.6      4.0       4.8       4.4      4.5
GDY/Capit. growth rate               1.6    -0.9        2.2       0.7      1.8
Consumptlon/capita growth rate       2.1      0.3       0.4       0.6      0.7
Debt servce (in US  o)                69       88        8S        87       90
Debt s.rvieo/XGS                    16.0     16.7      17.2      16.4     15.2
Debt servloo/GDP                     1.4      2.4       2.7       8.1      8.6
oross Investment/GOP                16.6     17.8      16.2      19.4     19.B
Domestic saving/GOP 1/               6.6      0.0      -4.8      -0.8     -8.5
National savingn/GDP 1/              8.5      0.6      -4.0      -0.6     -4.0
Ratio of pub/pvt Investment         ?8.8     44.7      89.7      88.3     88.1
GOvt.revev.us/GDP                   15.1     16.2      19.8      28.1     23.1
Govt.expenditures/GDP               28.0     24.8      28.6      32.8     82.8
Deficit(-) or surplus(*)/GDP        -7.9    -4.0       -8.7      -9.7     -9.8
Exports 9rowth rate                 -4.6     16.7      6.2        9.2     10.5
Export*/GDP 1/                       9.1     18.0      15.5      18.2     28.0
Import growth rate                   6.1      0.7      0.9        5.6      2.7
Importe/GDP 1/                      20.8    85.4    40.0         48.0     59.2
Current account (in US1 i.)         -897     -742      -744      -688     -758
Current account/GDP 1/              -8.1    -21.8    -28.7      -28.9   -80.1
memo Items:
ExchangC Rate                       82.7    64.8       99.8     148.9   196.1
Rel Exchang Rate Index 2/          1.088   0.685    0.601       0.468    0.403
Domestic  nf lation Rate            82.4    29.9    81.2         27.0     18.6
Notes:
1/ Ratio* are calculated In current terms. The large swings in the
ratios are primarily related to the adjustment in the exchange rate -
offsetting the significant overvaluation of the Tanzanian shilling in
earlier years.
2/ 1980 = 1. Rise In the Index indicates appreciation.
All growth rates are expressed In constant terms, ratios to GOP In current
terms.



- 6 -
Vey Development Issues and Government Policies under ERP II (Economic and
Social Action Program) 1990-92
12.       In order to consolidate the ERP stabilization measures and
sustain economic growth, the macroeconomic adjustment program needs to be
continued and completed.   Equally important, crucial structural and
institutional improvements need to occur at all levels of the economic
system. Consequently, the Government prepared a second phase of its ERP
called the "Economic and Social Action Program" (ESAP) for the period
1990-92.   The ESAP was presented at the last CG meeting, in Paris in
December 1989.   The policies of the Government introduced under the
program were welcomed and significant additional resources were pledged
for the first year of the ESAP. The main features of the ESAP include,
inter alia: (i) continued adjustment of the exchange rate; (ii) continued
trade   policy   reform;   (iii) reform   of   agricultural   marketing;
(iv) financial sector restructuring; (v) public sector management reform;
(vi) industrial restructuring; (vii) rehabilitation of the physical
infrastructure in support of the directly productive sectors; and
(viii) rehabilitation of the delivery system for social services.
Macroeconomic Management
13.       The ESAP explicitly recognizes the need to continue to move from
direct to indirect economic management instruments.  Indeed, the shift
from administrative mechanisms has been at the core of the policy changes.
But the indirect instruments need to be further developed and the capacity
of the Government to use them needs to be strengthened. The development
of these instruments, their application to reduce distortions and
increasing the relative incentives for economically efficient activities
will continue to be the focus of our macroeconomic dialogue.
14.       The Foreign Exchange Management Regime.  In the short term, the
key adjustment required is the adoption of an appropriate foreign exchange
rate regime. Since April 1986, the exchange rate has devalued from Tsh 17
to Tsh 195 per US dollar (October 1990).  This represents significant
progress towards depreciating the Tanzanian shilling in real terms. For
the future, it is important for the Government to adopt an exchange rate
management regime whereby the exchange rate is continuously reviewed and
adjusted in line with developments in the balance of payments in general,
and in the OGL and in exports incentives in particular, and which accounts
for, inter alia, terms of trade and inflationary developments. Working
with the DMF towards the establishment of a responsive foreign exchange
management regime is a key component of our strategy.
15.       Money and Credit.  During the ERP, the annual limits for money
and credit expansion were exceeded.  As a result, tha Government was not
able to reduce inflation, but managed to contain it at 28 percent per
annum, despite the massive exchange rate adjustment. The excessive growth
in credit was largely the result of the financial difficulties of the
marketing boards, in particular the National Milling Corporation and to a
lesser extent, the tobacco and cotton marketing boards owing to their
institutional rigidities, transportation, storage and processing problems.
The Government's objective is to reduce the rate of monetary growth while
ensuring adequate supply of credit to the more productive sectors of the
economy. This not only requires an appropriate fiscal policy but also the



-7-
elimination of the financial difficulties of the marketing b3ards throu3h
the restructuring of the agricultural marketing system (para 19).
16.       Government Budget.  The Government was successful under the ERP
in controlling expenditure, and focussed the public investment program on
rehabilitation and completion of ongoing projects rather than on new
investments.   It also succeeded in containing the overall budgetary
deficit within the set limits.   However, serious issues remain to be
addressed  (paras  23).    Practically  all  Government  activities  are
underfunded.   Furthermore, although recurrent transfers to parastatals
have largely been terminated, heavy claims are now being made on the
budget for parastatal restructuring and in respect of earlier parastatal
overdrafts guaranteed by the Government.
17.       On the revenue side, the first phase of reform of customs
tariffs and sales taxes was initiated under IRTAC.   Focus now is on
additional measures for correcting the remaining structural deficiencies
in the tax system (e.g., extensive use of exemptions) and its
administration (e.g., poor collection and compliance rates) so as to
further improve the revenue performance.
18.       Pricing and Distribution Policies.   To encourage domestic
savings and efficient financial resource use, the Government made the
structure of interest rates positive in real terms.   The Government
expects to be able to reduce interest rates by lowering the rate of
inflation through appropriate budgetary and monetary policies. The number
of categories of goods subject to price control was reduced to 10,
considered basic necessities, comprising less than 15 percent of the
consumer price index basket. As goods were decontrolled, the regulations
that *confine' goods to specified parastatals for their importation and
wholesale distribution were also dismantled. Our strategy is to continue
to work with the Government to continue the processes of price decontrol
and deconfinement.
Maior Sectoral Issues
19.       Agriculture.    Restoration  of growth  and  increased  export
earnings will depend primarily on the performance of the agricultural
sector, and hence on the package of incentives for agriculture. Under the
ERP, the Government has raised the real level of producer prices, linking
them more closely to developments in world market prices.  Improvements in
the efficiency of agricultural marketing would also be critical. Domestic
foodgrains trade from the farmgate to the consumer was liberalized in the
past three and a half years, and this was a major factor in the increased
production. As part of ESAP, the Government has begun to implement a
program for fundamental changes to improve the structure of export crop
and agricultural input marketing (under the Bank-supported Tanzania
Agricultural Adjustment Program.   For some crops,  it has permitted
cooperative unions and other bodies to participate in export marketing and
to import inputs either directly or through agents. As further measures,
the program focuses on diversification of marketing channels and other
improvements in the efficiency of export crop marketing. The key features
of the program are:  (i) to reduce the role of the marketing boards to
managing auctions or open tender systems and providing quality control and
market intelligence; and (ii) to introduce multiple channels of marketing



- 8 -
by allowing private traders, farmers' associations, primary cooperative
societies and cooperative unions to trade freely among themselves and to
retain ownership until final sale of their crop. The next phase of the
progran will require reforming the cooperatives. Studies are now underway
to develop a reform progrwa for these marketing agents.
20.       Financial Sector Reform.  The increased reliance on indirect
instruments of economic management and the reduced role of the Government
in directly productive activities must be accompanied by a restructured
role for the financial sector in the mobilization and allocation of
resources. At present, however, the sector is afflicted by a number of
major problems including the poor financial condition of the banking
institutions, the inadequate capacity for resource mobilization and
serious inefficiencies in credit allocation (primarily to public
enterprises and cooperatives, ignoring the private sector). Consequently,
the Government has undertaken a comprehensive sector review with Bank and
IMF assistance and is preparing an action program for the reform of the
sector. The main objectives of the Government's reforms are to diversify
financial channels and services, improve resource mobilization, restore
the financial viability and increase the efficiency of the banking
institutions. The reform is also expected to cover the overall system for
managing and regulating financial institutions including the functioning
of the Bank of Tanzania (the central bank), the restructuring of the
National Bank of Commerce, overhauling the system for providing
agricultural credit and parastatal finance, establishment of new
specialized financial institutions and introducing new instruments and
services. The Bank plans to support the setion program in this key sector
with a Financial Restructuring Credit (para. 46).
21.       Industry.  The Government's objectives in the industrial sector
are to improve capacity utilization while at the same time ensuring that
resources are directed towards the more productive and efficient firms in
the sector.   In this regard, external sector policies and fiscal and
monetary policies are of critical importance.   In addition, specific
interventions are being prepa.ed to assist in the progressive
restructuring of particular subsectors, commencing with textiles, leather
and agro-processing. These are potentially viable sub-sectors that could
be expected to recover quickly and provide substantial supply responses.
The strategy is to continue the subsectoral approach by carrying out more
subsectoral studies and developing and implementing additional subsectoral
restructuring programs.   Reforms in the management and operation of
parastatals are also necessary to ensure that they are responsive to price
and other macroeconomic signals.
22.       Infrastructure. A major objective of ESAP is the rehabilitation
of physical infrastructure.   The main emphasis under the Government's
recovery program in regard to roads was the rehabilitation of the
country's network of highways, secondary roads, feeder roads and access
roads, which are of particular importance to the evacuation of
agricultural production to processing centers and ports. Closely linked
with rehabilitation is improving the capacity of central and local
government authorities to maintain the road network, both in regard to
stretches that are still in rea,onable condition and those that are
recently rehabilitated. The Government with Bank assistance prepared an
Integrated Roads Project (IRP), which was approved by the Board on May 31,



- 9 -
1990. A comprehensive road transport policy paper was prepared by the
Government and its recommendations have made an important contribution to
the further improvement of policies in this area. A two- stage program
for the rehiabilitation of the Tanzanian railway system has also been
prepared and endorsed by donors who committed sufficient funds for the
first stage of the program which has been completed. A second phase was
appraised in July 1990.   The railway rehabilitation program is an
important ingredient in the rehabilitation of the petroleum distribution
system, which itself is needed to complement the road and other projects.
The challenge for the Government under ESAP is to implement these agreed
transport rehabilitation programs.
Public Sector Management
23.       The public sector has always been cast in the leading role in
the  Tanzania's  development  strategy.    However,  despite  impressive
achievements in the past, the sector Is no longer able to fulfill that
role, and, in fact, has become a drag on the recovery of the economy. If
recovery is to be sustained, it is necessary to address critical problems
in  four  broad  areas:    (i) central  government    public  expenditure
priorities; (ii) local government finance and management, (iii) public
service pay, staffing levels, and management, and (iv) the parastatal
sector.
24.       Central Government Expenditures.  Central government programs
are over-extended and under-funded. Among the main causes are: the rapid
expansion of commitments, revenue weakness, crowding out of ministerial
programs by debt service and emergency funding for parast-.tals, and the
overexpansion of staffing.   The Government needs to focus recurrent
expenditures on priority programs, and resolve She financial difficulties
of parastatals as quickly as possible. Though it has been significantly
scaled back and focussed on the completion of existing projects, the
Public Investment Program (PIP) requires further rationalization to
reflect rehabilitation priorities more effectively. The Government and
the Bank jointly carried out a public expenditure review (PER).   The
recommendations of this study constitute a basis for the restructuring of
the public expenditure and the formulation of a medium-term strategy for
public expenditures, covering both recurrent and development outlays under
ESAP.
25.       Public Service.   For at least one and a half decades the
Tanzanian Government expanded its total employment twice as fast as the
underlying revenue base.  By 1984, total employment in public service,
excluding the armed forces, was about 300,000, a level that has remained
constant since then. Over the years, as the budget situation deteriorated
and inflation rose, pay levels failed to keep pace and differentials
became compressed, severely distorting the incentive structure and
reducing public service morale and productivity. The average wage has
lost 80 percent of its value since 1976. The ratio of after-tax incomes
between top salary and minimum wage was as low as about 4:1 in 1987/88,
though this has improved to 9X1 currently. The Government has moved to
eliminate ghost workers (about 28,000 were eliminated from Government pay
roles in 1989), but further retrenchment is required if pay levels are to
be restored. In addition, the Government's capacity to effectively manage
the public service and restore discipline needs to be strengthened.



- 10 -
26.       Local Government.  After being in abeyance for over a decade
during the period of decentralization, local governments (district and
urban councils) were reintroduced in 1983/1984 and given responsibilities
for, inter alia, primary education, health care and water supplies. With
a few exceptions, urban and district councils have performed poorly.
Their staffs are too large, paid on the same eroded scales as central
government, and poorly motivated. They have generally not succeeded in
collecting much revenue of their own and remain heavily dependent on
transfers from central government. Financial and establishment controls
and overall management are weak.
27.       Parastatals.   With over 400 different agencies, Tanzania's
parastatal sector is too large, poorly managed, and for the most part an
inefficient user of resources and a burden on the economy. Lifting the
burden of the public sector by reducing its size and making it operate
more efficiently is one of the most important and difficult tasks facing
policy makers in the next five years. Among other actions, utilities need
to adjust their tariffs; insolvent financial institutions need to be
restored to health (or done away with), and many public enterprises need
to be scaled back or abolished.   The Bank and the Government jointly
reviewed the parastatal sector and a report, 'Parastatals in Tanzania:
Towards a Reform Program', was issued in July 1988. The Bank is assisting
the Government to develop a reform program based on the results of the
study.   Our proposed lending program includes an adjustment lending
operation intended to support the -implementation of reform programs to
improve public sector management.
Longer term Development Issues
28.       Population and Human Resource Development.  In addition to the
issues discussed above, Tanzania faces a number of medium to
long-term issues, some of which have short-term aspects which Government
programs must begin to address.  Tanzania faces a critical problem in
terms of the rapid rate of population growth (3.2 percent per annum). If
fertility does not decline, the rate of population growth will have grave
implications for: (i) the country's resource base, particularly land and
the environment; (ii) per capita incomes and living standards; and
(iii) pressures on public services, particularly education, health and
housing facilitie.,.   Our assistance  strategy will focus on helping
Tanzania to slow down the population growth rate by supporting efforts for
family planning and/or monitoring an education campaign.
29.       Closely related is the issue of human resource development
including, inter alia, the strengthening of the analytical and monitoring
capabilities to pursue both immediate and longer term development goals.
Key issues in this regard are: (i) mobilizing resources for the social
sectors (cost-recovery and community participation); and (ii) more
efficient use of existing resources (for example, focussing on maintenance
and rehabilitation of existing social service facilities, before
expansion).   Both the Education Rehabilitation  (FY90) and the Human
Resources Development (FY93S) projects will aim to address these issues.
30.       Women play a very important role in Tanzania's economy by
growing most of the food and finding most household fuel and water. But
their access to development programs is limited, la-gely by tradition. We



- 11 -
plan to prepare an assessment paper on women's potential role in
Tanzania's development, the policy and institutional framework affecting
their welfare and productivity, the strategy and action programs for their
involvement in the development process. The study will be an input into
the Country economic memorandum planned for FY91, which will serve as a
main vehicle for a dialogue with the Government. On the project side, the
Agricultural Research and Agricultural Extension (FY89), Population,
Health and Nutrition FY91, and Smallscale Enterprise FY92S projects, will
all pay special attention to women's needs and issues.
31.       Entrepreneurial and Private Sector Development.  Two decades of
centralized investment planning and extensive Government interventions in
economic activities have suppressed free enterprise and resulted in
activities, technologies and organizational designs unsuited to the
economic needs of Tanzania. There is an active informal sector but the
formal private sector, which had little encouragement, remains very small
outside of the petroleum sector. With the shift from direct to indirect
instruments of economic management, and with the Government concentrating
on provision of infrastructure and services, the future tempo and pattern
of economic activity will increasingly be determined by the skills,
talents and ideas generated by individuals and private enterprises. In
addition to the Government's commitment to the private sector through this
project, we will use our economic and sector work and IFC lending
operations:     (i) to  determine  effective  mechanisms  of  promoting
entrepreneurial activity in the Tanzania environment; (ii) to assist in
the formation of appropriate policies which will provide for equal access
to credit and other services necessary for entrepreneurial development;
(iii) to facilitate the transformation from the informal to formal private
sector; and (iv) to provide resources for private sector investment. The
reform programs to improve the financial and industrial sectors would
facilitate the channeling of financial resources to the private sector.
32.       Environment.   Helping Tanzania to address its environmental
problems is a priority in our assistance strategy. The country is endowed
with a wealth of natural resources. However, the exploitation of these
resources is proceeding largely in an unmanaged and destructive manner.
The key issues include deforestation, soil erosion, wildlife conservation,
and institutional capacity and legal framework. With the help of the
Swedish International Development Authority and the International Union of
Conservation of Nature, the Government is carrying out an environmental
assessment to develop an environmental strategy and an action plan. The
plan will form the basis for assistance by the Bank and other donors who
are expressing keen interest in helping Tanzania to deal with its
environmental problems. Meanwhile, on the basis of what is already known,
the Bank is using ongoing lending operations and the existing work program
to begin and in some instances continue to help to address some of the
critical short and medium-term issues, particularly in the areas of
reforestation and institution building.
33.       Poverty Alleviation.  The extensive poverty which existed in
Tanzania many years preceding its adjustment program is still evident.
Bank efforts will focus on poverty reduction as a major goal, and on the
social dimensions of the adjustment process. We will aim to assist the
Government to ensure that low-income groups have opportunities to
participate in the Economic Recovery Program and that vulnerable groups



- 12 -
will not be adversely affected.   So far, even in the short term, the
measures implemented in the context of the ERP and the related increase in
the concessional capital inflows have been beneficial to the poor. There
have been no visible adverse economic and/or social effects associated
with the ERP.   Deflationary forces emerged from the supply response.
availability of imports and increased competition resulting from the trade
liberalization measures.   Fiscal and monetary restraint coupled with
realistic interest rates have provided a check on inflationary pressures.
Moreover, though more progress is required, higher producer prices of the
main exports resulting from continued exchange rate adjustment and from
improvements in marketing efficiency, have raised farm incomes and rural
purchasing power. In urban areas, food grain prices have remained stable
because of substantial reductions in marketing costs resulting from grain
trade liberalization. Our strategy will focus on those areas likely to
need particular attention during the recovery process including the
poorest groups, women and children, and those expected to be displaced
from public employment in the next phases of the ERP.
Growth Prospects
34.       In the coming years the Tanzania economy is expected to achieve:
Table Ili TANZANIA - GROWTH PROSPRCTS
1990-1995      1995-2000
(annual averages)
Real GDP growth                     4-4.5Z          4-4.5?
Real per capita growth              1.2-1.72        1-1.7Z
Export volume growth                9.5-10.5Z       9-10X
Import volume growth                2.7-3.2?        3.2-4.5Z
Current account deficit/GDP         35-26?          25-20?
Reduced distortions, improved allocation of foreign exchange, in addition
to infrastructural and institutional improvements, should lead to
significant  improvements  in  the  efficiency  of  resource  use.    In
particular, the improved policy environment should lead to: (i) better
utilization of imported inputs, particularly in industry because of the
reallocation of resources away from low and negative value-added
activities   toward   more   efficient   export-oriented   enterprises;
(ii) increased utilization of existing capacity in low import-intensive
activities; and (iii) an allocative shift in favor of agriculture, a less
import-intensive sector.   This would result in sustained positive per
capita income growth; substantial export volume growth, in the short run
from improved performance of traditional exports and later emanating
particularly from increased non-traditional exports and tourism; a
reduction in import dependence; and an improved current account position.
35.       For many years, Tanzania will continue to face large external
imbalances. Thus, the Government's adjustment program will continue to



- 13 -
require an active exchange rate policy coupled with large amounts of
external financing and debt alleviation to support sustained growth. The
composition and terms of external flows needed to support the ERP are as
important as the absolute volume:   (i) the present mix of about 50/50
between import support and specific investments in rehabilitation projects
is appropriate and needs to be maintained, but should be reviewed on a
regular basis; (ii, in some instances donors should be prepared to fund up
to 100 percent of the capital costs of the projects they support; and
(iii) donors should be prepared to finance some recurrent costs for a
limited period.
36.       Agriculture will remain the main source of incremental growth.
However, the country needs to develop other sources of growth and increase
its export earnings in order to achieve its longer term development
objectives. Potential areas include: ti) development of non-traditional
exports, especially mineral exports; and (ii) development of the tourist
industry which hitherto has been inhibited by lack of appropriate policy
incentives and inadequate infrastructural facilities.
Performance Indicators
37.       As  already  discussed,  we  have  identified  key  components
affecting the implementation of the adjustment program.   Inadequate
performance in these critical areas would trigger an evaluation of the
impact on the program and the development prospects of the economy and, if
warranted, a reassessment of the level and orientation of our assistance
strategy. The key indicators for judging progress on the implementation
of Tanzania's adjustment program include:   (i) maintaining an exchange
rate consistent with appropriate demand in the expanding trade
liberalization facility (OGL) and with growth in non-traditional exports;
(ii) maintaining fiscal prudence consistent with virtually zero net
borrowing from the domestic banking system, and beginning the process of
public  expenditure   and  public   sector  management   restructuring;
Ciii) implementing the reforms of the agricultural marketing system in
accordance with the agreements reached in the context of the IDA-Financed
Agricultural   Adjustment   Credit   (Cr.   2116-TAN)   (para 18);   (iv)
restructuring  of  the  financial  sector  in  accordance  with  the
recommendations of the financial sector review and maintaining a positive
interest rate structure; and (v) implementing a rehabilitation program for
improving the efficiency of the transport sector in accordance with the
scope and schedule to be agreed in the context of the proposed Integrated
Roads Project (para. 21).
Bank Group Operations
38.       The Bank's involvement with Tanzania can be divided into three
distinct periods:  (i) from 1961, until the end of the 1970s, when the
Bank  strongly  supported  Tanzania's  overall  development  strategy
emphasizing growth with greater income equality and quickly became
involved in almost all sectors of the economy (by the late 1970s, our
program had expanded to over six projects per year and over US$100 million
in commitments, about 40 percent of which was IBRD); (ii) from 1980 to
1986, when the Bank scaled back its assistance program as the economy
continued to deteriorate and we were unable to reach an agreement with the
Government on the policy and institutional changes necessary to restore



- 14 -
growth; and (iii) from 1986, with the launching of the ERP, when we
entered a third period in our involvement with Tanzania characterized by
improved dialogue and expanded assistance (annual Bank disbursements have
increased from US$69 million in FY86 to US$137 million in FY90). Since
the beginning of this period, we have been incorporating the lessons
learnt from our previous association. Particular emphasis has been given
to develop and implement an integrated strategy between the macro,
sectoral, and project components, with a policy-focused economic and
sector work (ESW) program playing a crucial role (paras 42 and 43).
39.       Lending Operations through end of FY90.  Tanzania joined the
Bank, the Association, and the International Finance Corporation in 1962.
Beginning with an IDA credit for education in 1963, 79 IDA credits and 19
Bank loans, two of these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$2,112.33
million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has
been a beneficiary of 11 loans totalling US$244.8 million which were
extended for the development of the common services and development bank
operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda through their
association in the former East African Community.   IFC investments in
Tanzania have included the Kilombero Sugar Company, soap manufacturing,
metal product manufacturing and the Amboni sisal rehabilitation project.
40.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has centered on agriculture
transport and communications, industry and energy and education and
manpower development.   Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
focusseJ primarily on the rehabilitation and use of existing productive
facilities and the expansion of infrastructure and services (such as power
generation and education facilities) of long-term use to the economy.
Projects have included technical assistance and training for better
maintenance and use of existing facilities and more effective resource
use. Lending during FY82-90 included a Second Petroleum Exploration
Project, a Petroleum Sector Technical Assistance Project, Third and Fourth
Techz.cal Assistance Projects (focussed on key manpower gaps in the
agricultural   sector),   Dar  es   Salaam  Sewerage   and   Sanitation
(Rehabilitation) Project, a Coal Engineering Project, a Fourth Power
Project (hydroelectric), a Port Rehabilitation Project, a Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project, involving rehabilitation of high priority roads
and assistance to the trucking industry, a Power Rehabilitation Project to
restore Tanzania's power system, and a Second Telecommunications Project,
to rehabilitate and improve the efficiency of the telecommunication
system, an Agricultural Export Rehabilitation Project, to improve
Tanzania's agricultural export performance, a National Agricultural and
Livestock Research Project, to develop the national research services, a
National Agricultural and Livestock Rehabilitation Project, to strengthen
the agricultural extension service and cashew and coconut, a Treecrops
Project to improve production of these crops through breeding and
developing of disease-resistant and high-yielding plants, a Health and
Nutrition Project to strengthen Government capacity to deliver health and
nutrition services, a Ports Modernization project to help expand the
physical facilities and strengthen the managerial and operational
capabilities of the Tanzania Harbors Authority, an Education Planning and
Rehabilitation project to rehabilitate the educational system and
strengthen capacity to plan and implement appropriate education policies,
and an Integrated Roads Project to restore Tanzania's essential road



- 15 -
network, restructure and develop the institutional capacity within the
transport sector.
41.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance on five occasions in support of Government
efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties.  The first such
credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, the third, an Export
Rehabilitation Program Credit Cor US$40 million (Credit 1133-TA) in April
1981. Although the Credit assisted in financing much needed agricultural
inputs, the overall economic environment did not substantially change, and
hence the desired recovery of agricultural exports did not take place. A
Multisector Rehabilitation Credit (MRC) for US$135 million, comprising an
IDA and African Facility Credits of US$50 million and US$46.2 million,
respectively, and Special Joint Financing of US$33.8 million was approved
in November 1986.  It supported the implementation of a comprehensive
policy reform under the ERP (para 8).   In order to address critical
bottlenecks which emerged during the first year of the implementation of
the ERP, in January 1988 and Board approved supplemental financing to the
MRC comprising of an IDA Credit of US$30.0 million and an African Facility
Credit of US$26.0 million. The Saudi Fund contributed US$4.0 million in
the form of Special Joint financing. The Industrial Rehabilitation and
Trade Adjustment Credit (IRTAC) of US$135 million was approved in December
1988. Subsequently, the Board approved an additional US$12.6 million for
the operation from 'IDA reflows' as part of the Fifth Dimension.  The
IRTAC operation supports the initiation of the restructuring of Tanzania's
industrial sector and trade reform measures, some of which (such as OGL)
were initiated under the third tranche of the MRC. The most recent fast
disbursing operation is the Agricultural Adjustment Credit, the operation
which supports crucial measures for reform of the agricultural marketing
system.
Table III: TANZANIA - DISTRIBUTION OF BANK LENDING FY86-90
(US$ Million )
Amount
Sector                                   FY86-90              Z of Total
Adjustment Lending Operations            446.1                   47.4
Agriculture                               81.8                    8.7
Education                                 38.3                    4.1
Energy                                    40.0                    4.2
Forestry                                     _                      _
Transport                                267.0                   28.4
Urban                                        -                      -
Health and Nutrition                      47.6                    5.1
Telecommunication                         20.0                    2.1
Total                                    940.8                  100.0



- 16 -
Bank Assistance Strategy
42.       The main challenges  facing Tanzanias'  economy are:  (i) to
accelerate growth by consolidating policy reform and restructuring key
institutions including, inter alia, agricultural marketing boards and the
cooperatives, financial institutions and parastatals; (it) to rehabilitate
key infrastructure and services; (iii) to restore social services (health,
education, water) to the level of development achieved in the 1970s; and
(iv) to address medium to long-term development issues, especially
substantial reduction in its high population growth rate, poverty
alleviation, human resource development and effective protection of its
environment.  The Bank's overall assistance strategy has six major and
closely related components: (a) improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of economic management and resource allocation; (b) reduce and rationalize
the role of the public sector; Ic) reduce sectoral and physical
constraints; (d) develop entrepreneurship; (e) address social and longer-
term development issues; and (f) mobilize adequate external resources.
Vehicles for Implementing the Strategy
43.       Economic and Sector Work (ESW) Strategy.  The planned ESW is a
crucial component of the Bank's assistance strategy to Tanzania. It is
designed to provide the analytical underpinning for the Bank's policy
dialogue on the key ESAP and longer term development issues.   It is
imperative for the Bank to carry out comprelensive analyses, identify
policy options and clearly demonstrate the expeeted benefits and costs of
the recommended agenda of policy and institutional reforms needed to
sustain the ESAP and eventual economic growth and development. The pace
of adjustment in Tanzania is very dependent on the quantity and quality of
our ESW. The recent experience with regard to the industrial sector study
which facilitated the ongoing IRTAC, and the review of the food grain
marketing system which facilitated an important reform of the system,
clearly demonstrated the indispensability of and the payoffs which can
result from an investment in ESW.   In addition to facilitating an
effective dialogue with the Government, donors look to the Bank for
leadership in this important work.
44.       Over the last three years, we have undertaken a number of major
sector studies: (i) a review of food grain and agricultural export
marketing systems; (ii) a transport sector study which focussed the
attention to the Government and the donor community on the issues in the
transport sector; (iii) a parastatal sector study to underpin the dialogue
on the reform of state enterprises; (iv) a review of the public
expenditure to facilitate restructuring of the public expenditure program
and improve resource allocation; and (vi) a number of specific subsector
studies in the areas of trade, tariffs and taxes which are important
inputs into the ESAP. We are completing an economic report, that will
analyze some of the medium and longer-term issues facing Tanzania and set
the stage for the next phase of the reform program. During FY91 and FY92,
we plan to undertake structural studies, and carry out reviews and
assessments of debt management, food security, environment and land use,
education sector, small-scale enterprises, mining, transport sector,
population policy, women in development, and AIDS. These assessmenta and
studies also facilitate preparation and implementation of our lending



- 17 _
operations, both adjustment as well as investment projects. In developing
and carrying out the ESW program, we will aim to make it as collaborative
as possible, and rely on economists from local universities and research
institutions.
45.       Cooperation with the IMF.   Continued close cooperation and
coordination between Government, the DMF and the Bank in the further
development and implementation of the ESAP is clearly critical. We will
continue to work with the Government and the IMF on the preparation of
policy framework papers and ensuring that an appropriate macro framework
is maintained.
46.       Lending Strategy.  The planned FY91-95 lending operations are
directly linked to the Bank's assistance strategy. The five-year lending
program includes one quick-disbursing adjustment lending operaLion each
year, in continuing support of the anticipated policy and institutional
reforms which Tanzania needs to carry out.   The policy based-lending
operations will focus on development issues that are especially critical
to the further implementation of the ERP, as already discussed (paras 11-
32). In FY89, we focussed on trade reform and industrial restructuring
and in FY90, we focused on the reform of the agricultural marketing
system.  We expect our next operations to focus on financial sector
reform, public sector restructuring and on further restructuring of the
industrial sector, in that order.
47.       Complementing  the  adjustment  lending  operations  are  high
priority specific investment operations focussed on rehabilitating of key
economic services and physical infrastructure, and tackling long-term
development issues. We began this process with agricultural services (IDA
credits have recently been approved for research and extension
rehabilitation projects); transport (with Board approval of the credits
for the Ports and Integrated Roads projects in February and May 1990,
respectively) and in health and education (with credits approved in March
and May 1990, respectively). Our five-year lending program provides for
broadening this approach to cover energy, railways, urban infrastructure,
forestry and human resource development, and as needed, to intensify it
with follow up specific investment projects. In designing these future
projects we will focus on projects which help to build and strengthen the
core planning, implementation, management and monitoring capacities of
specific institutions. During the transitional period of three to five
years, about 60 percent of IDA lending would be for adjustment operations.
Thereafter, with a supportive policy framework largely in place, and with
the results of the reform program being felt over a wide spectrum of
economy, IDA lending would begin to shift emphasis to investment
operations as the main lending vehicles, and the proportion of adjustment
lending would correspondingly decline.
48.       Supervision Strategy.  Capacity for project implementation in
Tanzania had virtually collapsed w4.th the general deterioration of the
economy and is still weak, due to shortage of skilled and experienced
manpower and weak institutions. In the short run, our assistance strategy
calls for: (i) project design which takes into account the skills gap;
(ii) intensified supervision effort (we have substantially increased the
amount of resources allocated for supervision); and (iii) provision for
selective technical assistance. For the medium to longer term, we expect



- 18 -
our planned assistance in the public sector management, education and
human resource development to help address this problem.
49.       Aid Coordination Strategy.  Tanzania's adjustment program needs
substantial amounts of external financing well beyond any one donor's
resources. Consequently, the Bank's assistance strategy also focuses on
assisting Tanzania to mobilize appropriate external financing (in terms of
quantity and quality) through cofinancing arrangements, and formal and
informal aid coordination efforts. Tanzania meets the eligibility and
qualification criteria for the Special Program of Assistance (SPA) for
debt distressed countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. We will work closely
with the Government and the donors to translate pledges of assistance to
Tanzania under the SPA into actual disbursements.   The Bank plans to
maintain the cycle of annual CG meetings for Tanzania. The Bank has also
assisted the Government in organizing effective donor meetings at the
sectoral level, including transport, agriculture and energy.   Similar
meetings will be organized for other key sectors. Finally, the Bank plans
to keep in regular and close contact with other donors to facilitate
effective coordination of donor programs.
Stummary Assessment
50.       There is a strong consensus that Tanzania made good progress in
the  implementation  of  the  initial  three-year  phase  of  its  ERP.
Nevertheless, much more remains to be done to address the many remaining
structural issues, and rehabilitate the country's key economic and social
services and infrastructure. Recognizing this need, the Government has
launched a second phase of the ERP, the ESAP, to build on the steps taken
to date. The macroeconomic scenario and Bank assistance strategy outlined
above are based on two critical assumptions: (i) that the Government
continues to move ahead with the economic reform at a reasonable pace; and
(ii) that other donors including the IMF continue to provide the necessary
support in terms of both quantity and quality. This, indeed, does appear
to be the most likely scenario.
51.       However, there are risks to bear in mind.  Although Tanzania
made substantial progress in the implementation of the first phase of its
ERP, the consensus within Tanzania for reform is still tenuous, although
strengthening.    Given the extent of the remaining distortions  and
seriousness of the economic situation, some donors are restive about the
pace of the adjustment program. But the Government is convinced that the
pace is at the edge of social, political, institutional and administrative
feasibility. Government commitment to continue with the adjustment effort
is firm.  The prospects for sustaining the program should be measured
against where the country has come from, its accomplishments to date and
the resolve to continue.
52.       The Bank's assistance strategy as described above assumes the
present pace of adjustment to be an acceptable core of reform.   The
political changes taking place in Tanzania, including inter alia,
President Mwinyi's consolidation of power now as Chairman of the ruling
Party as well as President and Head of State, and the appointment of like-
minded pragmatists in key Government ministries, are providing a window of
opportunity to engage the Government in a challenging dialogue for
broadening and deepening the adjustment process, and the most likely



- 19 -
prospects are for continuing to make progress in this regard.  If the
efforts for a faster pace of adjustment succeed, additional external
financing may be needed, and the prospects are that it will be
forthcoming. If on the other hand, the pace should slacken and render the
program insufficient or in the unlikely extreme, reverse the adjustment
measures, IDA will reassess its assistance strategy, including the
orientation and level of the lending program. Bank assistance would be
limited to a core program of specific investment projects focussed on
rehabilitation of the vital infrastructure and work on development issues
of continued relevance (e.g., road maintenance, environmental protection,
health and education).



- 20 -
II. The Proposed Crpdit
53.       The proposed Credit would be on standard IDA terms, with 40
years' maturity, and would assist in rehabilitation of the petroleum
sector.  The project would be cofinanced by five other donors who are
contributing US$30 million equivalent:   DANIDA, US$2.5 million; EIB,
US$8.9 million; EC, US$6.0 million; Government of Netherlands, US$6.1
million; and the OPEC Fund, US$6.1 million. In addition, the Government
of Italy will provide US$12.0 million in parallel financing.
54.       Sector Background and Strategy.  The Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) launched by the Government of Tanzania (GOT) has led to a major
expansion of output in agriculture and other sectors. However, progress
under the ERP is constrained because transport problems and fuel shortages
have prevented the increased production of export crops and the higher
industrial output from being fully translated into export earnings. IDA
is supporting Government efforts to solve these problems through projects
for rehabilitation of ports and roads, through a rail rehabilitation
project (recently appraised), and through the proposed petroleum
rehabilitation project.   The present petroleum distribution system is
slow, unreliable, expensive and its deteriorated condition threatens the
environment. Most oil products are distributed by road, at several times
the equivalent rail cost. Rail transport of petroleum, when used, is
combined with general goods trains and hence is slow. Lack of investment
funds by the private sector has led to significant deterioration of
physical facilities such as depots, jetties and barges, and in mans cases
retailers have had to cannibalize pumps and other equipment to keep
crucial installations in operation.
55.       The Government's objective in the petroleum marketing sub-sector
is to improve the availability of petroleum products throughout the
country, reduce the cost of supply and improve the efficiency of the
private sector supply and distribution system. The strategy to achieve
this is to reduce the cost of imported petroleum by improved purchasing
arrangements, upgrade dilapidated distribution facilities, make -greater
use of the railways for bulk petroleum product transport, enhance the
ability of the private sector in management of the distribution system.
and ensure a policy framework that would give sufficient incentives for
the petroleum products to be efficiently distributed to places where they
are needed. As the major policy measure to achieve this, Tanzania has
recently adopted a petroleum pricing policy that will avoid subsidies,
generate revenues for the national budget, send users clear signals on
economic cost, and give incentives to private petroleum marketers to
renovate their facilities while maintaining financial viability.
56.       Government has made a number of improvements in petroleum
procurement practices. Petroleum products are now purchased competitively
as a result of their inclusion in the Open General License window and
through the OPEC Fund financing of imports. Crude oil for processing at
the refinery at Dar es Salaam is procured under a collateralized financing
arrangement.   GOT has agreed to arrange for consultants to study and
recommend improvements in the system of purchasing crude oil, the
financing arrangements (currently linked to coffee exports) and the
related coffee marketing arrangements. The proposed project will address



- 21 -
the transport and distribution issues in the strategy, and will place a
heavy emphasis on using private sector companies to achieve this.  The
project will be cofinanced by Denmark, the Netherlands, the EC, EIB and
the OPEC Fund. Italy will finance in parallel the rehabilitation of the
oil refinery.
57.       Rationale  for  IDA Involvement.    The proposed project  is
consistent with the Bank Group strategy for Tanzania, which gives priority
to rehabilitating and modernizing the existing critical infrastructure.
Because the dilapidated condition of the petroleum industry has made the
supply of petroleum costly and unreliable, the rehabilitation of the
petroleum sub-sector is important to the success of the Government's
Economic Recovery Program. IDA's involvement and support would act as a
catalyst to attract private petroleum company investments and donor
cofinancing. It would also ensure compatibility with low-cost options for
the transport of petroleum products to neighboring landlocked countries.
58.       Project Objectives.   The proposed project would improve the
availability of petroleum products throughout Tanzania by improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of the petroleum industry in the country.
This objective would be achieved by reducing transportation costs,
modernizing and rehabilitating the supply and distribution network,
strengthening the technical and management capacity of the related
institutions and developing and implementing an appropriate petroleum
pricing policy. Finally, improvements and strengthening of the storage
and handling facilities would reduce current levels of oil pollution, and
reduce the threat to the environment from spillage and leakages.  The
specific objectives of the project aret (i) to reduce the haulage cost of
petroleum products; (ii) to improve the performance of the oil industry;
(iii) to implement an appropriate petroleum pricing policy; (iv) to
Improve national and transit petroleum trade; (v) to reduce oil pollution
and the threat to the environment; and (vi) to improve the technical and
managerial skills and capability of petroleum industry personnel.
59.       Project Description.  The proposed project would improve the
petroleum companies' ability to provide services throughout Tanzania by
making funds, especially foreign currency, available to the established
oil  companies  and  to TPDC  for high  priority  investments.    These
investments would include: (i) rehabilitation of existing storage depots
and construction of nei depots for petroleum products; (ii) the
modification of existing and construction of new railway loading and
unloading facilities that will permit the use of dedicated "block" trains,
which will carry only petroleum products; (iii) the installation of an
offshore loading facility and the construction of a new petroleum terminal
at Tanga, which will enable Tanga to be used as a direct import point,
thereby reducing handling and transport charges; (iv) the rehabilitation
of existing jetty facilities and repairs to the existing 400-ton barge G..
Lake Victoria; (v) acquisition of much needed equipment and materials,
including 87 railway wagons geared to carry petroleum and LPG,  nd
equipment and spare parts to rehabilitate and modernize the existing
retail outlets of the oil companies; and (vi) the provision of LPG filling
and marketing facilities. In addition to funds for investment projects,
the proposed project would finance technical assistance and training
designed  to  strengthen  the  project  beneficiaries  and  implementing
agencies. The funds for the investment projects would be lent through the



- 22 -
Tanzania Investment Bank ('IB). Because of its weak portfolio and high
level of arrears, TIB is not creditworthy for Bank/IDA lending; however,
its size and experience in similar lending makes it the best suited
financial institution in Tanzania to undertake this job.   TIB will
function as the administrator of the loan, and vill receive a one-time one
percent commission and a one percent service fee to cover the costs
related to this.   Government will accept the credit risk,  and the
beneficiaries will bear the foreign exchange risk. The project would be
carried out over seven years. The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$103.6 million, of which US$74.0 million would be in foreign
currency. A breakdown of the costs and the financing plan is shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and of disbursements, and
the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key
project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in
Tanzania are given in Schedules C and D respectively.   A map is also
attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 8342-TA, dated December 13,
1990 is attached.
60.       Agreed Actions.  Of the actions agreed to between the Government
and IDA, the principal items includes (i) agreement on the principal
features of the petroleum product pricing policy and a system for the
review and adjustment of prices, as needed; (ii) that GOT will arrange for
consultants to study and recommend improvements in the system of
purchasing crude oil, the financing arrangements (currently linked to
coffee exports), and the related coffee marketing arrangements; (iii)
yearly (in September) review of project implementation, oil prices and the
price adjustment mechanism, and progress in the rehabilitation of TRC;
(iv) the establishment and suitable staffing of a Railway Coordination
Committee; and (v) that GOT will either conclude agreements with EIB and
EC by Dec. 31, 1991 for the financing of rail tank wagons and new depot
facilities, or ensure that adequate funds for these are available from
other sources on satisfactory terms and conditions.   There are three
conditions of effectiveness: (i) that Government will sign a subsidiary
agreement with TIB and that TIB will sign subsidiary financing agreements
with at least two oil companies; (ii) that contracts between TPDC and TCR
and TAZAMA, satisfactory to IDA, will be executed on the use, maintenance,
operations and management of railway tank wagons owned by TPDC; and (iii)
the appointment of an experienced Project Manager.   There are two
conditions of disbursement: (i) on disbursement of funds for the Tanga
bulk oil terminal, that the agreement between GOT and the OPEC Fund has
been executed, and that detailed engineering and construction costs,
acceptable to IDA, have been provided for work under this component; and
(ii) on the disbursement of funds by TIB to the oil companies, that a
satisfactory financing plan for the investments to be financed under the
project by each oil company is in place prior to respective di oursements.
61.       Project Benefits and Risks. Availability of petroleum products
in the interior of Tanzania must be improved substantially for the ERP to
be sustained. The proposed project is the least-cost option for making
petroleum   products   reliably   available   throughout   the   country.
Improvements in household petroleum fuel supply (e.g. LPG) will relieve
fuelwood pressure equivalent to 35,000 hectares of natural woodlands which
would otherwise be required to supply equivalent energy on a sustained
basis over a 20 year re-generation cycle.   Principal benefits of the
project are the cost savings to be derived from: (a) direct import of
products at Tanga instead of transhipment by road; (b) bulk transport of
petroleum by rail in properly managed block trains instead of piece-meal



- 23 -
movement mainly by road; and (c) sustained Involvement a.d improved
efficiency of the private companies in the petroleum sector. An important
benefit of the project is to minimize and contain damage to the
environment, which is currently threatened by the deterioratec condition
of transport, supply and distribution network. The internal economic rate
of return (ERR) for the rehabilitation project is estimated at about 26
percent, excluding benefits from transit trade. For the Tanga petroleum
terminal, the ERU is estimated at 15 percent.
62.       Because project preparation proceeded with the benefit of
detailed consultation with and between Government, oil marketing companies
and railways officials,  the risk of delays through misunder,tanding
project objectives and components has been min4mized.   The risks of
procurement delays are limited because the goods to be acquired are either
replacement parts or equipment of standard specification.   Risks that
delays in the 'parallel-financed item (the refinery modification) will
delay implementation of some of the IDA and co-financed components will be
minimized by close monitoring by the project management team in MWEM.
63.       There could be some delay in the implementation of certain
components due to insufficient coordination among the various implementing
agencies (such as the petroleum marketing companies and TPDC) and other
Government  agencies  such  as  the  railway  parastatals.    A  project
supervisory comittee is being established with representation from
Implementing agencies, and a full-time project implementation team headed
by an experienced project manager within MWEM would be providcC  to
overcome this problem and monitor the progress of the project
continuously.   Technical assistance funds are provided to hire,  if
necessary from outside Tanzania, the Project Manager and a Petroleum
Products Transport Specialist with suitable experience.
64.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of Association and recomiend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
December 13, 1990



- 24 -
Scedaule A
TUIA~~~~~~~
PETROLI SECTOxR U     LIST        PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS A1D FINANCIG PUN
Netbuated Costs:
X of
Local       Foreigm      Total        Total
---  (USS million) ------
Existing Oil Industry Facilities
Depot Rehabilitation               10.3           13.3       23.6     22.8
Other facilities                    2.6           10.8       13.4     12.9
New Oil Industry Facilities
New Depots                          6.5           14.5       21.0     20.3
Joint Industry Components           0.2           10.1       10.3      9.9
Other New Facilities                1.5            7.4        8.9      8.6
Technical Assistance                      2.0           5.0        7.0       6.8
Total Base Cost                    23.1           61.1       84.2     81.3
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies              3.8            6.5       10.3      9.9
Price Contingencies                 2.7            6.4        9.1      8.8
Total Project Costs v                    2L2                         l 
11 (a) Where local duties and taxes are applicable, they will be borne by the
beneficiaries and paid in local currency. WNM would recommend to Government to
defer the payment of taxes until the project facilities are fully operative; and
(b) all beneficiaries are operating entities and interest during construction
will be financed from operating income and will not be capitalized.
Financinx Plant                                                  S of
Local    Foreign    Total       Total
<--   (US$ million)- __-
IDA                                -         44.0     44.0        42.5
DANIDA                              -         2.5      2.5         2.4
RIB *                              -          8.9      8.9         8.6
EC *                               -          6.0      6.0         5.8
Government of Netherlands          -          6.5      6.5         6.3
OPEC Fund                          -          6.1      6.1         5.8
TPDC/Government/Oil Companies   29.6           -      29.6        28.6
Total                           ..2-A       2i&      JaLl        JQsQ



- 25 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 2
PETROLEUM SECTOR RUAUILITATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT MNEOD AND DISBDSDMENNS
Procurement Method
Project Element                    ICB      LIs      Other    Total
<------(Us1$ million)---------->
Storage Tanks Materials           5.3                           5.3
(5.3)                        (5.3)
Existing Depot Facilities         6.0                  6.0    12.0
(6.0)                (6.0)3 (12.0)
Existing Other Facilities                              2.4      2.4
(2.4)8  (2.4)
Spares and Consumables                     7.32        2.0      9.3
(7-3)      (2.0)'  (9.3)
New Joint Depots                  3.1      2.5        12.9    18.5
(3.1)                (0.5)   (3.6)
Transport Vehicles                3.3                           3.3
(3.3)                        (3.3)
LPG Marketing (New)                                    5.0      5.0
Tanga Petroleum Terminal          4.3                           4.3
(3.1)                        (3.1)
Victoria Lake Barge Repairs                            1.0      1.0
Victoria Lake Jetties                                  1.9      1.9
Rail Tank Wagons                                       6.0      6.0
T.A. & Project Management                              5.0w    5.0
(5.0)   (5.0)
Total 4                           L.       LA         aLL.  1L%
(20.8)    (7.3)      (15.9)  (44.0)
* Amounts financed by IDA are in parentheses.
1 Procurement for the parallel financed components would be in
accordance with the guidelines of the financing institutions.
2 Items are intended for equipment installed at about 350 retail
outlets, operated by five different oil companies. Per their
established corporate procurement guidelines, they rely on
more than one vendor for price competitiveness.
Proprietary spare parts and components for existing equipment.
4 Including contingencies.
'  Consultancy Guidelines



- 26 -
Schedule a
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENTS
I of expend.
(US$ million)    to be financed
Equipment and Materials
Rehabilitation of facilities (a)      18.8           10OZ of foreign
expend.
Tanga petroleum terminal      (b)      4.5           10OZ of foreign
expend.
Spare parts & consumables              7.3           1002 of foreign
expend.
Studies and project management         3.8           10O  of foreign
expend.
Office Equipment                       0.7           MWEH: 1002 of expen.
TIB: 1002 of foreign,
802 of local expend.
Training                               0.5           1002 of expend.
Unallocated                            8.4
TOTAL:                            44.0
(a)      Rehabilitation of all facilities  (excluding Tanga Petroleum
Terminal and including new depot at Mpanda).
(b)      Tanga offshore facilities and new terminal.
Estimated IDA Disbursementes
IDA Fiscal Year
<------------------US$ million------------->
FY9M FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY9C6 Y97
Annual                       1.3    3.2    9.0   10.5   11.0    7.8  1.2
Cumulative                   1.3    4.5   13.5   24.0   35.0   42.8  44.0



- 27 -
Schedule C
TANZLAM
PEITRILKU  SECTOX REA TILIThUON PROJNCT
Timetable for Key Processing Events:
a.    Time taken to prepare         20 months
b.    Project prepared by           MWEHIPWG/ConsultantsIIDA
c.    First IDA mission             November 1987
d.    Departure of Appraisal
Mission                       May 1989
e.    Negotiations                  May 1990
f.    Planned Date of Effectiveness April 1991



- 28 -
Schedule D
Status Of Bank Sroue Ocerations In TANZANIA                              Page  1 of 3
PFO8R2S - Susmary Statement Of Loins and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 10130/90 - NIS data as of 11/lOf901
Auaunt in US1 Billion
(less cancellationsl
Lzan or       Fiscil                                                        -Undis- Closino
credit No.      Year   SorroNer                         Purcose                        ank         IdA    buried   Date
----__- ------  ---- - --
Credits
*Z Creditsfsl closed                                                                             781.57
C Ol50-TAN     Vs90    TANZANIA                          GRAIN STORAGE & IIL.                    43.00:    20.52  12/31/90(fi 
C10560-TAN     1981    TANZANIA                          EDUCATION VII                           25.00        1.67  12/31/90(R)
C 12290-TAN    1982    TANZANIA                          FORESTRM -II                            12.00        4.08  12131190f1i
C13700-TAN     1963    TANZANIA                         NIUF!NDI PULP&PAPER                      18.00       2.&0  12/31/901R1
C137;10-TAN    1983    TANZANIA                          COAL BNS.CREDIT                          6.30         .17 0630/90iR
C10S0-TAN     1984    TANtiANIA                         POWER IV                                35.00       2.07  12/31/901R)
C1536O-TAN     1985    TANZANIA                          PORTS R8AH.                             27.00        2.82  06130190
C16040-TAN     1985    TANZANIA                          PETROSECTOR.T.A                          8.00        4.08  0630t911R)
CL6870-TAN     1986    TANZANIA                          POWER REHABJ.ENERY                      40.00        5.77  12/31/90
C16980-TAN     1186    TANZANIA                          SIXTH inY. (RENAl)                      50.00      38.27 06/30192
C18100-TAN     1987    TANZANIA                          TELEC.I1                                23.00       8.10  06/30191
C18?10-TAN     1988    TANZANIA                          AMLXPORTS RV. I                         30.00       29.29  06/30196
C9690-TANlS  1989    TANZANIA                            IND.&TRADE ADJUS.CR.                   135.00      76.20  12/31/90
Cl0700-TAN     1989    TANZANIA                          NATL.A6.& LIY.RS                        8.30       7.91  03/31197
C19?40-TAN     1989    TANZANIA                          AGRIC. EXT.                             18.40       16.92 03/31/97
C20500-TAN     1989    TANZANIA                          TR2E CROPS                              25.10      25.50  @6/30/96
CI9j92-TANMSI  190    TANZANIA                           IND.&TRACE ADJUS.CR.                    10.30       11.94  11106/91fR)
*   C20950-TAN     1990    TANZANIA                          PORTS MODERNIZATION                     37.00      41.59  06/30/97
C20980-TAN     1990    TANZANIA                          HEALTH & NUTRITION                      47.60       51.80  06130/96
C21160-TAR(S)  1990    TANZANIA                          A6RIC. ADJUSTMENT                      200.00     153.24  06/30/92
C21370-TAN     1990    TANZANIA                          EDUC PLANNING & RENA                    38.30       41.73  12/31/96
t   C21490-TAN     1990    TANZANIA                          ROADS I                                180.40      201.33 06/30/98
TOTAL number Credits      22                                                                    1.017.70     747.59
Loans
!9 Loansis) closed                                                                  313.06
All closed     for     TANZANIA
TOTAL nuober Loans      0 0
ToTALtJ                                                             313.06    1.799.27
of which reoaid                                                   169.13        33.70
TOTAL held by Bank I IDA                                            143.93    1.763.57
Amunt sold                  .09
of which recald           .09
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                           747.64
Notes:
I   Not vet effective
tt Not vet sioned
tit Total Anproved. Reoavments. and Outstandino balance reoresent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(RI indicates torsally revised Closing Date.
IS) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Aporoved and Bank Reoavments are historical value. all others are uarket value.
The Sionino, Effective, and Closing dates are based uon the Loan Deoartment oftical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



- 29 -
Scheduale D
Status Ot Bank Groan Ooerations In TANZANtA                        Page 2 of 3
PFDBR2S8 - Ust of Closed SALt and Secals
Aecunt in US$ sillion
Iless cancellations)
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                  Undis- Closina
Credit Mo.  Year  farrownr                         Purowse                     Bank         1OA     buresd   ate
C11330-TAN  1981   TANZANIA                        EXPORT REAB.                          .50.00        .00  03/31/83R)
C40240-TAN  1987   TANZANIA                         IULTI-SEC.RH I                        46.20        .00  12131188
C14llo-TAN  1987   TANZANIA                        IWLTI-SEC.RH I                         50.00        .00  1213188
CA0241-TAN  1988   TANZANIA                         NULtI-SEC.RH 1                        26.00        .00 12/1S88
C17411-TAN  1988   TANZANIA                        NULTI-SEi..U  I                        30.00        .05 12/311891Rl
C196511TAK  1989   TANZANIA                         INU4&TRAOE ADJUS.CR.                  12.50        .00 04/10/90
Total TANZANIA
214.70       .0O



- 30 _
Schedule D
Page 3 of S
D.  THE STATS OF IPC IVV=
(as of September 30, 1990) *
investment  Fiscal                          Typ" of       C--------U$$ million-------- 
Number     Year        Obligator          Business      LOAN        TQUITY       OTAL
744-TA     1985    Amboni Ltd.          General Nfg.     5.4          0.0        5.4
410-TA     1978    Highland Soap        General Mfg.      1.3         0.4        1.7
25-TA    1960164  Kilombero Sugar      Food Proc.       4.0          0.7        4.7
460-TA     1979    Metal Products Ltd. HR Utensils        1.3         0.2        1.5
1159-TA     1990    TASCO Sisal          Agribus          2.0          0.0        2.0
TOTAL Gross Commitments                       14.0          1.3       15.3
Less* Cancellations, Terminations
exchange adjustments, repayments,
write-offs and sales                     8.8         1.3        10.1
TOTAL Commitments held by IFC                  5.2          0.0        5.2
Total undisbursed                              2.0          0.0        2.0
Total disbursed                                3.2          0.0        3.2
*     In addition, a loan of US$2.8 million for Tanzania Air Services was approved in
December 1989, but has not yet been signed.



m                                                                                    40         ))GAND
tWAt4IAKIW
RWANDik                                                                                          BU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRLJNtE
/~~~~T  ZA  IAM
/AlR Maij
TANZANIA4
JX                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PETROLEUM
-~DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
\VA  ) E //' }ARO                      A  -                                                                                           w   DSep. w.
.  \\>   y  D    ,-   Mfto a"
ZAI1RE    \t          \     </'I                                                               '        C                                        /    @
t A 0 >/O /<2 | 9 ~~~~~~LIN01<s@#net
INDtAN
OCEAN
ZAMBIA <X  CA
,  ;'  , S 0   .so       00
..  OZAMBIQUF  ~3    omOTm _            so  ion  IS0  200



