Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2202 TA
             (Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 21, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2202 TA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1991, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of Denmark
through the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), a
grant in an amount approximately equivalent to $2.5 million to
assist in financing part of the Project;
      (C)   the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (Netherlands), a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $6.5 million to assist in financing part of the
Project;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Investment Bank (EIB), a loan, in an amount approximately equivalent
Page  2
to $8.9 million to assist in financing part of the Project;
      (E)   the Borrower has requested from the European Communities
(EC), a grant in an amount approximately equivalent to $6 million to
assist in financing part of the Project;
      (F)   the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Fund for
International Development a loan in an amount approximately
equivalent to $6.1 million to assist in financing part of the
Project;
      (G)   Part of the Project will be carried out by Tanzania
Investment Bank (TIB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to TIB part of the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and TIB;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Deve-
lopment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and TIB pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
      (c)   "TIB" means Tanzania Investment Bank, established
pursuant to the Tanzania Investment Bank Act, No. 20 of 1970;
      (d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and TIB, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (e)   "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means any one of the
agreements to be entered into between TIB and the Oil Companies and
TPDC for the financing of facilities under the Project;
      (f)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
TIB to an Oil Company or TPDC for the financing of facilities out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to TIB under the
Subsidiary Agreement;
      (g)   "MWEM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water, Energy
and Minerals;
      (h)   "TPDC" means the Tanzania Petroleum Development
Corporation, a public corporation established on May 30, 1969,
pursuant to the Public Corporation Act, No. 17 of 1969;
      (i)   "AGIP" means Agip Tanzania Limited;
      (j)   "BPT" means BP Tanzania Limited;
Page  3
      (k)   "CALTEX" means Caltex Oil Tanzania Limited;
      (l)   "ESSO" means Esso Tanzania Limited;
      (m)   "LPG" means Liquified Petroleum Gas;
      (n)   "PSC" means the Project Supervisory Committee;
      (o)   "TIPER" means Tanzanian and Italian Petroleum Refining
Company Limited;
      (p)   "TOTAL" means Total Tanzania Limited;
      (q)   "TRC" means Tanzania Railways Corporation established
pursuant to the Tanzania Railways Corporation Act, No. 11 of 1977;
      (r)   "Oil Company or Oil Companies" means AGIP, BPT, CALTEX,
ESSO and/or TOTAL;
      (s)   "RCC" means the Railway Coordination Committee within
TPDC; and
      (t)   "TAZARA" means the Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 33,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (the TIB
Special Account and the MWEM Special Account) in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
Page  4
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2001, and ending October 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2010, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to  the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out the Project through MWEM with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate administrative, financial and
                  petroleum industry practices and shall provide,
                  promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for the
                  Project; and
           (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                  other obligations under this Agreement, the
                  Borrower shall cause TIB to perform all its
Page  5
                  obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
                  shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                  including the provision of funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable TIB to perform such
                  obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
                  taken any action which would prevent or interfere
                  with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit available to TIB under a subsidiary agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and TIB, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, which shall include,
inter alia, that TIB receive a 1% initial commission and an annual
fee of 1% of funds on-lent to the Oil Companies and TPDC, on the
terms and conditions referred to in Section 2.05 to the Project
Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain an appropriate
petroleum pricing system; (b) annually in September, review with the
Association, the overall level and structure of prices for petroleum
products; and (c) make appropriate adjustments to prices of
petroleum products as needed in accordance with the principles
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
Page  6
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account for the Project were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Accounts was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   TIB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that TIB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The TIB Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of TIB to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of TIB or for the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   The EIB Loan Agreement and EC Grant Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by December 31, 1991, or such later date
as the Association may agree; provided however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply, if the Borrower establishes to
the satisfaction of the Association, that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      (f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the EIB or OPEC Fund loans or
                        the DANIDA, Netherlands or EC grants made
                        to the Borrower for the financing of the
                        Project shall have been suspended,
Page  7
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                        part, pursuant to the terms thereof; or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and TIB and subsidiary financing agreements have been
executed between TIB and at least two Oil Companies;
      (b)   the Borrower has appointed the Project Manager referred
to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the agreements, referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement, have been executed between TPDC, TRC and TAZARA.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by TIB, and is legally binding upon TIB in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and TIB and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and TIB in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  8
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister at the time responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 9111
            Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  TREASURY                  41329
                  Dar es Salaam
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.           64145 (WUI),
                                            197688 (TRT) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                        By /s/ Charles Nyirabu
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
Page  9
    materials                                   expenditures
    (a)  for Part B of         3,450,000
         the Project
    (b)  except for           14,400,000
         Part B of the
         Project
(2) Spare parts                5,590,000        100% of foreign
    and consum-                                 expenditures
    ables
(3) Office equipment:
    (a)  For MWEM                460,000        100%
    (b)  For TIB                  76,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated           % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4) Studies                    2,910,000        100% of foreign
    and Project                                 expenditures
    management
(5) Training                     380,000        100%
(6) Unallocated                6,434,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                33,700,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments for
expenditures under Category (1) (a) until (i) the agreement between
the Borrower and OPEC Fund has been executed, and (ii) detailed
engineering and construction costs, acceptable to the Association,
for Part B of the Project, have been provided by the Borrower; and
(c) payments for expenditures under Categories (1) (b) and (2) until
the Oil Company concerned has a satisfactory financing plan in place
for its investments under the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce the haulage
cost of petroleum products; (ii) improve the performance of the oil
industry; (iii) implement an appropriate petroleum pricing policy;
(iv) improve national and transit petroleum trade; (v) reduce oil
pollution and the threat to the environment; and (vi) improve the
technical and managerial skills and capability of petroleum industry
personnel.
Page  10
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rehabilitation and Construction of Depots and Facilities
      Rehabilitation of existing depots and construction of new
storage depots for various petroleum products, and the modification
of existing and construction of new railway loading and unloading
facilities for dedicated block train handling as follows:
            (i)   Dar es Salaam.
           (ii)   Southern Axis at Mbeya and Makambako.
          (iii)   Northern Axis at Tanga, Moshi and Arusha.
           (iv)   Central Axis at Tabora, Kigoma, Mikumi, Dodoma,
                  Mpanda, Isaka, Mwanza, Musoma and Bukoba.
            (v)   Zanzibar, Pemba and Mtwara.
Part B:     Tanga Bulk Oil Terminal
1.    Installation of an offshore unloading facility at Tanga to
facilitate bulk import of petroleum products.
2.    Construction of a new petroleum terminal including rail and
road loading facilities.
Part C:    Lake Victoria
1.    Rehabilitation of existing jetty facilities at Mwanza, Musoma
and Bukoba.
2.    Repairs to existing 400 ton petroleum barge.
Part D:     Railway Tank Wagons
      Acquisition of about 81 petroleum and 6 LPG railway tank
wagons.
Part E:     Rehabilitation of Retail Network
      Acquisition of equipment and spare parts to rehabilitate and
modernize existing retail outlets of the Oil Companies.
Part F:     LPG Marketing Facilities
      Provision of LPG filling and marketing facilities including,
6 filling plants, 8 road tank trucks, 60 bulk supply tanks, 30,000
LPG bottles, 40,000 pressure regulators and 20,000 stoves.
Part G:     Technical Assistance and Training
1.    Strengthening of Project management within MWEM through the
provision of technical support and training.
2.    Acquisition of office equipment for Project management in MWEM
and TIB.
3.    Carrying out studies in the oil and gas sector.
4.    Training of MWEM, TPDC and TIB staff.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
materials shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $7,300,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Contracts for proprietary equipment and spare parts may be
awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditures
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and   terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Page  12
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    The Borrower shall by June 30, 1991, establish a Project
Supervisory Committee which shall be vested with overall supervision
of the Project. PSC shall be chaired by MWEM, include members from
TPDC, TIB, a representative of the Oil Companies, TRC, TAZARA and
TIPER, when appropriate, and shall meet as required but not less
than once a month, to plan and coordinate actions, timetables and
procedures to be followed in implementing the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall assign staff in MWEM to handle the day to
day implementation of the Project and shall appoint a Project
Manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association. MWEM shall prepare and submit to the Association,
quarterly and yearly reports on all aspects of Project
implementation, including performance against environmental and
safety standards.
3.    MWEM shall review all proposals by the Oil Companies for
activities to be financed under the Project and shall then submit
such proposals to TIB for the making of Sub-loans to the Oil
Companies out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    The Borrower shall establish in TPDC a Railway Coordination
Committee to be chaired by TPDC, with membership from the Oil
Companies, TRC and MWEM. The Borrower shall cause TPDC to employ a
railway transport expert to assist the RCC by December 31, 1991. The
RCC shall ensure adequate railway transport capacity for the
distribution of petroleum, to that end, it shall prepare regular
bulk train movement schedules and allocate railway tank wagons in
accordance with such schedules.
5.    The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided the
services of a legal expert on international contracts, to be used by
MWEM and TPDC in reviewing their international contracts with
consultants and contractors in the petroleum sector.
6.    The Borrower shall by September of each year, review with the
Association, the implementation of the Project, which shall include,
inter alia: (a) implementation of the petroleum rehabilitation
program including rehabilitation of the TIPER refinery; (b) the
detailed training program for the Project; and (c) progress in TRC's
modernization program in relation to the implementation of the
petroleum sector rehabilitation work.
7.    The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1991, furnish to the
Association for its review and comments a plan of action for the
studies to be carried out under Part G.3 of the Project including
the terms of reference for the gas pipeline engineering and design
study; and (b) promptly thereafter commence implementation of such
studies taking the Association's comments into account.
8.    The Borrower shall cause TPDC to execute agreements,
satisfactory to the Association with TRC and TAZARA for the use,
operation, maintenance and management of railway tank wagons and
applicable tariff structures.
9.    The Borrower shall ensure that by December 31, 1991,
arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been implemented
for inter-company hospitality, covering all licensed petroleum
marketing companies operating in Tanzania, for the use of all
loading/ unloading, filling and storage assets financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  13
                   Petroleum Product Principles
                    referred to in Section 3.03.
      The principal features of the Borrower's petroleum product
pricing policy are as follows:
      (a)   prices shall cover the costs of imports and
distribution;
      (b)   margins shall be set at a level that will permit
financial viability of efficiently managed oil marketing companies
and retailers. Factors to be taken into account shall include, inter
alia, at least maintaining the marketers margins in real terms;
      (c)   the Borrower shall encourage efficient nationwide
distribution of petroleum products; and
      (d)   timely and prompt reviews shall be undertaken and
recommendations made by MWEM to the Borrower of price adjustments to
reflect external changes in international oil price movements and
currency fluctuations. This will be supplemented by a re-examination
of other costs at least once a year.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) for the TIB Special Account and Categories (3) through (5) for
the MWEM Special Account set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,200,000 for the TIB Special Account and $150,000
for the MWEM Special Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Accounts pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the repective Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special
                  Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association requests for deposits into that
                  Special Account at such intervals as the
                  Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
Page  14
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the respective Special Account such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other evidence
                  to have been paid out of that Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Accounts
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
Page  15
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
