CREDIT NUMBER 2202 TA
Project Agreement
(Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
Dated      /LA+tW     o/       , 1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2202 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                62/           , 1991, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and TANZANIA
INVESTMENT BANK (TIB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three
million   seven    hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 33,700,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that TIB agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and TIB, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to TIB on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Agreement; and
WHEREAS TIB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TIB declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out its obligations under
Parts A through F of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and


﻿-2-
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. TIB shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, TIB shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) TIB shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A through F of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   TIB shall promptly   inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A through F of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TIB of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) TIB shall administer thE pro.eeds of the
Credit being provided to TPDC and the Oil Companies, and shall make
Sub-loans to TPDC and the Oil Companies following the prior
clearance by MWEM.
(b)   TIB undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan shall be made on terms whereby TI
shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and TIB, including the rights set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(c)   TIB shall exercise its rights in relation to each such
Sub-loan in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Association and TIB; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement; and (iii) achieve
the purposes of the Project.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TIB
Section 3.01. TIB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and financial
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. TIB shall at all times operate and maintain its
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative
practices.
Section 3.03. TIB shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TIB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   TIB shall:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts   and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal   year   audited,  in   accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-4-
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of TIB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date 20 years after the date of        this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify TIB
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified


﻿-5-
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           64145 (WUI)
197688 (TRT)
82987 (FTCC)
For TIB:
Tanzania Investment Bank
P.O. Box 9373
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:                Telex:
INVESTMENTS               41259
Dar es Salaam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TIB, or by TIB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
Lly the Gerl Manager o      5-uchk cthner per=  r pZcr.    s   h
General Manager shall designate in writing, and TIB shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /I/    6AJD        V.,<
Regional Vice President
Africa
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
By            AL
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all Sub-loans
under the Project shall be for a maximum term of 15 years including
a grace period of 5 years at an interest rate of at least 9.5% per
annum. TPDC and the Oil Companies shall bear the risk resulting from
fluctuations in the currencies lent to them.
2.    (a)   The amount of Sub-loans for each of the Oil Companies
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be as follows:
AGIP   - $4,600,000
BPT    - $6,500,000
CALTEX - $6,400,000
ESSO   - $3,300,000
TOTAL  - $3,200,000
(b)   In addition each Oil Company shall have a share of the
$6,600,000 allocated for the construction of the facilities jointly
owned by TPDC and the Oil Companies.
(c)   If any of the Oil Companies is unable to use its share
of funds allocated for the jointly owned facilities, PSC may
reallocate such amount to any other licensed petroleum marketing
company for the purposes of the jointly owned facilities.
(d)   These and other unallocated amounts shall be reviewed
by PSC in consultation with the Association, from time to time and
may be reallocated as needed following such reviews.
3.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TIB shall
obtain, inter alia, in respect of Sub-loans, the right to:
(a)   require the Oil Companies to carry out and operate with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)   require the Oil Companies and TPDC to establish project
implementation units headed by experienced project managers;
(c)   require that (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit


﻿-8-
Agreement, and (ii) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project;
(d)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Borrower and the Association, if the Borrower or Association
shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction
included in the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(e)   require that (i) the Oil Companies shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practices, and (ii) without any limitation to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable
by the Oil Companies to replace or repair such goods;
(f)   obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonable request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Oil
Companies; and
(g)   suspend or terminate the right of an Oil Company to the
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Oil Company
to perform its obligations under its Subsidiary Financing Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


