Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3842-BO 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Emergency Economic Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 19, 2003
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3842-BO 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF 
BOLIVA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is carrying out a program to promote its economic 
recovery process and ensure its macroeconomic stability in the aftermath of sporadic civil 
disturbances that escalated since February 2003; 
 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project in support to said program described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
“PCC” means the Project coordination committee referred to in section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR9,800,000). 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Deposit Account. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2014, and ending August 15, 
2023. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2023 shall 
be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the Ministry of Finance with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, legal, financial and managerial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain within its Ministry of 
Finance, at all times during Project implementation, a Project coordination committee 
with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, inter alia: 
 
(i) 
coordinating, monitoring  and supervising the carrying out of the 
Project; 
 
(ii) 
processing the documentation required for disbursement of the 
Credit proceeds and for procurement of goods under the Project; 
and 
 
(iii) 
preparing and maintaining the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in Article IV of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCC is, at all times during Project 
implementation, staffed with adequate professional and administrative personnel, in 
numbers and with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
 
(b) 
Upon the  Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, audited, for the period indicated in the Association’s 
request, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s 
request for such audit: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
period as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01 The date March 18, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
Cable address:  
 
FINANZA 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
By  /s/ Xavier Nogales Iturri 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ John Lincoln Newman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods  
9,800,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; and 85% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
_______ 
 TOTAL 
9,800,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) goods supplied under a contract which the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance pursuant to an agreement (other than this Agreement) with 
the Borrower; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR9,800,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after February 13, 2003. 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to provide urgently needed support for the 
reactivation of the Borrower’s economy and ensure its macroeconomic stability. 
 
The Project consists of the financing of the following emergency goods: 
 
1. 
Agricultural equipment and machinery 
 
2. 
Medicines and medical equipment 
 
3. Gasoline 
and 
fuel-oil 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003. 
Page  11
-
10
-
10
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. Given the nature of the Credit, paragraphs 2.63 
and 2.64 of the Guidelines shall specifically apply. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized 
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Direct 
Contracting
Tractors and other agricultural equipment may be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Post Review
With respect to each contract for goods governed by this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
