Page  1
 
 
Report No. 27478 
 
 
 
Project Name   
 
             Bolivia – Emergency Economic Recovery Project     
Region                         
 
 Latin America and the Caribbean 
Sector                             
 
 Multi-sectoral 
Project ID                        
 
 P087661 
Implementing Agency               
Ministry of Finance of Bolivia 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, piso 19 
Phones:  239 2779 – 239 2220 – 231 6042
 
 
Date this PID Prepared            
December 05, 2003 
Projected Board Date               
December 16, 2003 
 
Project Background 
 
In present day Bolivia growing tensions are apparent among regions, classes, and 
indigenous/non-indigenous groups.  Groups that had been previously excluded are now 
finding their voice, expressing frustration over past governments and their perceived 
ineffectiveness to resolve problems and deliver promises.  Tension have intensified over 
the last decade when stagnant growth, high unemployment and persistent inequality led 
to increasing public discontent.   
This discontent translated itself into an escalating trend of social unrest - with serious, 
and often violent, conflicts in April 2000, September/October 2000, and January 2002.  
Then again, in February 2003, when the Government tried to address the fiscal deficit 
through tax increases, street protests and violence caused the Government to back down 
on its reforms. Finally, in October 2003, yet another crisis arose when resentment toward 
a Government backed natural gas export project led to more violent street protests, 
calling for a stop to the project out of fear from the indigenous population that once again 
the proceeds of the country’s rich natural resources would not trickle down to the 
disadvantaged. 
The Government of former President Sanchez de Lozada acted with force, and in the  
ensuing suppression 76 deaths and hundreds of injured were reported (all of indigenous 
Aymara and mestizo descent). This in turn led the then Vice-President Carlos Mesa to 
dissociate himself from the President over the action, and soon after the coalition partners 
also withdrew their support, forcing the President to resign.  Congress accepted the 
resignation of President Lozada, and in accordance with the Bolivian Constitution, the 
Vice-President Mesa was sworn in as President.  The new President then proceeded to 
appoint a professional cabinet, selecting ministers outside of the traditional parties and 
laying out a clear and manageable set of political and economic priorities. 
Today, stability prevails in Bolivia, but it is uncertain and fragile.  The new 
administration of Mesa has inherited the same socioeconomic scenario that eventually led 
to the resignation of President Sanchez de Lozada and some opposition groups have 
Page  2
 
 
given President Mesa a limited time to resolve problems before launching another round 
of social conflict.   
Project Objectives 
The proposed Emergency Economic Recovery Project has the objective of providing 
support to the poor and vulnerable by making available external funds for critical 
imports, including medicines, diesel oil/gasoline, and tractors.   
 
More broadly, the EERP is in line with the Bank’s upcoming Country Assistance 
Strategy (January 2004), designed to help strengthen governance, accelerate efforts to 
reduce inequality and exclusion, support macro-economic stability and limit, if possible, 
reverse the impact of the crisis on the poor. The typical approach to uncertainty of back-
loading support (implicitly a wait and see attitude) is not appropriate at this decisive 
moment in Bolivia’s history.  There are risks in Bolivia, but it is the opinion of Bank 
management, and the donor community at large, that these risks would be higher if the 
International Finance Institutions (IFI) do not remain actively engaged.  The upcoming 
CAS envisages three main instruments in response to the crisis: 
 
(i) 
The IDA emergency assistance package includes, other than the proposed 
$14 million EERP: a) accelerating to December 2003 the pending second tranche of 
$10 million of the existing Social Safety Net SAC (The tranche release document 
will be distributed to the Board, for its no objection, this month).  This operation, 
which was presented to the Board in June 2003, was conceived as a mechanism to 
protect priority social expenditures after the February crisis and is, thus, 
conceptually attuned with the current situation; and b) to restructure $20 million 
from an existing ongoing operation in the portfolio, the Bolivia Participatory Rural 
Investment project
, 
which would go towards the financing of salaries in pilot 
agencies for civil servant hired through competitive and transparent mechanisms.
1
   
 
(ii) 
New lending (including this EERP);  
 
(iii) 
Reassigning funds from ongoing IDA operations ($5.6 million) to support 
small but visible social investment projects in the La Paz and El Alto 
municipalities; and 
 
(iv) 
Rapid-response technical assistance in critical areas for the new 
administration, notably, the drafting of the Hydrocarbon Law, consultations on gas, 
banking, public expenditure (PER), and anti-corruption (CFAA). 
 
                                                
 
1
 
Currently, the Superintendencia de Servicio Civil (an independent agency) has incorporated to the Civil 
Service 2,474 public employees following the rules of the Civil Service Statute. Only 350 of them are being 
financed by the project.
 
Page  3
 
 
Project Description
 
The proceeds of the proposed SDR 9.8 million ($14 million) EERP would provide quick 
disbursing financing against a list of positive imports, which cannot be provided through 
the existing Bank portfolio or by additional donor financing. 
 
 
 
The proposed Credit would be on hardened IDA terms  - 10 years grace and 20 years 
maturity – as Bolivia is over the IDA income threshold.
  
 
 
Project Implementation 
 
The Government established a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) chaired by the 
Minister of Finance and comprising representatives of all implementing  agencies 
involved in the procurement of goods ad commodities required during the crisis period.   
 
 
Project Timing 
 
The project will finance retroactively Government imports incurred by the Government 
for an amount of SDRs 9.8 M (USD$ 14 million) and is expected to be completed by 
December 31, 2003. 
 
Environmental Category 
 
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental 
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in 
Category C and does not require an environmental assessment. 
 
Benefits 
 
The retroactive financing of critical imports would address the Governments urgent 
financing needs while helping provide political and macroeconomic stability.  It would 
help provide the Government with the needed flexibility in moving forward and 
implementing its short and medium term social and economic priorities.  In addition, this 
credit would constitute a critical component of the Bank’s medium term strategy for 
Bolivia, which will be discussed at the Board on January, 2004. 
. 
 
 
 
Task Team Leader:
  Marco Scuriatti, ext. 39794
 
