Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2621-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDITS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
December 6, 1979
Ihis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance *if
their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -        Kwacha
K 1.00         -        US$1.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2                 0.62 miles (m{)
1 square kilometer (km )                0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton) -                    2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        -  African Development Bank
CTC         -   Centralized Traffic Control
EEC         -   European Economic Community
KfW         -   Kreditanstalt fur Wtederaufbau
M4PTC       -   Ministry of Power, Transport and Communications
ODA         -   United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
OPECSY      -   OPEC Special Fund
SIDA        -   Swedish International Development Authority
TAZARA      -   Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
URS         -   Unitary Railway System
ZIMCO       -   Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited
ZR          -   Zambia Railways Board
GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
TIIIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                    Republic of Zambia
BENEFICIARY:                 Zambia Railways Board (ZR)
AMOUNT:                      US$25.0 million (IBRD); US$15.0 million (IDA); and
US$5.0 million (EEC Special Action Credit).
TERMS:                       Loan is payable in 20 years, including 5 years of
grace at an interest rate of 7.95 percent per annum.
The Credits would be on standard IDA terms.
RELENDING TERMS:             US$45 million would be relent to ZR for a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest
rate of 7.95 percent per annum.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:         The project comprises ZR's investment plan for
1980-83. It provides for renewing 112 km of track
and extending and improving crossing loops; renewing
the Centralized Traffic Control system and improving
the telecommunications system; purchasing loco-
motives and wagons, and the requisite spare parts;
improving maintenance and handling facilities; and
providing data processing facilities, technical
assistance, training, and staff housing. The
economic return on the total project over a 25-year
period is 19 percent at both the official and
shadow exchange rates. The most substantial
uncertainty over the project concerns the expected
traffic growth. However, even if traffic comple-
tely stagnates, the project would still yield an
economic return of 13 percent. The other uncer-
tainty concerns the directional flow of Zambia's
export/import traffic. In the event that more than
presently estimated external traffic is carried via
Dar-es-Salaam (the shortest route), the economic
return would only decline to 15 percent.
This docu_mot has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theif och) dties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:                                          US$ Million
Local           Foreign           Total
1.  Track                                  11.0              18.4            29.4
2.  Signalling and Telecommunications    3.1                 17.3            20.4
3.  Locomotive and Rolling Stock            5.0              51.2            56.2
4.  Workshops and Depots                    1.2               2.7             3.9
5.  Handling Equipment                      0.3               2.6             2.9
6.  Staff Housing                           9.4               1.2            10.6
7.  Data Processing Facilities              0.5               2.1             2.6
8.  Technical Assistance                    3.0               8.5            11.5
Total without contingencies         33.5              104.0           137.5
Physical contingencies               1.2                2.7             3.9
Price contingencies                 19.4              23.5             42.9
Taxes                                3.9             _                  3.9
Total                               58.0              130.2           188.2
Total (net of taxes)                54.1              130.2           184.3
FINANCING PLAN:                                        US$ Million
Total          _
World Bank Loan                                      25.0           13
IDA Credit                                          15.0            8
EEC Special Action Account Credit                    5.0            3
KfW                                                 23.3           13
Japan                                               16.3            9
SIDA                                                13.0             7
AfDB                                                  9.7            5
OPECSF                                                4.5            2
EEC                                                   8.4            5
ZR                                                  50.1 1/         27
ODA2/                                               14.0             8
Total                                        184.3          100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT:                                 US$ Million
(IBRD Fiscal Years)
Bank/IDA 3/                                1980    1981    1982    1983       1984
Annual                               0.25    5.25    14.5    14.0         6.0
Cumulative                           0.25    5.50    20.0    34.0        40.0
1/ US$3.9 million in taxes not included.
2/ Tenative, reference para. 50.
3/ IDA funds will be drawn down first.



- tit -
EEC
Annual                               3.0      2.0
CumulatLve                           3.0      5.0
RATE OF RETURN:        19 percent
APPRAISAL REPORT:      Report No. 2541-ZA dated November 16, 1979






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
of US$25.0 million equivalent and proposed credits of US$20.0 million equiva-
lent to the Republic of Zambia to help finance a Third Railway Project. The
loan would have a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace at an annual
interest rate of 7.95 percent. The credits would be on standard IDA terms.
One credit of US$15.0 million equivalent would be made from IDA resources;
a second credit of about US$5.0 million equivalent would be made from the
European Economic Community (EEC) Special Action Account administered by
the Associat:ion in accordance with the terms of the agreement of May 2, 1978,
between the Association and the EEC. The grant element of the combined
IBRD loan and IDA/EEC credits is 44 percent.  IBRD/IDA/EEC funds totalling
US$45 million would be onlent to Zambia Railways (ZR) for a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace at an interest rate of 7.95 percent per annum.
Additional iinancing has been arranged from a number of external sources.
KreditanstaLt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) is providing two loans totalling US$23.3
million equivalent for 30 years including 10 years of grace at an annual
interest ral:e of 2 percent; the Government of Japan is providing a loan of
US$16.3 mil:Lion equivalent fcr 25 years including 7 years of grace at an
annual interest rate of 4.5 percent; the Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA) is providing a grant of US$13.0 million equivalent; the
African Development Bank (AfI)B) is providing a loan of US$9.7 million equiva-
lent for 15 years including 5 years grace at an annual interest rate of
8 percent; ithe European Economic Community is providing a credit of US$8.4
million equLvalent on terms similar to standard IDA terms; and the OPEC
Special Fund (OPECSF) is provriding a loan of US$4.5 million equivalent for
20 years including 5 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 4 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report on Zambia (1589b-ZA) was issued in December
1977. An updating economic rmission visited in May 1979 and its salient find-
ings are reflected below. The most recent economic data are summarized in
Annex I.



3.        With its mineral reserves and plentiful land area suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia, though a landlocked country, has the potential
for rapid, sustained development. Economic and social goals since indepen-
dence (October 1964) have been security of transport routes to the sea,
diversification from copper dependency, more equitable distribution of income
and expanded educational and training opportunities. Progress toward achieving
these goals has been below potential due to structural imbalances in the econ-
omy which have been exacerbated by the prolonged turmoil within the region.
4.        Despite the high rates of savings and investment, both of which
have averaged 31 percent of GNP since independence, real growth over the last
decade has averaged only 2.6 percent per year, less than increases in popu-
lation currently estimated to be 3.1 percent per annum. Diversification
efforts have lagged; copper mining still provides 90 percent of foreign
exchange earnings and 25 percent of gross value added, while agriculture
accounts for only 14 percent of GDP, the same as at independence. Mean
incomes in rural areas are well below the average per capita income level
of US$480 in 1978 and are estimated to be less than one-third the average
earnings of urban dwellers. This imbalance has caused migration (nearly
40 percent of the population is urban) and unemployment in urban areas.
Increased educational opportunities and construction of the TAZARA railway
through Tanzania to Dar-es-Salaam are the main areas where substantial pro-
gress has been made.
5.        The service and manufacturing sectors have grown at rates of 8-10
percent annually until the recent depression (para. 6). Performance in other
sectors has been generally poor since independence. Manufacturing activity
has provided additional employment opportunities for some urban dwellers but
the sector is still relatively small (contributing 10 percent of GDP), very
capital intensive and heavily dependent on imported inputs. Much of the
growth in services can be related to the country's success in expanding
educational opportunities and to increasing government activity to the point
where the services sector now constitutes 38 percent of GDP. Output in the
mining sector has stagnated, and in recent years fallen, indicating the
economy's extreme sensitivity to copper price fluctuations and increments
in mining costs. Miners' wages are still relatively high and, through demon-
stration effects, continue to impart an upward bias to Zambia's labor costs.
Expansion of agricultural output has averaged 2 percent per year over the
past decade, less than the overall growth rate and well below potential. The
Government has begun to make favorable alterations in agricultural development
policy but the effects are yet to be fully felt.
The Current Economic Crisis and the Government's Response
6.        Since 1975 Zambia has been in the midst of an economic and financial
crisis brought on by a long depression in copper prices and difficulty in
transporting goods to and from the sea. By end of 1978 the impact of these
problems had been severe enough to erase all of the per capita income gains
made since independence. Copper prices fell by 40 percent in 1975 and,



- 3 -
though higher now, are still (mid-1979) only half of their real 1974 level.
These lower prices have markedly reduced foreign exchange earnings and govern-
ment revenues, and precipitated the need for substantial economic adjustment.
Government revenues from minirng fell from K 340 million (53 percent of total
revenue) in 1974 to K 60 million in 1975 and to zero since then. Nominal
government expenditures have been held constant and revenues obtained from
non-mining sources have been increased by about 25 percent. Still, large
deficits, averaging 15 percent: of GDP have occurred each year since 1975 and
had been financed, until recently, largely by borrowing from the central bank.
The nominal value of imports has remained at approximately its 1973 level
meaning a drastic decline (by about 55 percent) in their real values. Even
with the curtailment of imports, large current account deficits have occurred
and have been financed to a significant extent by short-term capital inflows,
notably a buildup in arrears -in import payments (at one point, US$625 million).
Reserves have also fallen and net foreign assets, which are affected by
borrowings from the IM, now equal a negative US$350 million.
7.        Adding to Zambia's difficulties have been problems transporting
imports and exports. After the closing of the border with Rhodesia in 1973,
construction of TAZARA Railway was started. This, when completed in 1975,
altered Zambia's traffic flows such that 75 percent of Zambia's freight began
moving along transport routes through Tanzania to the port of Dar-es-Salaam.
Effective capacity of these routes has recently fallen partly due to technical
and economic problems (i.e., lack of spares, faulty locomotive design, road
and rail-bed washouts, etc.) and partly for managerial reasons. The effects
of the transport problems were so severe that by mid-1978 it was estimated
that 140,000 tons of copper (nearly 25 percent of a year's output) remained
unsold due to the transport difficulties.
8.        The Government's reaction to the crisis, though belated, has been
decisive and effective since the signing of the IMF Standby Agreement in
April 1978. The devaluation of the Kwacha by 10 percent and the opening of
the southern railway route in October 1978 have improved copper exports and
profits. The Goverrment has controlled import values and reduced the rate of
credit expansion and the use of deficit financing. Collections of non-mining
taxes have risen, wage increments have been suppressed and arrears in import
payments have been reduced, perhaps by as much as US$150 million. The effec-
tiveness of these measures coupled with a reduction in copper stocks and an
increase in copper prices (to about US$0.82 in mid-1979 as opposed to the
average 1978 price of US$0.63 per pound), have halted the slide in Zambia's
economic fortunes.
Creditworthiness
9.        Prior to 1975 Zambia's external borrowing was small.  In 1974 total
indebtedness was US$762 million (US$162 per capita) and the debt service
ratio was under 10 percent of exports. Since then borrowing has risen sharply
(over US$1,500 million by the end of 1978) and the debt service ratio has
risen to about 25 percent of exports. Additionally, Zambia has allowed a
buildup of external payment arrears, currently equal to about US$475 million,
and has "borrowed" (purchased) about US$400 million of foreign exchange from
the IMF. With a 24 percent share in debt outstanding and disbursed at the



- 4 -
end of 1977, the Bank is the country's largest creditor, just ahead of the
People's Republic of China (22 percent) and private banks (23 percent).
10.       Although Zambia faces debt servicing difficulties for some time
to come, government officials are aware of the potential magnitude of the
problem and of the requirements for proper debt management. Government
actions over the past 18 months, included tight control of imports, reductions
in payments arrears and continued compliance with the terms of the IMF agree-
ment. The Government has provided evidence of its resolve to deal with the
debt service burden. Meanwhile, Zambia will continue to be creditworthy for
some IBRD lending as well as eligible for some IDA credits. However, overall
Zambia should benefit from higher concessionality in its external borrowings.
We anticipate that between now and the mid-80s, debt servicing (on debt in
existence at end-1978 and on projected new capital inflows) will continue to
claim over 20 percent of export earnings. Thereafter, if projected real
increases in copper prices occur, the figure would fall considerably and
Zambia's creditworthiness enhanced accordingly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
11.       Since 1956, the Bank has made 26 loans and three credits to Zambia
totalling about US$517.1 million (net of cancellations). Thirteen loans and
one credit have financed power, transportation and communications projects.
Four loans for education have helped expand Zambia's secondary and higher
education system, teacher training, and commercial, agricultural and tech-
nical education. Two program loans have helped Zambia maintain its develop-
ment program in periods of severe economic dislocation. In agriculture, the
Bank has provided five loans and one credit for industrial forest plantations,
livestock, commercial crops and integrated family farming and coffee produc-
tion. Other loans have assisted Zambia's urban development program and,
through the Development Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing and industrial
sectors. A technical assistance credit was provided to help the Government
improve its planning and project preparation capabilities.
12.       Implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has proceeded
reasonably well, although in recent years the sharp contraction of the economy
(para. 6) and the resulting shortages and sharp budgetary cuts have had a
deleterious effect on the general progress of most projects. Since the
signing of the IMF Standby Agreement in 1978, budget deficits have been
strictly controlled, and the Government has had extreme difficulty meeting
local cost requirements in some Bank projects. In the telecommunications,
transport, urban and education projects, budget cuts have slowed procurement
and delayed implementation.
13.       To date, IFC has made eight investments in Zambia.  The first, in
1972, was US$1.1 million for expanding the Zambia Bata Shoe Company, Ltd.
Subsequent investments in Bata were approved in 1973 and 1975. In 1975
and 1978 two investments in Century Packages, Ltd. for a packaging materials
factory totalling US$1.1 million were made. An IIC investment of US$550,000
equivalent in the share capital of the Development Bank of Zambia was made



-5-
in February 1976. A loan of $30 million to the Nchanga Consolidated Copper
Mines Ltd. for a cobalt production project was approved on September 4, 1979,
and is expected to be signed shortly.   A summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments, together with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects is contained in Annex II.
14.       The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to (i) diversify the economy to reduce dependence on copper; (ii) narrow the
gap between urban and rural incomes; (iii) develop managerial and technical
skills to accelerate development and reduce dependence on expatriates, and
Bank Group lending reflects the Government's growing emphasis on directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and related activities. A third
program loan is under consideration, subject to the Government's decisions on
appropriate adjustment policies and a medium-term investment program. A
project to expand agricultura:L production in the Eastern Province, through
strengthening extension and marketing services, and providing farm inputs on
credit, is currently being appraised; and a similar project for the Southern
Province is under preparation.
15.       While the Bank Grouip's program will continue to emphasize agricul-
tural and rural development, it also will help improve manufacturing, indus-
try, and physical and social infrastructure. Projects are currently being
prepared for constructing a mill to produce fiber board, wafer board and
particle board, for improving and expanding water supply systems in several
smaller towns and villages, and for extending a second line of credit to the
Development Bank of Zambia.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
16.       Zambia depends heavily on its transport system which must move
sizable volumes of exports and imports (each is 35-40 percent of GDP) and
haul goods within the large, sparsely populated country. The transport net-
work comprises approximately 35,000 km of roads, 2,000 km of railways, 150
airports and 1,700 km oil pipeline from Dar-es-Salaam to Ndola in Zambia's
copper producing area. The internal transport system has mainly developed
in conjunction with the railway which runs approximately north-south,
beginning in Livingstone on the southern border, passing through Lusaka
and then going north through the copperbelt. The bulk of Zambia's external
trade traditionally has been carried by rail, to the west through Angola, to
the east through Tanzania and Mozambique, or to the south through Rhodesia
and South Africa. Recently road routes through Tanzania and Malawi also have
become significant.
17.       ZE' handles most internal rail transport while road haulage within
the country is usually undertaken by private operators at rates influenced by
a parastatal. company, National Transport Corporation. Parastatal organizations
dominate 2xt:ernal transport. Three such companies, jointly owned by Zambia
and Tanzania, control the oil pipeline, the TAZARA rail line and the Zambia-
Tanzania Road Service.  Zambia Airways Corporation, another parastatal,



provides domestic and international services, which link the major cities in
Zambia with other eastern African countries and Europe.
18.       Two problems beset Zambia's transport.  One is the closure of
the Rhodesia/South African and Angolan routes (para. 7) which has also been
exacerbated by management, planning and technical problems. The other is a
decline in transport capacity and the quality of services attributable to
longer term neglect of maintenance and rebuilding needs for the rail and road
networks. The result has been delays, loss of goods and marked increases in
the real cost of transport services.
19.       As government involvement in the transport sector is large, con-
siderable planning and control is necessary. In the short term, control over
external trade is maintained through the Contingency Planning Secretariat
which was established under the President's Office following the border
closure with Rhodesia in 1973. The contingency planners handle the day-to-day
administration of the external transport network and also address the periodic
transport crises that occur as a result of breakdowns, closures, or unexpectedly
large freight shipments. Longer term planning, including allocation of invest-
ment resources, is coordinated by the National Commission for Development
Planning which is responsible for the drafting of the national development
plans and for their implementation. The Second National Development Plan
allocated K 311 million to the transport sector or 28 percent of total public
investment. Investment in the transport sector will be a somewhat smaller
percentage of the total in the Third National Development Plan inasmuch as the
Third Plan places more emphasis on directly productive investments.
The Railway Sub-Sector
20.       Zambia has two separate railway lines:  ZR which runs from Victoria
Falls in the south, where it ties into the Rhodesia Railways, to the border
with Zaire on the north, where it joins with the Societe Nationale des Chemins
de Fer Zairois (which, in turn, is linked to the Benguela line in Angola).
TAZARA, jointly owned by the Governments of Zambia and Tanzania, links ZR and
Kapiri Mposhi, in Zambia's copperbelt, to the port of Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania.
21.       Prior to 1973, about two-thirds of Zambia's external rail traffic
went through Rhodesia and Mozambique or South Africa. The remainder went
through Zaire and Angola (the port of Lobito). These two routes have adequate
capacity to carry Zambia's traffic but are vulnerable to political and other
risks outside Zambia's control. Thus, the decision to construct TAZARA was to
spread risk rather than to respond to insufficient carrying capacity. When
the Rhodesian border was closed in 1973 and the Benguela Railway ceased oper-
ating in 1977, TAZARA was left as Zambia's only direct railway link to the sea.
22.       TAZARA was designed with sufficient capacity to carry all of Zambia's
external rail traffic. Since completion in 1975, however, technical problems
have severely limited its capabilities. As a result, the route via Rhodesia
was reopened to Zambian traffic in October 1978 (para. 7). Although this
route provides a link with East London and other South African ports (the
Rhodesia/Mozambique border remains closed), it is subject to interruptions



from the war and is heavily congested, partly because traffic in Rhodesia
moves only during daylight.
23.       If the Benguela Railway reopens, the Southern route remains opera-
tive and TAZARA's capacity improves, Zambia will have surplus external trans-
port capacity. However, it is unlikely that Zambia will depend on any one
external route, given its lack of control over events in neighboring countries
and its essential need for at least one fully operating route to the sea.
Moreover, the availability and capacity of seaports are important factors in
Zambia's use of external routes.
ZR
24.       Prior to independence, what is now ZR comprised the Northwestern
Region of the Rhodesia Railway. After the breakup of the Federation of
Rhodesia and Nyasaland in 1963 and Zambia's independence in 1964, ZR was born.
Ownership of all Rhodesia Railway motive power and rolling stock left in
Zambia at that time was vested equally in Rhodesia and Zambia (and is still
carried separately on ZR's books). Upon separation of the Zambian portion of
the Rhodesia Railway, most expatriate management and staff chose to relocate
in Rhodesia, leaving ZR critically short of qualified personnel. Since 1971,
a Canadian Government-financed team has helped ZR in staffing, training and
improving operations.
25.       Organization, Management and Staff.  ZR is a parastatal enterprise,
headed by a General Manager who until recently reported to the Ministry of
Power, Transport and Communications (MPTC) through a board of directors.
From the beginning of 1979, however, in a major reorganization, the Govern-
ment announced it was transferring responsibility for most parastatals,
including ZR, to the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (ZIMCO),
the Government's holding company. The Prime Minister is chairman of ZIMCO and
the Chairmar. of ZR is one of ZIMCO's executive directors. The demarcation
of responsibilities has not been fully clarified, but at present MTPC con-
tinues to supervise policy matters, such as tariff changes and new invest-
ments, while ZIMCO provides guidance on operational matters. This new
arrangement is working satisfactorily. The Government, however, is in the
process of preparing a bill for presentation to Parliament in the near future
which would repeal the Zambia Railways Act and concurrently make provision for
the incorporation of ZR under the Companies Act, with the same capitalization
as at present, and with the majority of its shares held by ZTICO.
26.       ZR's four operating departments (i.e., transport, telecommunications
and civil and mechanical engineering) as well as supporting departments and
activities report directly to the General Manager, who is assisted by an
Assistant General Manager (currently the head of the Canadian railway manage-
ment team). ZR's three operational districts, Northern, Central and Southern,
report to the Operations Manager.
27.       Present ZR management is young and aggressive, but dependent on
expatriate staff for senior and middle management and for highly technical
jobs. Total. staff numbers about 8,000, fifty of whom are expatriates. It is
expected that expatriate assistance can be substantially reduced in about



- 8 -
five years, when the ZR training school (Kabwe) and Zambian and overseas
institutions have produced enough skilled Zambian personnel. While the school
at Kabwe is able to train sufficient numbers of lower-level staff, it is not
equipped to produce senior management and technical specialists. Some over-
seas training for junior engineers and technicians also is required.
28.       Track, Equipment and Facilities.  ZR operates 1,273 km of single
track, of which 848 km (Nkana-Kitwe to Victoria Falls) are main line. Although
the Railway has been progressively renewing its track (replacing 80 lb/yd
rails on the main line with heavier rails), at least 205 km of old track is
badly in need of replacement. In addition, there is urgent need to replace a
large number of old wooden sleepers, whose condition varies from fair to poor.
Track conditions cause relatively few derailments, but do force speed restric-
tions on many sections.
29.       Similarly, ZR's locomotives, rolling stock and signalling facilities
are inadequate to meet present demands. The signalling system is 20 years old
and obsolete. (There is no signalling at all on part of the main line or on
branch lines.) ZR has 64 main line and 12 shunting locomotives, but because
six are heavily damaged and spare parts are insufficient, usually no more than
48 are available at any time for service. To supplement its fleet, ZR leases
four locomotives from South Africa. While almost one-half of the Railway's
some 5,900 wagons are in relatively good condition, approximately 2,000 (of
the 3,296 acquired at the time ZR split from the Rhodesia Railways, para. 24)
are more than 30 years old; many of these are older than 50 years. These
wagons are in poor condition and cannot be used for transit traffic. Wagons
also are idle due to a lack of spare parts. Maintenance and repair, in many
instances, is inefficient and subject to delays, due mainly to the lack of
certain tools and machinery, and inadequate diesel maintenance and wagon
repair facilities.
30.       Operations and iAnancial Performance.  ZR's freight traffic over
the past several years has averaged about 5 million tons yearly, but has
fluctuated considerably depending upon the availability and capacity of the
various links to the sea. In 1978, ZR estimates it carried 3 million tons of
local traffic, 1.4 million tons of exports and imports and 0.6 million tons
of Zairean transit traffic. Much of Zambia's domestic and almost all of
its export traffic is connected with copper production. Passenger traffic,
estimated at 1.5 million in 1978, has grown steadily.
31.       Largely due to the loss of qualified personnel in 1964-65 (para.
24), ZR's efficiency declined steadily until 1974, when it incurred a K 6.1
million overall loss.  (The Government offset ZR's losses during these years
with subsidies.)  After that, however, the Railway began to recover gradually,
and has shown a net profit (K 3.7 million in 1978) each year since 1975.
ZR has registered positive cash flows in all years except 1975 and 1978.  A
shortfall of K 4.1 million in 1978 resulted mainly from an unusually large
investment in fixed assets not completely covered by long-term debt. ZR's
liquidity also has steadily improved since 1973. Although liquidity currently
is satisfactory, amounts owed ZR primarily by other government enterprises has
risen to the equivalent of approximately 170 days' revenues.



- 9 -
32.       The Government is the sole owner of ZR, but announced in January
1979 the transfer of its ownership to ZIMCO. In addition to its equity (K 35
million permanent and K 35 million redeemable capital), the Government holds
K 27 million (1977) of ZR long-term debt. The Railways owes another K 8
million in long-term debt to other creditors. Reserves in 1978 were K 30.3
million. These reserves include a "depreciation reserve" to cover replacement
of assets which ZR received at the time it was split off from the former
Rhodesia Railway (para. 24). They are not carried in ZR's accounts since they
are not considered to be assets wholly owned by ZR. However, approximately K
40 million owing from the Unitary System is included in ZR's assets. The
final disposition of the Unitary System assets and its effect on the ZR's
accounts will be determined only after the Unitary System is formally dissolved.
Previous Bank Group Experience
33.       The Bank provided two loans (guaranteed by the UK) totalling US$23.9
million to assist railway development in Zambia during its pre-independence
period. The projects, which were completed satisfactorily, helped to finance
locomotives, rolling stock, workshop equipment and track improvement.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was identified in September 1978 and prepared by ZR
with assistance from the Bank. It was appraised in January 1979 and nego-
tiations were held in Washington, D.C. from October 31 to November 2, 1979.
The Zambia Delegation was led by Mr. B. Monze, Permanent Secretary in the
Ministry of Power, Transport and Communications. A staff appraisal report
entitled "Zambia: Third Railway Project" (No. 2541-ZA, dated November 16,
1979) is being circulated separately. A supplementary project data sheet
is provided as Annex III.
Objectives and Description of the Project
35.       The project comprises the final four years of ZR's 1979-83 invest-
ment plan. The proposed investments are urgently needed to avoid deterioration
in the Railway's operations and to expand its capacity to handle increasing
traffic up to 1986.
36.       The project will provide for:
(a) renewing and improving 112 km of track and extending
and improving crossing loops;
(b) renewing the centralized traffic control system and
improving the telecommunications system;
(c)  purchasing locomotives and wagons and spare parts for
locomotives and wagons;
(d)  improving maintenance and handling facilities;



- 10 -
(e) improving and constructing staff housing;
(f) data processing facilities; and
(g) advisory services at senior and middle management levels
and training at all levels to reduce and ultimately
eliminate ZR's dependence on expatriate managerial and
technical personnel.
Project Details
37.       Track.  The 205 km of track between Mookamunga and Livingstone is
due for upgrading. One hundred and ninety-one km of rail on this section is
30 years old and the remainder 18 years old; wooden and steel sleepers vary
in age from 15 to 30 years. The ballast also is badly in need of replacement.
The project will replace 112 km of 80 lb/yd rails with new 90 lb/yd rails,
renew ballast, replace old sleepers with concrete ones and respace and lengthen
crossing loops. Provision also is made to replace the main line bridge, more
than 60 years old, over the Kafue River.
38.       Signals and Telecommunications.  The existing signalling system on
the main line between Nkana-Kitwe and Livingstone is 20 years old, obsolete
and costly to maintain. It will be replaced with a new Centralized Traffic
Control (CTC) system, and the entire telecommunications network will be
improved. The installation of the new signals and circuitry will be coor-
dinated and carried out concurrently with the track renovation.
39.       Locomotives.  The existing locomotive fleet is insufficient for
present traffic needs. Trains are standing waiting for locomotives, in some
cases blocking yards. The project provides for rehabilitating four heavily
damaged locomotives and procuring, ten additional locomotives to meet the
forecasted traffic levels.
40.       Rolling Stock.  ZR is operating more than 3,000 wagons belonging
to the Unitary Rhodesia-Zambia Railway System. Some 1,000 of these old
wagons have to be scrapped during the project period. ZR needs 1,100 wagons
to replace the 1,000 wagons and to provide adequate capacity to carry the
forecast traffic until 1986. Of these, 185 were delivered early this year,
leaving a gap of 915 which the project provides for. At present, numerous
wagons used to store grain and other goods, are not available for regular
service on the railway. To help with this problem, the Government will have
ZR complete a feasibility study by December 31, 1981 to make recommendations
concerning storage and handling facilities required by ZR and its major
customers, to improve ZR's operations (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
41.       Spare Parts.  The availability of locomotives, wagons, passenger
coaches and railcars is low, principally because of lack of spare parts.
To bring idle motive power and rolling stock back into service, and to
achieve acceptable levels of availability, the project provides for ZR's
spare parts requirements for both rehabilitation and regular maintenance.
To ensure that ZR can obtain imported spare parts in a timely fashion, the



- 11 -
Government has provided assurances that it will take all reasonable action
required for the prompt issuance of import and other permits and licenses
required for acquiring and importing necessary spare parts (Section 3.06 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.       Workshops and Depots.  The workshop in Kabwe, although well
designed, lacks minor equipment and tools, thereby necessitating the high
cost of sending critical items for repair abroad. In order to obviate this
need, the project provides for minor equipment for repairing traction motors
and generators. The project also provides for minor machinery and tools
needed for the motive power, smithy and foundry shops, and for assembling
new freight wagons which will be partly procured in a "knocked down" condi-
tion; and a new wheel lathe with a higher capacity.
43.       At present, the Kabwe depot for running maintenance of diesel loco-
motives does not have sufficient capacity and locomotives have to be sent to
the Kabwe workshop for service. Furthermore, the ceilings of the depot, which
is an old steam locomotive shop, are too low to carry out exchange of heavy
locomotive units conveniently. Present working methods are thus inefficient
and costly. To improve maintenance and reduce costs, the project provides for
extension of the depot.
44.       The tracks for wagon repair are in the open air, primitive and of
low capacity. Wagon repairs cannot be done for long periods during the rainy
season, resulting in reduced wagon availability. The project provides for
rebuilding the repair tracks at Ndola, Kitwe, Kabwe and Livingstone by laying
the rail on concrete slabs, roofing over the tracks, and equipping the working
area with small cranes.
45.       Handling Equipment.  ZR is short of equipment for loading and un-
loading wagons, resulting in the wagons remaining at the terminals longer
than necessary and thus reduced wagon utilization. The project provides for
handling equipment at major stations to improve wagon utilization.
46.       Staff Housing.  Most of the employees live along the rail line, in
small villages or in the bush, in houses ZR owns. ZR also provides housing
for its employees at its head,quarters at Kabwe. No improvements have been
made to these facilities for a number of years and to retain its staff, ZR
needs to increase and improve its housing stock. The project will provide
for improvements to the existing housing stock and for a limited amount of new
staff housing. Most of the new staff housing, comprising four-room cottages,
is for lower level staff.
47.       Technical Assistance and Training.  Until trained Zambian staff
can take over all operations, ZR will need expatriates either in executing
positions or as advisers. The project provides for 190 man-years of tech-
nical assisi:ance which inclucles consultants needed for a productivity study
at the Kabwe workshop, for a railway electrification feasibility study, for a
study to determine whether the railway line between Mulobezi and Livingstone
should be upgraded or replaced by a road and for improving the planning
capability of MPTC and ZR. ZR has agreed that the qualifications, experience
and terms of reference of the consultants would be acceptable to the Bank



- 12 -
Group (Section 2.04 of the draft Joint Project Agreement). The project also
includes overseas and local training for senior and middle level managers,
and equipment and materials for the Kabwe training school to improve the
training of skilled lower level staff. ZR has about 50 expatriates at senior
and middle management levels who gradually will be replaced over the next ten
years. During the project period, ZR expects to train 15 local staff to fill
some of these positions, and it will provide the Bank Group with a detailed
training program for senior and middle level staff as a condition of loan
and credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
48.       Projects costs are estimated at about US$188.2 million, of which
US$130.2 million would be the foreign exchange component (69 percent).
Local costs would amount to about US$58.0 million (31 percent), including
US$3.9 million in taxes and duties. The cost estimates are based on recent
quotations and bids for similar materials and equipment, updated to 1979
prices. A physical contingency of 25 percent has been provided for replace-
ment of the Kafue Bridge, since only preliminary studies have been done so
far. Quantities for the other items can be considered as fixed. Price
contingencies have been provided as follows: for materials and equipment,
1980 onward - 6 percent; for local costs, 1980 - 15 percent; 1981 - 10 percent
and 1982 onward - 7 percent. The staff month cost of advisory services is
approximately US$2,300 and for consultant's services, about US$8,000.
49.       External financing will meet the project's foreign exchange costs
(US$130.2 million) and part of its local costs (US$4.0 million) with ZR
providing the remaining local costs (US$54.0 million) from its internal
resources. The proposed Bank Group financing of US$40 million (US$25.0
million IBRD/US$15.0 million IDA) will cover 21 percent of the project's total
financing. The IBRD loan will be repaid over 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at an annual interest rate of not less than 7.95 percent; the IDA
credit will be on standard terms. A US$5.0 million credit, administered by
IDA, will be provided from the EEC Special Action Account in accordance with
the terms of the Agreement of May 2, 1978 between IDA and the EEC. The loan
and credits will be onlent to ZR, under a subsidiary loan agreement, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group; these will include an annual
interest of not less than 7.95 percent and repayment in 20 years, with 5 years
of grace (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). ZIICO/
ZR will bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution of the subsidiary loan
agreement is a condition of effectiveness of the agreements relating to the
proposed loan and credits (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Bank Group financing and EEC Special Action Credit will
provide all of the foreign exchange costs of track improvement (except for the
Kafue bridge) and related plant and machinery, and telecommunications equip-
ment, and part of the foreign exchange costs of wagons, spare parts, work-
shops, data processing facilities and technical assistance.
50.       Additional external financing (US$75.2 million) has been firmly
arranged, on a parallel financing basis, from the following sources: KfW
(US$23.3 million); Japan (US$16.3 million), SIDA (US$13.0 million); AfDB



- 13--
(US$9.7 million), EEC (US$8.4 million), and OPECSF (US$4.5 million). In
addition, ODA has expressed a strong interest in providing about US$14.0
million equivalent for rehabilitating the Kafue Bridge, but is not in a
position to make a firm commitment until a current review of available funds
is completed,expected to be around April 1980. This schedule is acceptable
since work on the Bridge carnot start until 1981, following the completion
of design and engineering studies (also financed by ODA), currently in pro-
gress. Hence, effectiveness of all external financing agreements, except
for the ODA agreement, will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
IBRD loan and IDA credit (Section 5.0l(b) of the Draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Implementation
51.       ZR will implement the project through its existing operational
staff, supplemented by project-financed technical assistance. To measure
progress in meeting anticipated improvements in ZR's efficiency and produc-
tivity, ZR has agreed to a comprehensive set of operational targets for 1982
and 1984 (Section 3.05 of the draft Joint Project Agreement). The major goals
include: (i) increasing average diesel locomotive availability from 63
percent in 1978 to 70 and 75 percent in 1982 and 1984; (4i) improving average
wagon availability from 80 percent to 85 and 90 percent during the same
period; and (iii) reducing turnaround time for wagons carrying freight and
minerals by an average of two days between 1978 and 1984. As a result,
overall productivity per available wagon per year should increase from 240
ton-km to 300 ton-km in 1984, and staff productivity--as measured by 1,000
traffic units (ton-km plus passenger-km) per employee--will improve from 214
to 250 by 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Equipment and material financed by the Bank Group will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines, except for (i) small orders for under US$50,000 each, but for not more
than US$500,000 in total; and (ii) critical spare parts, expected to cost
about US$3 million, which are available only from the original equipment
manufacturers. These items will be procured through selective competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. Equipment financed under
the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement will be procured in accordance with
provisions in the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement which limits bidding
to EEC member countries and IDA member countries eligible to receive Special
Action Credits. Goods and services financed by the other external financing
agencies will be procured according to the standard procedures of these
institutions.
53.       Bank Group funds will be disbursed for (i) 100 percent of foreign
exchange costs or 75 percent of local expenditures for track materials,
telecommunications, equipment, wagons, spare parts and workshop and related
equipment, and (ii) 100 percent of foreign exchange costs for data processing
facilities, technical advisory services, staff training and studies. EEC
funds will be disbursed for 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs or 75
percent of the local costs for telecommunications equipment for ZR's Southern
district.



- 14 -
Financial Covenants
54.       In general, ZR has operated profitably, although for a period in
the early 1970s it suffered net losses (para. 31). While the Government
provided the necessary funds during the years of operating losses, this
practice in general does not encourage financial discipline. In the future,
government payments to ZR will be limited to those services which ZR performs
at the Government's direction (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). While ZR's liquidity has improved steadily during 1973-77, the
amounts owed to ZR, primarily by other parastatals, have increased to the
equivalent of approximately i70 days revenues. The Government and ZR will
undertake to reduce the amount of ZR's accounts receivable to the equivalent
of 45 days' revenue by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.03 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and Section 4.06 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Furthermore, to ensure that ZR's cash flow during project implementation is
not impaired, it will consult with the Bank Group whenever investments in
any one year beyond those included in the proposed project are estimated to
exceed US$2.0 million (Section 4.03 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
Regarding its overall debt position, ZR will not incur any further debt
unless its operating surplus for the fiscal year, or the twelve consecutive
months immediately before the date of occurrence (whichever is greater), is
at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements of any succeeding
year (Section 4.04 of the draft Joint Project Agreement).
55.       At present ZR's assets are valued on a historical basis, and con-
sequently their true replacement cost is unknown. To permit a more accurate
assessment, ZR will revalue its assets at current replacement cost, effective
January 1, 1981, and at annual intervals thereafter (Section 4.05(ii) of the
draft Joint Project Agreement). ZR expects to generate sufficient revenues
to meet operating costs (including depreciation), debt service charges, and
to finance approximately 30 percent of its future capital development program.
To achieve this level of income, ZR will need to set tariffs to earn an 8
percent rate of return on assets in 1980 (valued on an historical basis).
Thereafter ZR will be expected to earn an 8 percent return on revalued assets,
provided, however, that if this return appears to yield a cash flow in excess
of ZR's requirements, a revised return will be agreed upon mutually between
the Government, ZIMCO, ZR and the Bank Group (Section 4.05 of the draft Joint
Project Agreement).
Project Justification
56.       The project's benefits depend primarily on two factors:  the growth
of future traffic and the distribution of Zambia's external rail traffic
between the Lobito, Dar-es-Salaam and the southern routes. Freight traffic
is estimated to increase from 5.0 million tons in 1978 to 6.3 million in 1989,
an annual growth rate of just over 2 percent (which is consistent with a pro-
jected 4 to 5 percent annual increase in real GNP). Local traffic (64 percent
of existing traffic), and export and import traffic (21 percent) will account
for most of this growth, while Zairian transit traffic (15 percent) is fore-
cast to decline with the reopening of the Lobito route. Passenger traffic is
expected to continue to grow steadily (4 percent annually) during the project



- 15 -
period. The directional breakdown of ZR's external traffic, although aver-
aging only 21 percent of tota:L traffic, is important because of the large
differences in the lengths of the various routes. The project assumes that
25 percent of ZR's external traffic will travel via the Lobito route (an
average import/export haul of 50 km on ZR's track), 33 percent via the
southern route (about 700 km) and 42 percent via Dar-es-Salaam (about 160 km).
Based on these assumptions, the project will have an overall economic rate of
return of 1S percent. Separate evaluations for (a) spare parts, workshops and
depots, (b) track, signalling, telecommunicatons, and handling equipment, and
(c) locomotives and wagons, show that each group yields an economic return
exceeding 20 percent. The economic analysis assumes that without the project,
an increasirLg amount of general goods traffic will be hauled by road at a
higher cost (K 0.05 vs  K.0.2 per ton/km).  This is a conservative estimate
of benefits, since it is unlikely the road network could carry the additional
traffic without substantial improvements.
57.       The Project will have an important impact on the Zambian economy
beyond the improved profitability and efficiency of ZR. Without it, the
capacity of the rail network will decline, causing a sizable amount of local
and external traffic to be hauled by road at a higher cost. This would
adversely affect Zambia's manufacturing and industrial sectors, which depend
heavily on imported intermediate goods. Moreover, the project forms an
important part of Zambia's program to remove the transportation bottlenecks
which have constrained its economic development over the last decade.
Risks
58.       The project's major risks involve shortfalls in estimated traffic
growth or unexpected shifts iLn the directional flow of Zambia's external rail
traffic.  Sensitivity analysis shows that even with a complete stagnation in
the level of traffic (the project assumes 2 percent annual growth), the
project will have an acceptable economic return of 13 percent. If ZR's
external traffic pattern var-ied from that assumed in the project (25 percent
via Lobito, 33 percent via the southern route, and 42 percent via Dar-es-
Salaam), the returns would still be satisfactory. At present the Lobito
route is closed, and given tlhe backlog of traffic and major repairs required
on the line, it will be some time after the route opens before Zambia could
move more than 25 percent of its external traffic through Lobito. A more
likely possibility would be an increase in the amount of external rail traffic
hauled via Dar-es-Salaam. While TAZARA has the capacity to handle all of
Zambia's external traffic, problems along the line and with the port facili-
ties at Dar-es-Salaam, plus Zambia's reluctance to entrust all its external
traffic to one rail route, make it unlikely that more than 60 percent of
ZR's external rail traffic will be carried via TAZARA. Assuming that TAZARA
accounts for 60 percent of ZR's external traffic, and the other routes 20
percent each, the project's economic return will be 18 percent. If Tazara's
traffic increases to 80 percent, with the remaining traffic split between
the other routes, the return would be 15 percent. A combination of traffic
stagnation and a drastic change in the directional break-up of the external
traffic would decrease the return to below 10%.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Zambia and the
Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Zambia
and the Association, and the draft Special Action Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Zambia and the International Development Association, as Admin-
istrator of the EEC Special Action Account established with funds contrihjated
by the member states of the EEC and the draft Joint Project Agreement among
the Association, the Administrator, the Bank, ZR and ZIMCO, are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. Also being distributed
separately are the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the Recom-
mendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.  Conditions of effectiveness of the agreements relating to the
Credits and the Loan include execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Republic of Zambia and ZR, submission to the Association by ZR of a
detailed training program for ZR senior and middle level staff, and a cross
effective condition with the other external financing agreements, excluding
the ODA agreement. (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and the proposed IDA Credit
would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association,
respectively, and that the proposed Special Action Credit would comply with the
criteria established by the Agreement dated May 2, 1978 among the Association
and the EEC and its member states.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 6, 1979



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1
ZAMEIA - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMBWA                      REFERENCE GROUPS  0ADZSSTZD AYE14AS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. K2.1                      LA                             - MOST RECENST  sTrATE) -
TOTAL             752.6                                                      SAME         ik4E      NE:tS UCdER
ACRIC8LTURAL      350.1                                   MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHtC    I24COKE       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb        REGION /C   GROUP /d    GROUP ;e
GNP PER CAPITA  iUS$I                   190.0       320.0    4S0.0              306.1       .67.5       1097.7
ENERGY :ONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMIS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..        495.0      548.0             80.6       262.1        730.7
POPULAT-ON AND VI T AL STATISTICS
POPUL4TION, MID-TEAR (MILLIONS)        3. 1         4.2        5.1
UR8AN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.0           30.0       34.0             17.1        24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION LN YEAR 2000 (NILLIONS)                          10.0
STATIONARY POPULArION (MILLIONS)                            29.0
TEAK STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2130                  .
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IM.                          4.0          6.0        7.0             18.4        45.3         44.6
PER SQ. icm. AGrICULTURA.L LAND      9.0         12.0       15.0             50.8       149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCrURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           47.1         46.3       46.5             44.1        45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                           50.5         51.5       50.9             52.9        51.9         55.3
63 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.4          2.2        2.6              2.8         2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.8        3.1              2.7         2.7          2.4
UR8A.9                                ..          5.4        5.4              5.7         4.3          4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.0          50.0      50.0             46.3        39.4         31.1
CRLDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.0          20.0      17.0              17.2       11.7          9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..         3.3        3.4              3.1         2.7         12.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..               ..        13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NTTR'T.ON
ENDE2 OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           103.8         95.0      106.0             94.3        99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
PEQUIREMENTS)                     E0.0         84.0      90.0              89.5        94.7        105.0
PFRTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            55.3         59.2       58.8             55.8        54.3         64.4
CIF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.5         16.3       16.5             17.9        17.4         23.5
CIlLE (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       36.0         29.0       23.0             22.3        11.4          8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0           43.5       48.0             47.0        54.7         60.2
INFAIT .0ORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSA.UD)                              ..        144.0         ..               ..        68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUl.ATtON )
TOT'AL                                ..         37.0       .2.0             20.3        34.4         60.8
UR.AN                                 ..         70.0       a6.0             53.9        57.9         75.7
RUIAL                                 ..         22.0       16.0             10.1        21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXC?ETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         16.0       42.0             22.5        40.8         46.0
URIAN                                 *.         12.0       87.0             62.5        71.3         46.0
RM;AL                                 ..         18.0       16.0             13.9        27.7         22.5
POPULATION ?ER ?HYSICIAN           12860.0      13530.0   :0370.0          17424.7       6799.4       2262.4
POPW..ATION PER  VURSING PERSON     9950.0/f   2430.0          ..           2506.6       1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPtTAL RED
TOAL                              350.0/f      320.0      250.0            502.3       726.5        453.4
URIIAN                                * *.                 280.0            201.4       272.7        253.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..           1403.6      1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSI0NS ?ER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..      300.0             Z3.4        27.5         22.1
AVERAGE ;ZE OF HOUSENOLD
TO'7AL                                            4.4                         4. 9        5.4          5. 3
URB3AN                                ...                      .4.9                       s.:          3 .2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        4.6              5.5         5.5          5.4
AVERAGE NUM3ER Or PERSONS PER ROOM
TOAL                                 .-         2.6         .-                ...1.9
LURAN                                             2.6         *. -             * *.                    1.9
RLUAL                                 ..          2.6                                                  2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF D;JELLINGS)
.CO; A L                            2. 7. S                                               81          50. 0
LILIAN                              27.'5          ..         .                 .        45.1         71.7
RU*(AL  ..  ..         ..               ..         9.9         17.3



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                               Page  2
ZA.f2EA - 30C:.L tDIf'D-;:RS DATA SHEZT
MAMIA                       RE iERLNCE vROUPS (A.DJVS:D A4`EPAGCL
- ItOSt RECENT ESTI.A:E) 
SAME         SAE    :iEC  .i:CEa
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    LNCOtLE         LiCOtIE
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   CROUP /d    CROUP /I
DUCATION
A STED  :.RoULL.ENT RATIOS
PRARY:        TOTAL                  48.0         72.0       95.0              59.0        82.7         102.5
MALE                   58.0         80.0      103.0              64.2        87.3         108.6
FMALE                  38.0         64.0       86.0              44.2        75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    1.0          12.0       15.0              9.0        21.4          33.5
MALE                    2.0         16.0       20.0              12.0        33.0         38.4
FDUILE                  1.0          8.0       11.0               4.4        15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z Of SECONDARY)  28.0              3.0        4.0               7.0         9.8         11.5
NUPIL-TZACHER RATIO
PRIMAPY                              50.0         47.0       48.0              42.2        34.1          35.8
SECONDARY                            14.0         21.0        21.0             22.9        2-3.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           28.5/E       47.3       39.0              20.8        54.0         64.0
CONSU1KPT!ON
PASSENGiR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           11.0         14.0        18.0              4.0         9.3          13.5
LADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            9 OLs       18.0       20.0              tt.3        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPlJLATION                            ..          4.0        5.0               2.9        13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAtLY GENERAL
rNTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     7.0          13.0       22.0              5.6         18.3         40.0
CINWENA ANNUAL ATTENDA.ICE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..              0.4          2.5          3.7
-     LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)             ..       1160.0    1310.0
FE.4LE (PERCENT)                     33.7         33.0       32.5              31.9        29.2         25.0
AGRICULTLRE (PERCENT)                78.7         J2.8       69.0              77.6        62.7          43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    7.0          8.8       11.0               7.9        11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  40.4          38.9       37.6             40.S        37.1          33.5
IALE                                    54.1         52.7       51.3             53.9         48.3         48.0
FEMALE                                 26.9       _ 25.3        24.2             25.6        20.4          16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   ..          1.8        1.9               1.2         1.4          1.4
INCO'1E DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LNCOME
RECEIVED BY
liItHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSE!IOLDS   33.7             ..      23.0                ..        15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2               ..      63.0                ..        48.2          52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS    5.4               ..       3.8                ..         6.3           3 9
LOWEST 40 FERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0              ..       10.1                ..        16.3          12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIXATED ABSOLli. POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CA?ITA)
URBAN                                  ..            ..     213.0             187.6       241.3        270.0
RURAL                                  ..            ..     145.0              96.8       136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
CRBAN                                  ..           ..         ..             138;4       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                  ..            ..     154.0              71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTItATED POPULA71ON BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
CREAN                                  ..            ..      25.0              34.5        24.8         20.5
RL'AL                                  ..           ..         ..              48.7        37.5         35.-3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicacor are population-weighted geometric means, excluding cte extrene
.alues of the Indicator and the most poxulated country Ln each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availabilIty of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless ocherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to ang vear betweet  1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
nd 1971; and for Most Recent RstAmace. bet neen 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   Id  Laver Xiddle Income  (5291-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  19e3;  ZI  Data for Rhodesia and Malawi included.
aost Recent Estimate of CNP per capitr is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANN4EX I
OZOMI   OF xiAL NDICTORSPage  3
lot..:  Althoughb the data ar  Arso  fra  -oce  Ss-ally judged the  -.st -tioritati-  and reliable, it should also h. noted tint they   y not he inter.-.
tieally  cqr bie -btas  of the lok of stndordl.ed definition   and conep. used hy different co-tries In colleting the dat.. The iota  nn ontees
as.efua to desoAbn orer, of wApitude, indicate trends, sad cheracterine certain mjor differece betenen ~ocatrie..
Th   d ute    -p ng:s for nob indicatr  -r  Ppopftio-neig9ntd geostric senn, encldlag the ectrese ta.ons.of the indicator and the  -et populated
c-utrjiiiE,gtu71              ito las  of data, getup avrgsof anleiatr  ftc Capital horplus iii 1Snortere nod of  odhoatove of Access to Wetec and cet
Disposal, H-n Log, Lncom   Dletribution  nod P.-ery for other oteIc  groups a-  popoltic-nigbted  sentric  -in  titbht enoluion  of the not-n   -nlIne sod
the acet p;InsLuted  otontry.                         ofci-ris              ietniatrsdpedso  no              taili of  ata and he   t    if_es.cauion is  be eceriend
inrlaig ausrn    of me Ui       tor an    r.&"   O Fe onenes   nc Iatrueuaspp sittso    cetdn-leshecsnigter e.foe
indiontoratatine  mom the centr  and refrence grmpl
IAMb AOoA Ci(th ead aq.i.)                                                                    Ace. lo srenDissel(cta  o   oualn t1.-toa. rs    nda-n -
otl-Putt, surfac.ae  copiin ed area and inland wher                                       loieo   epelne,ubn   n   a-l   evdb   aet   iP%el
hAriv,fltocal -  taDt recent esthete  of agnicltns-sl are  uend tin.prarily                    pe...atagen of their repective ppolatione. Eo-rta disposalI my inclode
or perme,itly for crepe, pstun-n, naket and hitchs gsrdns or to                             tie colletion sad disposal, nith or cithcut tceatant, of nasa noveete
lie  faflo                                                                                  an   aseeae  by  -aterb-hoa    ypste    or the den of pit privienso  c.nlba-
larP miR CAPITA (USj) - G3? per osit  etisate   at current arht p Ice,                           ioetgg   tivpo...    u    - Pnpolaticn d idtid by nu rof pr-ti-cig phpeicia-
eslculstd h1n-  en convrsion sthd as rlden   lnk Atlas (1916-T'8b baIs);              j6UlU1hB                  lshool at uiversity bete.
1960, 1970, sod 19r8 dOt..                                                                  p lto    e   rin& Pen-eo  -  P.Wl.tion divided by outer of pr-tiviog sale
mE~1C53oliPrIs WiCAPiTA  -  nnual coesaptiunof tamertal en-te-0          and falegAradt   oen,patical nun-see, nod aitisnotnus.
{Fhil7iiiWijpsite5  p TrAle   naua A nan s drhm--   ie           tgt                   auahnpeIootlfe    totl. o-a  an"ua                              tpuato   (Itotl. urino,
ihealee triiy   hohbgs             oa   qiaetpr  aia   po                               a  rural  dividd by  bthir r-pectv   ente   of hoptlbeds availble  it
1970, end 1976 data.                                                                           noblic and pricate general and speciliced hcstpita1 and rca-iainete-c
Il-pitals a-c ntahlishntnt   pees"'ently staffed by at tenet one physician
POPULATION ANi VITAL STATISTICS                                                                  Establisharate  providing princI pally custodial vayae  not included. hon-al
Total Pcplaiinn,   d-lean- iilliona) - h f JulY 1; 1960, 1970, and                 h-epitals  hovevr, inolude health sad adical centers a ohpessentlysnartled
19177 daaby a physician  (but by a aedical asistant, nus,adeife, etc.) cthio . offe
Inb-haPclin             etBoeotl  - tio of urhan to total puplatio;                            in-patient actdatioa  sad provide a lisitd r-ge of Eedica1 fadilitie-.
different  ifhIji  IsrAri     areas my affect copsbailltp of iota                         Adaissican  11 rHta  itltalhfled   Tota  ntabcr of edaislo.. t.ory di-hisge, f-o
a   -n vnites; i960l, 1970, ad 1975 data,hsiasdiin    th   ar oe                                                              f bed,.
M" ttonin rea Y      2    - Current population Pr-jetions  -o  based on                 l3OIN
1777toini poputlaton by sn  eand eec nodttheir sertality  sod ferniiitn-                X-iFis lieoIiueil   aroeprhueod) - total. urban  sad rura   -
eaten. Projection psn-sa~~~~~~~~~tern  fornotalty rates cospise of three           A hosee-   cosseo      ru    t nIiud                   i   bonlcc    unhe 
levlsasuin   Ifeepetny abirth he-eaieg   ith c-ntryn.                                     their sale  -.als.  A hoarder or lodger my or  Ws  not be inluvoi  the
per caPita incom  le-el, ad feasle life eupetto-c  stsilicieg at                          houshold fon- sttiati-aInepes
77.5 year..     The peaste-  fcr _fertility rate slso have tirne levels                 Avea  nmbe of aes             e ro       oal   ra.ad ranal hoeug   -rnic
family al1nieg porfon-sn . Each coutry is then assigned one of th..n                      repotively.  Wlellinge eclude non-pursanet atrutu-es and u-uospied parts
nin  ebminatloa  of enrtality ad fertility trn-ads for pvojetioo                      Anoes  to   roticite (otroet of d-elling) . totl   ra.sdrrl-  fi-
porpoen.                                                                                  cetoa   nlig             heetiiy in IioIngquart.nre as Per-oetgt  -5
Stationary      latiloc-bnanattic...n-y  populatioc. there Is no gn-osh                     total, urba, ad rural dne1ingnre-pe-tbely.
innv   thUirthite Iiqulto the death rate, and also the ngr
atructre  -eI.. contant. Thin is anhievd only sfter fertIlity rates                  iEDATbIOi
decline to the replacescInt leve  tf oath net rpdio ionrtn, sh..                     -Adjusted Enarallat lotion
cant1 geerton  ofn-eeploen  itanilf  -satly.  The stationary pope-                        Pr  1r col.total, anle andfeal   -roe. total, sale sd fea1e  enrol-
Jetn  gtionin seti=atd on the basin if the projected vIheoertietyica                      a"ntof al  egee at the peIsay  n-i     per_etagso   epolcpta
of tic  opolation in the ye.v 2000, and the n-ttr of decline of fertility                   schoo-age.&  popUtaiocs; eon-slly includes  bild-e  ged (-II pete  hut
ratnetoeepiscnnetlovsl.                                                                     ad)oetnd for diffen-et lengths of priso-   education;  -r -ott.               iti,
dea- st.tiocarn nolation. be crnohe   - The yea  ihen statiocry population                     uivra  ed-noatioc. ean1-oect my soved 100 peren  omtnoepopin
sire hasbee   ece.a- bebon on  ebo                                                                                 hetin l mie;l school age.
It-pulation Leantty                                                                           lecondarn aIo.l - total  ale ad fesal   - I-mpted or ti .csr  ....ary
Per to. he   sMd-pen- popolution  pen -         .sur  kiloeter (100 he-tan-e) of               euaIon require   at i-ofurpn of approvd pIceuy ict3ruibt
tritnin                                                                                     pec-id-s general cocatooi.., or tenoher tr.ainig innt-t-tsc. f.e pu::,1o
Pee In. he   grioin-l-. lasid - Cospttd .. shoe fon-  gei-uItuei land                          usualy of 12 to 17 py-   of age; ro-repondence coo-ne  try ,r O-rabiy
only.                                                                                       enclu.ded
~Pp-l"tlo)Ad  itructu         en-cnt).   Children (0-li pear),  okin-Abg-sa                    Vcnooal...In tiooPn-cet of  -ecodar) - Voo-tocn ...                    e.t.asic h
(15bbyss,an  tn-eed (65 years nodoe)a  pe-cetage  of aid-ete                                  tecnia,   bnat-ii  ccohehronnu   uh sP-eto  todrp-e-tly o
population- ; 1960, 1970, sod 1977 dt.depsetanta  of aeondar  ic-titotions.
PPoelation broth Rcane       1.. atna   - total - Annual cv-th me of Wtota  nd-                 Poci-teache- ratio - Prteao   enod secndry          - fta   -td-nti,otlii
year Wpoo ti.a.o. foe           , 19  - 7, asd ls9n-fo77                                       priso-py nod.seondary loesioded by e-ne    I t.heeer   ci    ssv.e...-
Pn=tulatico     ,2     o   en-cen    - uba  - Annoal gr-th eae   of urban                        spending leceII.
popointirs for  1990-607  BliP   sd 1970-75.                                      Adobe icterny rate (co-cent) - Literate eduiho (able to ento enotste.               a
Ceode h-tb    n- thousan) - Astoun  line bletbo  pee thoo.nnd of e1d-                    a  e-ntg  of total idut popolati- aged I'  -ear   nod oven-.
year pcpla6o597,19               nd1977 data.
Crude Death"            nthosnod  - Ascoun  deatbo pee thounad of sid-pen                 CinbhlPi bEd
popobatbo,.; 1960,  979sod  197 dnta.                                                        sene Car (cntnh thou.nnd cnl.htoC    P- Ooeng-r  -en  -op-ein               .ror
Iron ceRoput-toc cane - coe-age nonier of dauh~tenanon-   eill bear                           setin  lenta  eight pern..n.; -Icludes sdolae-, henroen so cd isr
b bee cn-sal reproduction   pIend ifnbpen-cr v.  presect age.                              vehicle.11
-Peccfto fertilitY n-thea; u...tlly floe-peso  acrg ending in 1960,                       laio RcIvers. (cnn  thousan  cociJtio)-'  Ald tppen .  receiee....    mal -.
970, nod 1975.                                                                             be__u,  ognrl pobli                   Lb-tosn    fpplioe    nlie   h  rve
Panlbc fisioting -Aconchorn Onnoal  thoo-ade) -eA koa  nh-n- of                      iecioenlnoutrrn  no hb ennsnnegshsicc   as
ae-ptor,o  bith-cotrol doecsden - nopionIof oatioa..l fesily                                effect; data fc  n-eon-t pen-h esy  -tbob i-onpnr.. LIn- nioe.    rstr
clon.ing  trg-ee                                                                            abolished licensig.
ho all  n-rind conen In san  ag  gery.                                                      and tn Peo ohe. reginttaio- of TV ietn ann toffect
nFOIll AND liUTRTIilN                                                                         lenParer Circulation (per thousad tsjsltica) .Shout the r--rgr isn-miatlse
-h51rrrr0wdobion Pner Cacita 1                   97.1 I.-cdet of pen-vapita              of 'daily gene.ral inte ts cenppo   ,def~Ind L         upn  ota   o   rhc
'9                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~devoted printsy-tiphotro-i--  general  n-Mb   iti   cns Ie-il1 tc cc  I.d-i
feedo d'           lendu der o   all food cvenCdns.  Pdutrtio- ec lutes noedan              if it aepenes ot leant f...etieeaseo
feed ad  in c  calendar peso  han.Ckh i bin  coe-pn11n-   od                           Clove doma..l Attendance pe- Cablta er  Oa-I-boc_   rr the i-sa -rVr--c
(e.g  nugaronbecanbead of suar) ebiob areedible nod cotai  cohn-cb          cold during tic Year  tolodiog Idn io..o. ts dr. c-ic                   -,jnt   s ,,I a-i 
(egrLLrad hntn-eeo boded).  Oggretnbe  roucict Tof-ah -toucy                        uit.
in hated c ntional averg  producer prior teights
Pee_onnitn noccis- of rclo     - (ceecet of n-coin-eats( - Cosputed feoc                l,hR FORCh
raeg    qivct -   nbfti n1_1PPli-dvs  cibluhi   i -onbep Per otpita                 TtlabrForce(thoosnnoo  I - fro..oairai   cin   eosn,rsuttae
cer19 ds.Oabhcneloccrc    ocaio-oote,lprsls                                                u-.   doesl d hucit  isocog boeic,csct,vticri-
-opots, sond Lvsoe   c  tc.  net c.pphics etc lod   -os..I fend, ssd                       n  aiu  csttn  nnc   ropa-abl-
qaeicund be.fod petecorg, and bases  idebbsin equr-                             fesalneroat)                   - P-ni   ao   o-ea   ece-tae ol t,-hal Letbi  r-foi
-cat, un-er ctientedby PhI b-d ton phy-ioigtcal cn-da  . forno-sal                          .  9gly4 p -e.jfjt) - Wabo  In-ce ic fnraicg, 1oee-trpy- h,oting cIn
_tcto_0ndhelthconsider..Ing  cccir- e te 1 teper-toe, body seighti,                       fihing an percetage tf tota1 lbIr foece
ate and see dlhtributirrec .f poysintiric, sod allying lb pen-tnb for                               n-renry'~7t) -bl   srn-cc   sinigeecrmrretafttstc ti
caste st householo level.                                         n co~~in-ciy  .tan- ad sac as pen-cetag   f total labor forte-
Ir c-yina suoblo of P,ctcn(genus pc  don) - Protein cocten. if  e                         Patiiptin-at   percnt - theal. Insle. sdfnl -n 1'intIripseto   or
rapit -nnt supply of food pe- dy. Mint nopplp if food is del ineda                        atielty ratest an'-noputed a.ln totl, sale  nd fennicinto-r.tn-c  ntl pee
ahoce. i-quie..n.ots foe all -ontei-a  -siblisned bp USDA peoide for, a                    etae       f toba   sale  no~d f-ele phpyctiaino   i   gnnn1c  inp
niclesis  llonnove 01  SI rn    of total peoteoc per dp and 2Cgas  ft90. 1971, ad 1975 d                         Ta. hns- son ils,  part,ocunt-o  n-ann-  n-fln-tstg
sondad pois  p-ein  of ehioh 10  n-se  ahcld be noisn  protein.                       ug-e    trutr   oftepopu1thio, ad bong or-  tIeed.  A fec  -otisat-
;ccc- iadarp      ae  oe -    botoPo'7  o-ec. of total pectel   n                         ten - net   atons   ono-
25 gene  of anini protin ann  ten-ge foe ten- son-id,  Iproposd by n-Oo         Ionnd eonens eatit -_Patit of poput-o  order 1  and sO ano 00c  h
it the Thin-IWSord s-cd Ourcep.thlaofu-naagg-opf15bpe-.
Oc aItacetei suIpply fLeoniao-I nod poise  - Proo-eic oupply of food 
ishlid (aes 0-u) an-halit rate lon  thounad   - Ocoon  deaths per thoussd      PeatgofriteIc    ( th in  ...h and kind) - ORoiod bri.h-ttes
gcno  groop I-   en-n, -tot'  .IRS-ind-n1  thIia  gcisoP; foe suet dend-                  5E pcotrihs20eneh,orst 20 pen-cet, nod poo..-cu  40 pee-tec
oPier  -oro r  Ont  de-io-o  f..n life  table,:                                              of hoceeholda.
HbiALTH                                                                                     POVERITY TARGET 0G0O2
Life   p                      n-sn-sh~ -   - Aloerno   conbee irf yearn of lifa             Esti::nted Absolote P-eit Iooc enI (bO   uc ace    tnban aco n-onal-
ne-n-slvig at bieth;I        19670,t nod 1977. data                                           bouepvrt   coei-r  in  iamv.eo-LetUhi        tra
ifn  ttlthae   (r  htueo   Au-1 on-attn of infants under one                          nutrit Ional.ly adequate diet Plus eot-la tri-food e-qorens, ic ht
pear of Ig   e   toand lice biebta.                                                          affordable.
A-or- to Safe Saer- C ce-cet tf pelco)-tbI . urbaneod -ua.                                  Ehationd.Rlatv   io-oItn   ee  1$cn                        ia-o-a  o   ua
firohsiet_ doen  toot atild    L.that feepoetdhseoe,srnsith nijostant for highen -cot of living to o-ban so-nc-
sod uaItsey  elia) as percentage nf th-tv ecspsvtiee pooaI              r    In .          IntimtdPauaindlobnlh   ona   ooelo-     rc-t-u-a 
200' ecec  fr..sIhiu..e coy he co..sid-ed no being nithte reasonable                                                             e   "U                        -n.
tvresa- to tac boost.  ic  rus-l are. a,ennacable ac-s  scold imply
ebIItalin h,onei-fe or t-n-va1 cf the h.oushold do, hot have to spend t                                                               &-noIc nod BItt1 bats Di-it-o
licy-oPtaPti itnat  Part if the Isp ic febthing the fsily' -nter oneedo                                                        R ....nc Analysis nod PeoJeoloos-  Depan-tsont
Asguct 19,79



ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GRO'WTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                         1965 - 70         1970 - 77
GNP at Market FPrices          2,514         100.0                         2.6                  3.1
Gross Domestic Investment        616                                       9.4                -21.2
Gross  National Saving           332          13.2
Current Account Balance         -277          11.                          23                   1.0
Exports of Goods, NFS            988          39.7                         9.                  11 1
Imports of Goods, NFS           1025          40.8                          .1                _
OUTPUT, LAB3R FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974
Value Added                    Labor Force/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ MlMln_                        Nl.       _                       US $          %
Agriculture                 297        10.0                  0.687        52.0                   432      19.3
Industry                      1,704        57.6                 0.198        15.0                  8,606    384.2
Services                        958        32.4                 0.337        25.5                  2,843    126.9
Unallocated                                                     0.099         7.5
Total/Average            ...                                                                               .
2,959                             1,321      100.0                , 2,240      l10.0
G0VERNMENT FINANCE                                             2/
General Government                               Central Government
(     Mln.)         % of GDP                      (Kwacha Mm,           of GDP
1978         1978      1971 - 77
Current Receipts                                                                         550          20.7        26
Current Expenditure                                                                      561          21.1        27
Current Surplus                                                                                        0          -1
Capital Expenditures (including lending)                                                 -11           0.4        -1
External Assistance (net)                                                                160           6.0         6
49           1.8         2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1965   1970   1972         1974         1975         1976  -      1977    1978
--     (Million  K  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       107.6  355.6    341.0    440.7          492.9        623.5        697.8   640
Bank credit to Public Sector                -88.7 -163.8    147.2       78.1        517.8        571.1        790.4  1063
Bank Credit to Private Sector 3/             42.3  136.9    165.0    335.8          392.9        394.1        470.4   426
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            15.1   27.8      25.5      23.1         31.6         34.3         36.8   24.4
General Price Index (1969 - 100)             76.2  102.6    114.6    132.1          145.4        172.6        206.9  242.1
Annual percentage changes Ins
General Price Index                           8.2    2.6       5.4       8.4         10.0         18.7         19.6   17.0
Bank credit to Public Sector                                 691.4    -61.9         306.9         79.7         38.4   34.5
Bank credit to Private Sector                  .    21.9      -9.7      92.1         17.0          0.3         19.4   -9.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  5Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
2/ Figures do not differ significantly from "Central Government".
3/ Includes parastatal organizations.
August, 1979                        .. not available
EACP I                               . not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORIS (AVERAGE 196 _78)
1976     1977      1978 (est)                                            US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, iFS         1,141    963       988                Copper                              947         92.0
Imports of Goods, tFS           908  1,007      1025                Lead, Zinc, Cobalt                   60          6.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -)      161    -44       -37                All other commodities                25          2.0
Total                          1032          100
Factor Payments (net)          -111   -100      -140
Net Transfers                  -108    -84      -100
Balance on Current Account       58   -228      -277
Direct Foreign Investment                                           EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 19781/
Net M1T Borrowing               270    244       364
Disbursements                         0us 2  36n
Amortization                  45     120     161                                                             U
Subtotal                    225    124       203                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            1,517.9
Capital Grants                  'Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                                       ..
Other Capital (net)            145    200        75                   Total outstanding & Disbursed            1,517.9
Other items n.e.i             -368   -169       -90
Increase in Reserves (+)       -56    -74       -89                 DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19781/2/
Gross Reserves (end year)       100     74        60
Net Reserves   (end year)      -145   -227     -279                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
RATES OF EXCHANGE (SDR's or US$ per Kwacha)                           Total outstanding & Disbursed               24.9
US$         SDR's
Before Feb. 73          1.40         1.29                     TERfDIMA LFN`DTNG.  (October 31. 1979)(Million US$)
Feb. 73 - July 76       1.55         1.29
July 76 - March 78      1.36         1.08                                                              IBRD         IDA
April 78                1.17         0.98
April 79                1.24         0.98                       Outstanding & Disbursed               330.9          0
Undisbursed                            95.4        22.3
Annual Average                                                  Outstanding incl. Undiabursed         426.3        22.3
a.  1977              1.32         1.08
b.  1978              1.27         0.98
1/ Preliminary estimate.
2/ Ratio of estimated debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services in 1978.
November 1979                                    not available
EAlDB                                          . not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of October 31, 1979
Loan   Credit
No.     No.    Year   Borrower              Purpose            Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
14 Fully Disbursed                        207.2
701-1   -      1975   Kariba North   Power Station             42.1    -          .3
Bank Company
882     -      1973   Zambia          Integrated Family        11.5    -         7.1
Farming
900     -      1973   Zambia          Education                33.0    -       10.3
919     -      1973   Zambia Elec-   Hydroelectric Power   115.0    -           5.8
tricity
Supply Corp.
1057     -      1974   Zambia          Urban Development        20.0    -        3.7
1131     -      1975   Posts & Tele.  Telecommunications        32.0    -       19.8
1210     -      1976   Development    Development Finance    15.0    -          11.2
Bank of         Co.
Zambia
1356     -      1977   Zambia          Education                13.3    -       11.9
1424     -      1977   Zambia          Industrial Forestry    16.8    -          14.0
1566    798    1978   Zambia           Third Highway            11.3   11.3    22.6
-     863    1979   Zambia           Coffee Production         -       6.0     6.0
873    1979   Zambia           Technical Assist.         -      5.0      5.0
Total                                          517.2   22.3   117.7
of which has been repaid                      90.9    -
Total now outstanding                          426.3   22.3
Amounts sold                        49.6
of which has been repaid          47.4         2.2    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA 1/                  424.1   22.3
of which is undisbursed                       95.4   22.3   117.7
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
October 31, 1979
Investment                                                   US$ million equivalent
No.      Year                       Type of Business       Loan  Equity  Total
216 ZA      1972  Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing    0.85   0.23    1.08
Co. Ltd.
250 ZA      1973  Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe manufacturing    1.20    -           1.20
Co. Ltd.            and tannery
307 ZA      1975  Century Packages   Packaging materials   0.78   0.21    0.99
Ltd.
324 ZA      1976  Development Bank   Development Finance    -         0.54    0.54
of Zambia           Co.
394 ZA      1978  Century Packages   Packaging materials   0.10    -           0.10
Ltd.
1979  Nchanga Consoli-   Cobalt Production    30.00    -         30.00
dated Copper
Mines 1/
Total gross commitments                          32.93   0.98   33.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                            12.22    -      12.22
l'otal now held by IFC                           20.71   0.98   21.69
l'otal undisbursed                               20.00    -      20.00
1/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. BANK PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 701-1       Kariba North Hydroelectric Project:  US$42.1 million
Supplemental Loan of August 16, 1974; Effectiveness Date:
December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Apart from some minor civil works, the project has been virtually
completed and came into full operation with four-MW units in May 1977.
Loan No. 882-ZA      Integrated Family Farming Project:  US$11.5 million loan
of February 28, 1973; Effectiveness Date: July 16, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Weak management and planning have led to continuing problems,
with the rate of farmer recruitment, area per farmer, and production standings
at 53 percent, 70 percent, and 35 percent of appraisal estimates. The project
is completed, but the Tobacco Management Board of Zambia's extremely poor
accounting procedures have necessitated an extension of the Closing Date from
June 30 to December 31, 1979 for the substantial backlog in disbursement
claims to be verified, processed and submitted.
Loan No. 900-ZA      Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million loan of June 6,
1973; Effectiveness Date: August 9, 1973; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
Project is basically completed, except for certain university
components and technical assistance which have been deleted at Government's
request. Project completion mission which recently visited Zambia, is pre-
paring its report. The Closing Date has been extended to March 31, 1980 to
facilitate finalization of accounts.  The Government's request for a further
extension of the Closing Date to utilize savings in financing construction of
twelve primary schools and a maintenance program for secondary schools is
under review.
Loan No. 919-ZA      Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115.0 million
loan of July 16, 1973; Effectiveness Date: January 15,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were com-
missioned in mid-1977. Construction of the main dam has been completed and
the reservoir filled. The project is expected to be completed within the
appraisal cost estimates. Power availability has not been up to expectations
because of unexpected breakdowns at the power station, but the problems are
now under control. Appropriate maintenance procedures also are being intro-
duced. The Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation's (ZESCO) financial perfor-
mance has not been satisfactory; a tariff increase is under consideration but
no action has been taken. Largely because of the economic recession affecting
Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a shortage of spare parts and the depar-
ture of some expatriate staff. The closing date has recently been extended
to December 31, 1982.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan No. 1057-ZA    Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Site and Services Project:
US$20.0 mLillion loan of December 6, 1974; Effectiveness
Date; April 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Physical progress on the project is generally good, although
estimated completion is more than two years behind appraisal estimate, due
primarily to delays in effectiveness. All infrastructure works are projected
for complet-ion by December 1980 and community facilities by 1981, with the
exception of schools which will not be completed before March 1982. Cost
recovery is an increasingly serious problem and the Collections Unit and its
accounting system are not equal to the task.  There was some improvement in
the service charge arrears position, but arrears are still unacceptably high,
while loan repayments have deteriorated further. The problem is linked to
delays in land acquisition and tenure document distribution.
Loan No. 1131-ZA    Telecommuinications Project:  US$32.0 million loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing ])ate: December 31, 1980
Project procurement and execution are approximately two and
one-half years behind schedule, largely because of government budgetary
constraints; and completion is expected in June 1983. A 40 percent increase
in telecommunications tariffs has been approved and implemented by Govern-
ment, and arrears and delays in billing have been reduced. Implementation
of the financial/management consultants' report is proceeding satisfactorily.
Implementation of the initial capitalization of the recently formed Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation, however, still remains to be completed.
Loan No. 1210-ZA    Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million loan of
February 18, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 23, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
About 90 percent of the loan has been committed for a number of
projects in various industries such as chemicals, textiles, packaging, agri-
culture and food processing. The low level of dibursements is mainly due
to a slower pace of operations than anticipated at sub-project appraisal.
Loan No. 1-356-ZA    Fourth Education Project:  US$13.3 million loan of January
17, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 8, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily despite difficulties in
procuremenit of materials. All contracts for the Farmer Training Centers have
been awarded and the technical assistance team provided by the Dutch Govern-
ment for the preparation of teaching programs is making very good progress.
In view of the difficult economic situation, the Government may not be able
to raise full counterpart funds in 1980 to maintain the construction program
at its present rate of implementation. A revival of interest in undertaking
the survey of the construct-Lon industry included in the project may result
in the Goviernment's allocat-ing funds for this component in the 1980 budget.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1424-ZA      Second Industrial Forestry Project:  US$16.8 million
loan of May 12, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 15,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory despite some
problems with staffing, equipment and spare parts. Planting targets are
being met very well; a lack of equipment in good running order and a shortage
of engineers has caused problems in welding, fire protection, logging and
transport.
Loan No. 1566-ZA
and
Credit 798-ZA         Third Highway Project:  US$22.5 million (US$11.25
million loan and US$11.25 million credit) of June 27,
1978; Effectiveness Date: November 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in loan and credit effectiveness, project implementa-
tion is about one year behind schedule.
Credit No. 863-ZA    Coffee Production Project:  US$6 million credit of
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will rehabilitate and develop two commercial coffee
estates (450 ha) and develop coffee production involving some 600 smallholder
families in the Northern Province. It will also provide coffee processing
and packing facilities, research on rainfed smallholder coffee production,
technical assistance to farmers, training of managerial and research staff,
and for equipment, including vehicles and irrigation infrastructure. It is
expected to produce 2,000 tons of maize annually, and provide year round
employment to about 1,000 persons. Problems have arisen regarding disburse-
ment and a mission is currently reviewing the situation.
Credit No. 873-ZA    Technical Assistance Project:  US$5 million credit of
December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project would assist the Government with project planning and
preparation for the Third National Development Plan (1979-83) by providing
(a) about 35 manyears of long-term expert services to the PPU and operational
ministries or other government agencies; (b) about 35 manyears of consultant
services for feasibility studies, design work, implementation and other
project-related activities; and (c) training of local staff, services, equip-
ment, vehicles, supplies and operating costs. A disbursement mission is
currently in the field advising on the setting-up of sub-projects and with-
drawal procedures.



ANNEX II
Page 6
D. IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. - 216-ZA and 250-ZA - Shoes and Tannery
General import restrictions in Zambia since 1976 have prevented
the company from importing for resale all the finished footwear it required
and the raw materials it neecled for its production operations. However, the
decline in production was more than offset by a 23 percent increase in the
averaging selling price. With its long-term loan almost fully repaid, the
company had a very low debt/equity ratio and a correspondingly high debt
service covierage ratio. Profits doubled in 1978 to $2.5 million giving a
return on equity of 47 percent and enabling the company to pay dividends of
$0.46 per share.
Century Packages Limited (207ZA) - Packaging
The plant was completed in 1977 about a year later than originally
anticipated with an increase in project cost of $530,000 which is equivalent
to 26 percent of total costs. The main reasons for the increased project
cost are the mid-1976 devaluation of the Kwacha, increased costs of civil
works and increased preproduction expenses because of the delay in project
start-up.
The increased project cost has been met largely through provision
of additional financing acquired under the Project Funds Agreement. Since
operations commenced, the company has been affected seriously by Zambian
price control policies, which have undermined the market for waxed wrappers,
representirtg 45 percent of sales. To some extent this has been offset by
growth in the polyethylene wrapper market. Profits for 1978, the first year
of full operation, were $102,000 equivalent to 10.5 percent of equity.
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) - Banking (324ZA)
DBZ's principal objective is to provide medium- and long-term loans
and equity financing for productive enterprises in manufacturing, agriculture
and tourisrn. In the fall of' 1977 the Government instituted the new Investment
Act designed to offer greater incentives to private enterprise and to attract
more foreign investment.  But, owing to the current economic problems in
Zambia, DBZ's outstanding portfolio as of March 31, 1979 ($47.4 million) was
substantiaLly below the level anticipated in the appraisal report of October
1975 ($98 million).  However, total approvals increased from $13.7 million in
FY78 to $14.6 million in FY79, or by about 6.5 percent.  Profits increased by
10 percent to $682,000 which represents a 5.2 percent return on equity.
Nchanga Conasolidated Copper Mines Ltd (NCCM) - Cobalt Production
The IFC loan of $30 million (of which not more than $20 million
would be fDr IFC's account) to NCCM for a cobalt production project was
approved on September 4, 1979 and is expected to be signed shortly.






ANNEX III
Page 1
ZANBIA
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
I.  Timetab]e of Key Events
(a)  Tinie taken to prepare project:       Eleven months
(b)  Preparation by:                       Government, Zambia Railways
Board, and World Bank
(c)  IniLtial discussion with Bank/IDA:  September 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:          January 1979
(e)  Negotiations:                         October/November 1979
(f)  Plnined date of effectiveness:        April 1980
II.  Special Bank/IDA Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government will have ZR will undertake a feasibility study
by December 31, 1981, to make recommendations concerning the
storage and handling facilities required by ZR and its major
customers, to improve ZR's operations (para. 40).
(b) The Government will take all reasonable action to provide ZR
with the import and other permits and licenses required for
acquiring and importing necessary spare parts (para. 41).
(c) The Government will undertake a feasibility study by December
31, 1980, to determine whether a road could replace the
railway line between Livingstone and Mulobezi (para. 47).
(d) ZR will take all necessary actions to achieve specified
operational targets (para. 51).
(e) The Government will reimburse ZR the costs of operations
ZR undertakes on the Government's behalf (para. 54).
(f)  The Government and ZR will take necessary actions to reduce
amounts owed to ZR, so that by December 31, 1980, ZR's
accounts receivable shall not exceed the equivalent of
forty-five days revenue (para. 54).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(g) ZR will not undertake any new investment during the project
period exceeding US$2 million in any given year without the
prior approval of the Bank Group and will not incur any new
debts unless its net revenues are at least 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements for the succeeding fiscal years of
ZR's debt (para. 54). ZR will revalue its assets annually,
beginning January 1, 1981, to reflect replacement costs and will
set tariffs to earn an 8 percent return on assets beginning with
the financial year 1980. The Government will take all measures
required on its part to enable ZR to adjust its tariffs so as to
enable ZR to meet the 8 percent rate of return on assets
(para. 55).
(h) Conditions of effectiveness include the execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement, submission to the Association by ZR of a detailed
training program for its middle-level and senior staff, and a cross
effective condition with the other external financing agreements,
excluding the ODA agreement (para. 60).



IBD 14252
T A  N FZ ~A N  I A
C~~~~~~~~~~C
-;                                                                       Mp..k- /Cae 
A~~N   OLAE)  "Nd                       AIRE`                       \t UPUEW
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                               b,
- 3o p-~       F              TP  A L    3Petke-,,
Ken,                                        Man~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r    j    oieoR GrT,onHo            R
le
wI  WES    TERN          Kolobo                                                                                 u,,n       --p-->A,  OF
4'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A






~~~~~~~~~~~~e {U  - 5  _ _      p X*  
SiLfO?i 1VNOLIVNZi1NI
vIgawvz
K~~~~~~~~~~~
4--
44
MP IIUWIL= SIfiI8i   =                         i                              
vItWVtUSvi7W8S$4zST4'e
sqlv 033;                 0      >iU                            (                         <_



