O    C          SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 40 ZA
DOCUMENTS
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
between
THE R1'IBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated   T   w, 1980


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 40 ZA
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated _j"JL       1               , 1980, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the Special Action Account
established with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (hereinafter called IDA) and
the European Economic Community and its Member States there has
been established by IDA a Special Action Account constituted
by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of such Special Action Account, for the purpose of,
and in accordance with, the provisions of said Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Administrator for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and the Administrator has determined that such assistance would be
in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement of May 2, 1978
referred to above;
(C) by a Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement) between the
Republic of Zambia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and IDA, and
by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank), IDA
and the Bank have agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), and twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000),
respectively, on terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively;
(D) the Borrower also intends to contract from other
financiers, loans, credits and grants in an aggregate amount
equivalent to about eighty-nine million one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($89,150,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered
into between the Borrower and other financiers;
(E) the Project will be carried out by Zambia Railways
Board (hereinafter called ZR) with the assistance of the Zambia


﻿- 2 -
Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (hereinafter called
ZIMCO), and the Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ZR the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Special Action Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and
in a joint project agreement of even date herewith among the Bank,
the Association, the Administrator, ZIMCO and ZR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.


﻿- 3 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom;
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment;
(c) "Joint Project Agreement" means the agreement among
the Administrator, IDA, the Bank, ZIMCO and ZR of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Joint Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Joint Project Agreement;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ZR pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement and Article III of the Loan Agreement,,   the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "Railways Act" means the Zambia Railways Act of the
Borrower (Act No. 47 of 1967) as amended to the date of this
Agreement, as the same may be further amended from time to time;
(f) "MPTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Power, Transport
and Communications, or any successor thereto; and
(g) "ZR" means Zambia Railways Board, a body established
under the Railways Act or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:


﻿-4-
Five million nine
hundred and sixty-
three thousand         Belgian francs          (BF5,963,000);
Seven hundred and
forty-two thousand     Danish kroner              (DK742,000);
Two million eight
hundred and sixty-
six thousand           Deutsche marks          (DM2,866,000);
Three million and
thirty thousand        French francs           (FF3,030,000);
Six thousand six
hundred                Irish pounds                (IrE6,600);
Three hundred and
fifty-one million
five hundred and
ninety thousand        Italian lire          (ItL351,590,000);
One hundred and
eighty-seven thou-
sand                   Luxembourg francs          (LF187,000);
Seven hundred and
ninety-two thou-
sand                   Netherlands guilders     (Dfl 792,000);
and
Seven hundred and
thirty thousand
seven hundred          Pounds sterling            (730,700).
Section 2.02. (a) The proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.


﻿- 5 -
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures: (i) in the currency of the Borrower; or (ii) for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, (A) any of the Member
States and (B) any developing country which is a member of the
International Development Association and could be the recipient
of a special action credit, as determined by the Administrator.*
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts
withdrawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to
time. The amounts of service charge in various currencies so
found, and additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to
Section 3.02 of the General Conditions, shall be payable in the
currency of the United States of America, or in another currency
selected by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
(b) If the AdminisLrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible
or freely exchangeable by the International Development Associa-
tion for currencies of other members of the International Develop-
ment Association for the purposes of its operations, service
*    A list of such potential recipients will be given by the
A;ainistrator to the Borrower at the time of the signing of
each Special Action Credit Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
charges shall be payable in such other currency as the Adminis-
trator may select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to
the Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of
such notice, service charges shall be payable in such other
currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1990,
and ending November 1, 2029, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment of fractional cur-
rency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) of this Section, be deemed to have been withdrawn in
the currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such
purchase in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in


﻿- 7 -
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
Section 2.08. The General Manager of ZR is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Special Action Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ZIMCO and ZR to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Joint Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all their respective obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, serv7ces and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enabl2 'IMCO and
ZR to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit to ZR, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ZR under terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Administrator which
shall include the following: repayment of principal in 20 years,
inclusive of 5 years of grace; interest at a rate of not less than
seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum; and
ZR to bear the foreign exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to accomplish
the purposes of the Special Action Credit, and except as the
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
from time to time all measures required on its part in order to
enable ZIMCO and ZR to adjust freight and other tariffs of ZR and
to enable ZR to carry out its obligations under Section 4.05 of
the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such measures as may be required to enable its departments
and agencies, and all organizations, enterprises or corporations
owned or controlled by the Borrower, to reduce all the outstanding
dues and unpaid balances of debts owed by them to ZR, so that by
December 31, 1980 and thereafter, ZR's average accounts receivable
shall not exceed the equivalent of forty-five days revenue.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall continue to make funds
available to ZR to cover ZR's operating deficits and the cost of
construction of capital works arising out of operations undertaken
by ZR at the direction of the Borrower.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause ZR to carry out, with
the assistance of consultants, a feasibility study by December 31,
1981, to make recommendations concerning storage and handling
facilities required by ZR and its major customers, to improve ZR's
operations.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance to ZR of
such import and other permits and licenses as shall be necessary
for the acquisition and importation of spare parts required for
the maintenance and renewal of ZR's plant, equipment and property.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ZIMCO or ZR shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Joint Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ZR or ZIMCO will be able to perform
their respective obligations under the Joint Project Agreement;


﻿- 9 -
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement by the parties thereto;
(d) the Railways Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived or ZR shall have been incorporated
under the Companies Act of the Borrower, in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of ZR to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Joint
Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissol-
ution or disestablishment of ZR or for the suspension of its
operations; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, credit or loan made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B) any such credit or loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower, ZR or ZIMCO from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue


﻿- 10 -
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Administrator to the Borrower, ZIMCO and ZR; and
(b)  any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Special Action
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Administrator:
(a)  that the Joint Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by ZIMCO and ZR, and is legally binding upon
ZIMCO and ZR in accordance with its terms; and
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and ZR and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ZR in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                             is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 (excluding
the reference to paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 4.01) of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Special Action Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years aiter the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time respon-
sible for Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box R.W. 62
Ridgeway
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                            ZA 42221
Ridgeway
Lusaka
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Special Action Credit to each
Category and the percentage for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed         Expenditures
Category         in Dollar Equivalents)      to be Financed
(1) Telecommuni-            4,500,000
cations equip-
ment:
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) imported                                 75% of local
but lo-                                 expenditures
cally
procured
(2) Unallocated               500,000
TOTAL   5,000,000
2.   The total dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn currency amounts in the
Credit Account; the unallocated dollar amount shall be adjusted
accordingly.*
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of, and for goods produced in or services supplied
*    The dollar amounts shown in the foregoing table are calcu-
lated on the basis of the same exchange rates as the exchange
rates on the basis of which the currency amounts specified in
Section 2.01 are calculated, so that the dollar amounts shown
represent the dollar equivalents of those currency amounts as
of the date on which such exchange rates are in effect.


﻿- 14 -
from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii) any developing coun-
try, other than the Borrower, which is a member :f the Inter-
national Development Association and could be the recipient of a
Special Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds
of the Special Action Credit shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such
taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Special Action Credit decreases or increases,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Administrator.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Special
Action Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Special Action Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Special Action
Credit Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed


﻿- 15 -
out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Admin-
istrator may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Administrator under the Special
Action Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
currency amounts of the Special Action Credit as, in the Adminis-
trator's reasonable opinion, represent the currency amounts
which would otherwise have been eligible for withdrawal out of the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit in respect of such expendi-
tures.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of ZR's investment plan for 1979-
1983, for the modernization and improvement of its rollifng stock
and rehabilitation and improvement of maintenance facilities and
track and consists of the following:
Part A:
The renewal and improvement of about 112 kilometers of track
on the line between Mookamunga and Livingstone, including
extension and re-spacing of crossing loops, completion of a
concrete sleeper plant and replacement of Kafue Bridge.
Part B:
Installation of a new centralized traffic control signalling
system and extension of ZR's telecommunications system.
Part C:
The acquisition and placing in service of about 10 diesel
locomotives and the repair of about 4 diesel locomotives.
Part D:
The acquisition and placing in service of about 915 wagons
and 2 breakdown cranes.
Part E:
The acquisition of spare parts for use in ZR's rehabilitation
and maintenance program for locomotives, wagons, passenger
coaches and railcars.
Part F:
1.   The acquisition of workshop machinery and tools for
the repair of traction motors, generators, a wheel lathe and
assembly of new freight wagons.
2.   The extension of the diesel locomotive depot in Kabwe.


﻿- 17 -
3.   The rebuilding of repair track at Ndola, Kitwe, Kabwe
and Livingstone, including equipping of such depots.
Part G:
The installation of handling equipment at major stations
to improve the loading and unloading of wagons.
Part H:
The acquisition and installation of data processing facili-
ties to improve the general operations of ZR.
Part I:
The construction of new housing for the staff of ZR and the
improvement of existing housing.
Part J:
1.   The provision of technical advisory services to (i) ZR
for operations and project implementation and (ii) MPTC and
ZR for planning.
2.   The carrying out of (i) a productivity study for a
workshop for ZR, (ii) a railway electrification feasibility
study, and (iii) a feasibility study to determine whether the
railway line between Livingstone and Mulobezi should be
upgraded or replaced by a road.
3.   Staff training both locally and overseas, including
the provision of equipment and materials for the Kabwe
training school.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   I     Lday of         -  ,
198 12.
FOR SECRETARY


