OPP           CREDIT NUMBER 973 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 973 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called the Bank)
to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Special Action Credit Agreement), the Association, as Adminis-
trator of the Special Action Account established by the Associa-
tion with funds contributed by the Member States of the European
Economic Community (hereinafter called the Administrator), has
agreed to make a Special Action Credit (hereinafter called the
Special Action Credit) to the Borrower in various currencies
equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project;
(E) the Borrower and the Swedish International Development
Authority (hereinafter called SIDA) have entered into an agreement
(hereinafter called the SIDA Agreement) providing for SIDA to make
a grant to the Borrower in an amount of sixty million Swedish
Kronor (SKr60,OOO,000) equivalent to about thirteen million
dollars ($13,000,000) (hereinafter called the SIDA Grant), to
assist in financing the Project;


﻿-2-
(F) the Borrower and Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
(hereinafter called KfW) have entered into an agreement (herein-
after called the KfW Agreement) providing for KfW to make a loan
to the Borrower in an amount of forty-four million Deutsche Mark
(DM44,000,000) equivalent to about twenty-three million three
hundred thousand dollars ($23,300,000) (hereinafter called the KfW
Loan), for the same purpose;
(G) the Borrower and the Opec Special Fund (hereinafter
called the Opec Fund) have entered into a loan agreement (herein-
after called the Opec Fund Agreement) providing for the Opec Fund
to make a loan to the Borrower in an amount of four million five
hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000) (hereinafter called the Opec
Fund Loan) for the same purpose;
(H) the Borrower intends to contract from the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (hereinafter called UK)
a loan (hereinafter called the UK ODA Loan) in an amount of seven
million Pounds Sterling (7,000,000) equivalent to about fourteen
million dollars ($14,000,000) for the same purpose on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
UK ODA Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
UK;
(I) the Borrower and the African Development Bank (herein-
after called ADB) propose to enter into an agreement (hereinafter
called the ADB Agreement) providing for ADB to make a loan in an
amount of eight million Units of Account (UA8,000,000) equivalent
to about nine million seven hundred thousand dollars ($9,700,000)
(hereinafter called the ADB Loan) for the same purpose;
(J) the Borrower and the Japan Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (hereinafter called the Japan Fund) have entered into an
agreement (hereinafter called the Japan Fund Agreement) providing
for the Japan Fund to make a loan to the Borrower in an amount
of two billion eight hundred sixty-four million Japanese Yen
(Y2,864,000,000) equivalent to .about sixteen million two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($16,250,000) (hereinafter called the
Japan Fund Loan) for the same purpose;
(K) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Economic Community a credit (hereinafter called the EEC Credit) in
an amount of six million two hundred thousand European Units of
Account (EUA6,200,000) equivalent to about eight million four
hundred thousand dollars ($8,400,000) for the same purpose on the


﻿- 3 -
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the EEC Agreament) to be entered into between the Borrower and
the European Economic Community; and
(L) the Project will be carried out by Zambia Railways
Board (hereinafter called ZR) with the assistance of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (hereinafter called
ZIMCO) and the Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ZR the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Joint
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the
Administrator, the Bank, ZIMCO and ZR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree a.7 follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Joint Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the Administrator, the Bank, ZIMCO and ZR of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Joint Project Agreement
and all agreements supplemental to the Joint Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ZR pursuant to Section


﻿-4-
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, Section 3.01 (b) of the Special Action
Credit Agreement and Article III of the Loan Agreement, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose
of the Project, as sucn agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15,
1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the
Loan Agreement;
(d) "Railways Act" means the Zambia Railways Act of the
Borrower (Act No. 47 of 1967), as amended to the date of this
Agreement, as the same may be further amended from time to time;
(e) "MPTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Power, Transport
and Communications, or any successor thereto; and
(f) "ZR" means Zambia Railways toard, a body established
under the Railways Act or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit.Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to thLs Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association
and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be aoverned by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the Joint Project Agreement.


﻿- 5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1990, and ending December 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of ZR is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ZIMCO and ZR to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Joint Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all their respective obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ZIMCO and ZR to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevenIt or interfere with such performance.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
to ZR, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ZR under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association, which shall include the
following: repayment of principal in 20 years, inclusive of 5
years of grace; interest at a rate of not less than seven and
ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum; and ZR to bear
the foreign exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
from time to time all measures required on its part in order to
enable ZIMCO and ZR to adjust f.reight and other tariffs of ZR and
to enable ZR to carry out its obligations under Section 4.05 of
the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such measures as may be required to enable its departments and
agencies, and all organizations, enterprises or corporations owned
or controlled by the Borrower, to reduce all the outstanding dues
and unpaid balances of debts owed by them to ZR, so that by
December 31, 1980 and thereafter, ZR's average accounts receivable
shall not exceed the equivalent of forty-five days revenue.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall continue to make funds
available to ZR to cover ZR's operating deficits and the cost of
construction of capital works arising out of operations undertaken
by ZR at the direction of the Borrower.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause ZR to carry out, with
the assistance of consultants, a feasibility study by December 31,
1981, to make recommendations concerning storage and handling
facilities required by ZR and its major customers, to improve ZR's
operations.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance to ZR of
such import and ocher permits and licenses as shall be necessary
for the acquisition and importation of spare parts required for
the maintenance and renewal of ZR's plant, equipment and property.


﻿-7-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) undertake a feasibility
study by December 31, 1980, to determine whether a road could
replace the railway line between Livingstone and Mulobezi; (ii)
furnish to the Association a report of such feasibility study; and
(iii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to review
such report and to exchange views thereon with the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ZIMCO or ZR shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Joint Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ZR or ZIMCO will be able to perform
their respective obligations under the Joint Project Agreement;
(c) a default shall occur in the performance of any obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement by the parties thereto;
(d) the Railways Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived or ZR shall have been incorporated
under the Companies Act of the Borrower, in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of ZR to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Joint
Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissol-
ution or disestablishment of ZR or for the suspension of its
operations; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, credit or loan made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or


﻿- 8 -
(B) any such credit or loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower, ZR or ZIMCO from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, ZIMCO and ZR; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed cn
behalf of the Borrower and ZR;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or
the right to make wit*drawals under the agreements (excluding the
UK ODA Agreement) referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement,
except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been
fulfilled; and
(c) ZR shall have furnished to the Association a detailed
program for the training of its senior and middle level staff.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in che opinion or opinions to be
furnished to t,te Association:
(a) that the Joint Project Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by ZIMCO and ZR, and is legally binding upon
ZIMCO and ZR in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrowor and ZR and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and ZR in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date OcO/K 13           , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 (excluding
the reference to paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 4.01) of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terninate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box R.W. 62
Ridgeway
Lusaka, Zambia


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                            ZA 42221
Ridgeway
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above wr-.ten.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of such proceeds to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the Loan       % of
Allocated (Expressed    Expenditures
Category               in Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Track materials,            13,000,000
including track
laying equip-
ment:
(a) directly                                  100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) imported but                              75% of local
locally pro-                              expenditures
cured
(2) Telecommunications           2,700,000
equipment
(a) directly                                  100% of for-
imported                                  eign expendi-
tures
(b) imported but                              75% of local
locally pro-                             expenditures
cured
(3) Wagons and spare             4,500,000
parts


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the Loan       % of
Allocated (Expressed    Expenditures
Category               in Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(a) directly                                  100% of for-
imported                                 eign expendi-
tures
(b) imported but                              75% of local
locally pro-                             expenditures
cured
(4) Workshop and re-             2,700,000
lated equipment
(a) directly                                  100% of for-
imported                                 eign expendi-
tures
(b) imported but                              75% of local
locally pro-                             expenditures
cured
(5) Data processing              2,000,000         100% of for-
facilities                                    eign expendi-
tures
(6) Technical advisory           8,400,000         100% of for-
services, studies                             eign expendi-
and staff training                            tures
(7) Unallocated                  6,700,000
TOTAL        40,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan decreases or increases,
the Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association or the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Loan then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed per-
centage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association or
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association or


﻿- 14 -
the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estime-ed shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan and the Association or the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association or the Bank under
the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan AgrEement, respec-
tively, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Credit or the Loan as, in the Association's or the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of ZR's investment plai for 1979-
1983, for the modernization and improvement of its rolling stock
and rehabilitation and improvement of maintenance facilities and
track and consists of the following:
Part A:
The renewal and improvement of about 112 kilometers of
track on the line between Mookamunga and Livingstone, including
extension and re-spacing of crossing loops, completion of a
concrete sleeper plant and replacement of Kafue Bridge.
Part B:
Installation of a new centralized traffic control signalling
system and extension of ZR's telecommunications system.
Part C:
The acquisition and placing in service of about 10 diesel
locomotives and the repair of about 4 diesel locomotives.
Part D:
The acquisition and placing in service of about 915 wagons
and 2 breakdown cranes.
Part E:
The acquisition of spare parts for use in ZR's rehabilitation
and maintenance program for locomotives, wagons, passenger coaches
and railcars.
Part F:
1.   The acquisition of workshop machinery and tools for
the repair of traction motors, generators, a wheel lathe and
assembly of new freight wagons.
2.   The extension of the diesel locomotive depot in Kabwe.


﻿- 16 -
3.   The rebuilding of repair track at Ndola, Kitwe, Kabwe
and Livingstone, including equipping of such depot-
Part G:
The installation of handling equipment at major stations
to improve the loading and unloading of wagons.
Part H:
The acquisition and installation of data processing facili-
ties to improve the general operations of ZR.
Part I:
The construction of new housing for the staff of ZR and the
improvement of existing housing.
Part J:
1.   The provision of technical advisory services to (i) ZR
for operations and project implementation and (ii) MPTC and ZR for
planning.
2.   The carrying out of (i) a productivity study for a
workshop for ZR, (ii) a railway electrification feasibility study,
and (iii) a feasibility study to determine whether the railway
line between Livingstone and Mulobezi should be upgraded or re-
placed by a road.
3.   Staff training both locally and overseas, including the
provision of equipment and materials for the Kabwe training
school.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   /       day of          ,
198 02..
FOR SECRETARY


