F3T   AL      LOAN NUMBER 1790 ZA
DOCMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                         , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1790 ZA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  ATUA-L         3           , 1980, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bo'rrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, as
hereinafter defined, by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested International Develop-
ment Association (hereinafter called the Association) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association (hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement)
the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000) (hereinafter called the Credit);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on
the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Special Action Credit Agreement), the Association, as Adminis-
trator of the Special Action Account established by the Associa-
tion with funds contributed by the Memb6r States of the European
Economic Community (hereinafter called the Administrator), has
agreed to make a Special Action Credit (hereinafter called the
Special Action Credit) to the Borrower in various currencies
equivalent to about five million dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project;
(E) the Borrower also intends to contract from other finan-
ciers, loans credits and grants in an aggregate amount equivalent
to about eighty-nine million one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars ($89,150,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and said other financiers;


﻿-2-
(F) the Project will be carried out by Zambia Railways
Board (hereinafter called ZR) with the assistance of the Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (hereinafter called
ZIMCO) and the Borrower and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ZR the proceeds of the Loan as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a joint project
agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, the Association,
the Administrator, ZIMCO and ZR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees -to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various- currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the


﻿-3 -
Bank and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of ZR is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower undertakes towards the Bank the
same obligations it is undertaking towards the Association, pur-
suant to Article III of the Development Credit Agreement. Said


﻿Article III is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the
same force and effect as if it were fully set forth herein;
provided, however, that all references to the Association and the
Credit in said Article shall be deemed to be references to the
Bank and the Loan, respectively.
Section 3.02. As long as any part of the Loan provided for
under this Agreement shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all
action taken by, and any notice given to, the Association pursuant
to the Development Credit Agreement shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, be deemed to be taken or given also by or to
the Bank and all information, including reports, furnished by the
Borrower to the Association shall be deemed to be furnished also
to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 5 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. The events set forth in Sections 4.01 P-J 4.02
of the Development Credit Agreement are specified as aditional
events pursuant to paragraph (k) of Section 6.02 and paragraph (h)
of Section 7.01, respectively, of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, except only the effectiveness of
this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The dateOA0DP'D   1is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section .1.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-6-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box R.W. 62
Ridgeway
Lusaka
Zambia
Cable address:                     Telex:
FINANCE                            ZA 42221
Ridgeway
Lusaka
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Tclex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-7-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 1985
through   May 15, 1999                         835,000
On November 15, 1999                                785,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-9-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                   Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         2.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  6.35%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                  7.15%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  7.95%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Ceriifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  / J Lday of          , 198  _
FOR SECRETARY


