Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20063
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
[Credit No. 2287-LSO]
January 28, 2000
Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lesotho Maloti
Appraisal: US$1 =M2.56 Closing: US$1 =M6.24
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I -March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COSC       Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DRT        District Resource Tutor
DRC        District Resource Centre
ECOL       Examinations Council of Lesotho
EFU        Education Facilities Unit
EO         Education Officer
EU         European Union
FPE        Free Primary Education
GOL        Government of Lesotho
IDA        International Development Association
JCE        Junior Certificate Examination
LIET       Lesotho In-Service Education for Teachers
LP         Lerotholi Polytechnic
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE        Ministry of Education
NCDC       National Curriculum Development Centre
NTTC       National Teacher Training College
NUL        National University of Lesotho
PSLE       Primary School Leaving Exam
PTC        Primary Teachers Certificate Exam
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SEC        Schools Examination Council
TA         Technical Assistance
TSC        Teaching Service Commission
TVD        Technical and Vocational Division
TVE        Technical and Vocational Education
UBLS       University of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Education Fund
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director: Pamela Cox
Sector Manager: Ruth Kagia/Dzingai Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader: Trish Tierney



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................                                          i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................ 1
Introduction and Background .......1..................................... 
Project Objectives ............................................ 1
Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................ 3
Project Implementation Experience and Results .........................                ................... 4
Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................ 9
Bank Performance ............................................                                           9
Borrower Performance ............................................                                      10
Assessment of Outcome ............................................                                     10
Project Sustainability and Future Operation ............................................               10
Key Lessons Learned ............................................                                       11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...............................................                              12
Table t: Summary Of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits .13
Table 3: Project Timetable .14
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:  Key Indicators Of Project Implementation .16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation.. 21
Table 7: Studies Conducted Under Project .23
Table 8A:  Project Costs ............................................ 24
Table 8B:  Project Financing ............................................ 25
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants ............................................ 26
Table 10:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................ 30
Table 11:  Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ................                  ............................ 31
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Missions ............................................                      32
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation Report
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP I)
(CREDIT No. 2287-LSO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Sector
Development Project (ESDP I) in Lesotho, for which Cr. 2287 in the amount of SDR 18.9
million (US$25.2 million equivalent at the prevailing exchange rate) was approved on July 19,
1991, and made effective on February 26, 1992.
The credit closed on June 30, 1999, after three extensions. The credit disbursed 99%,
leaving a balance of approximately SDR 730,000 which was canceled in September, 1999.
The ICR was prepared by Wes Snyder (Consultant, University of Montana) and Trish
Tierney (Operations Officer, AFTH1), with contributions and support from Lori Geurts (Team
Assistant). It was reviewed by Pamela Cox (Country Director for Lesotho) and Dzingai
Mutumbuka (Sector Manager, AFTH1).
This report was prepared following an ICR mission in November, 1999, comprising Trish
Tiemey (Team Leader) and Wes Snyder (Consultant). The ICR is based on information
collected during that mission and on material from the project files.
The Borrower participated in the preparation of the ICR by contributing to and
commenting on the Statistical Annexes, and by preparing a separate Completion Report (see
Appendix B). In addition, the Borrower provide detailed comments on the draft ICR.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
Lesotho Education Sector Development Project
(Cr. 2287-LSO)
Introduction
1.  Since becoming involved in Lesotho's education sector in 1974, the World Bank has
provided Lesotho US$56.7 million, including US$25.2 million under the Education Sector
Development Project (ESDP I). The funding, provided under five different projects, helped
development of the education sector keep pace with population growth by expanding enrollments
at the primary level, improved the quality of primary and secondary education, upgraded
vocational training facilities and established programs for non-formal education. The fifth
project, ESDP I, undertook a broad approach to sectoral reform in line with the Government of
Lesotho's (GOL) Fifth Five-Year Plan.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The Bank and the Government of Lesotho have consistently demonstrated strong
commitrnent to human development in Lesotho. ESDP I brought together various development
partners to provide financial and policy assistance in support of the reforms outlined by GOL.
The reform program focused on: (a) increasing the quality, efficiency, and relevance of
education programs, especially primary education; (b) addressing key management, financing
and resource allocation, and staffing issues which constrained overall sectoral performance; and
(c) increasing efficiency through better resource utilization.
3.  These objectives were set to address critical needs in the areas of basic education, such as
expanding access through the construction and furnishing of new classrooms. In order to
enhance the quality of education, the project aimed to revise curricula, develop instructional
materials, and strengthen the system of assessment. In addition to recruiting more teachers,
training for teachers at both pre- and in-service was planned to upgrade the standards of
teaching. To address the needs of students enrolled in Technical and Vocational Education
programs, the project proposed to introduce standardized craft curricula, strengthen skills
certification and testing, and improve policy and management capacity within the sub-sector.
The project planned to support the National University of Lesotho in its efforts to introduce
quality enhancement and cost containment measures. Finally, the objectives included improving
sectoral management by reorganizing the MOE, promoting decentralization and enhancing
school-level management.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.   Project Implementation -Procurement. Procurement began slowly, due to understaffing
and ineffective organization. In addition, the Bank revised its procurement guidelines after the
DCA was signed, and this caused some confusion. In response to these problems, MOE
reorganized the EFU and hired a procurement agent to provide technical assistance and train
EFU staff. Through concerted, combined effort by MOE and the Bank, EFU capacity was



Evaluation Summary                                                            ii
significantly strengthened throughout the project. Procurement of goods, in particular, improved
over the last few years of the project.
5.  Project Implementation -Financial Management. Financial management presented
problems throughout the project, mostly stemming from weak capacity and perpetual
understaffing. There were consistent difficulties with maintaining up-to-date records, although
internal controls were generally adequate and responsibilities were logically allocated. The
Accounts Section made important progress and entered into ESDP II a much stronger and more
capable unit.
6.   Basic Education. This component was satisfactorily implemented and, overall, achieved
its objectives. Under the project, the MOE exceeded expectations for civil works by building
1,094 new classrooms, 241 offices, 2,200 latrines and renovating 49 classrooms. Despite
initially weak capacity for procurement of goods, all associated furniture was provided for new
classrooms and over half of existing classrooms were furnished. Ten District Resource Centers
(DRCs) were constructed, furnished and made operational.
7.   The project also provided significant quality inputs.  The National Curriculum
Development Centre (NCDC) reviewed and revised the entire primary curriculum, trial-tested
the materials, evaluated their effectiveness and trained teachers in their use. Full implementation
of the new curriculum will be achieved in 2001. The curriculum for junior secondary school has
been reviewed and revised and is being tested. The project improved the organizational
infrastructure supporting examinations. The Primary School Leaving Exam (PSLE) is now
under management and supervision of a newly formed unit, the Examinations Council of
Lesotho (ECOL). ECOL received a renovated building, expanded staff and new management.
The administration component of PSLE and JCE still require strengthening and ECOL will
receive support through a twinning arrangement under ESDP II.
8.  National Teacher Training College. NTTC improved its infrastructure under ESDP I.
More faculty have been trained and the college initiated new programs to improve teacher
education. Graduate numbers increased but the expanded numbers did not meet expectations.
This was largely due to the withdrawal of USAID funds during its Africa-wide reduction of
funding support. The renovation of student hostels under ESDP II should allow NTTC to meet
its original goal of expanded enrollment capacity. Significant improvements were made in
programming by upgrading pre- and in-service training.
9.    During the plan period, 1,400 primary school teachers were hired and over 70% of these
allocated to Standards 1 to 3. This has resulted in a lower pupil:teacher ratio of 47:1 at the
primary level. As the GOL implements Free Primary Education beginning with Standard One in
January 2000, ESDP II activities aimed at supporting development of additional teachers will
play a critical role in maintaining these improvements.
10. Technical & Vocational Education. This component only partially achieved the
expected results.  The Technical and Vocational Department (TVD) experienced severe
problems of understaffing, a high level of dependency on technical assistance and a lack of
strong leadership in the area of policy development. Most of the agreed studies were carried out



Evaluation Summary                                                            iii
but with limited impact. Evening classes were introduced at only one of the 12 technical and
vocational schools expected. A review of the TVE Act did not produce any results due to
inactivity of the TVE Board and weak institutional capacity. A key achievement of this period
was the passage of the Lerotholi Polytechnic (LP) Act, granting LP autonomy. In addition, six
craft curricula were standardized and are currently used in 8 institutions.
11. National University of Lesotho. Achievements under this component were negligible.
The cost containment study was completed but, to date, a limited number of recommendations
have been implemented and those few have not improved the efficiency of the university as its
budget continues to grow. The library was computerized and books provided. The unit system
was revised and NUL now uses a modified subject system. However, this system is
implemented only to a varying degree across departments and it is not clear that any
improvements in student outcomes have eventuated as a result. After many delays, the project
made significant improvements in NUL's capacity for science research and instruction. It
remains to be seen whether NUL will properly maintain the science laboratories and equipment
provided under the project.
12. Sectoral Management. During the project, MOE made significant improvements in this
area. The MOE completed a reorganization process and improved its monitoring and evaluation
capacity. Understaffing remains a concern in several departments. The Education Act of 1995
provides the legal framework for establishing a partnership between parents, proprietors and the
GOL through Advisory School Committees (ACS). The enactment of the law was severely
delayed by disagreements over the composition of the ASC representation. The subsequent
establishment of over 800 ASCs has positively impacted parental participation in education
services. The establishment of 10 District Resource Centers (DRCs) further strengthened the
devolution of educational operations to the districts and schools. The District Resource Teachers
(DRTs) provide essential support to rural schools.
13. Bank Performance. Bank performance in project preparation, identification and appraisal
was satisfactory, while its performance during supervision was highly satisfactory. Through
periods of political unrest and changes in political leadership, the Bank provided consistent
advice and support which helped enable the MOE to keep the project on track. Consultation was
valued and openly practiced by all parties. The Bank team demonstrated a strong understanding
of issues on the ground and greatly improved donor coordination.
14. Borrower Performance. The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory, and
highly satisfactory during project preparation. Activities in the MOE tend to center on events
rather than a continuous process toward common objectives and goals. However, departmental
leadership has improved significantly under the reorganized structure of MOE. Understaffmg,
especially at the Planning Unit, accounts for much of the capacity problems. The failure to meet
some conditionalities delayed the release of USAID funds and eventually resulted in the loss of
the last tranche from USAID. The Bank's conditions of disbursement were met and some were
changed as per a feasibility study. The MOE, especially the Planning Unit, worked consistently
with the Bank to ensure progress.



Evaluation Summary                                                            iv
Future Operations and Sustainability
15. The project has built a good foundation for educational improvements by modernizing
many schools, as well as the instructional program. Because Lesotho's economic fortunes have
improved with the income from the Lesotho Highlands Water Project and the legal frameworks
for education and the consulting mechanisms are in place, the gains should be sustainable. The
future operations of the Ministry rely heavily on the implications of Free Primary Education
(FPE), which will be implemented gradually beginning in January 2000. The ongoing project,
ESDP II, will provide consistent and valuable support that will help ensure improvements in the
sector are maintained and built upon.
Lessons Learned
16. The implementation of ESDP I has demonstrated the advantages and disadvantages of
donor coordination. While working with several donors provides needed leverage and support, it
also requires persistent consultation and good planning, particular with regard to changes in
financing. Another lesson presented here is that without adequate leadership in a department or
sub-sector, investment will ultimately have little/no impact. Investments are better focused on
areas with strong leadership and vision. Clear procurement regulations are critical to smooth
implementation progress, and advice from the Bank must be consistent. It is difficult to have a
positive impact on implementation capacity without support from the Government in terms of
staffing key positions.



Project Implementation Assessment                                              1
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction and Background
1.  Human resource development faces many challenges in the renewed democracy of
Lesotho. Lesotho is landlocked, has severely limited natural resources, and remains heavily
reliant, economically, on South Africa. Over the last decade, the country has suffered political
disturbances, differences in political leadership, police strikes, and continuing shortages in
resources and personnel. The context of the Education Sector Development Project (ESDP I) is
marked by the successful retention of a democratic government despite many attempts to derail
the process, re-examination by Lesotho of its role within the SADC region and emergence from
aid dependency to economic independence attributed to revenues accrued from the Lesotho
Highlands Water Project.' Stresses on the education system have included teachers' strikes,
complex negotiations with various stakeholders, financial limitations, and changes in educational
management. Out of these opportunities and difficulties have arisen many accomplishments in
the arena of human resource development and vastly improved physical facilities that provide a
better foundation for strengthening Lesotho's education sector.
2.   The guiding vision in education has been the GOL's Fifth Five-Year Plan. Despite many
diversions and ambiguities in recent times, this sectoral reform plan has provided direction to the
activities, organizational changes, and policies in education. ESDP I provided financing and
policy development support to the reforms. Governments of Lesotho have consistently
recognized the importance of human resource development, and ESDP I has kept attention on the
central elements of this goal. The project arose within the context of the fifth development plan,
and it reflects the extensive consultations, in-depth analyses, and broad organizational and
financial reviews. The consultative process included the macroeconomic dialogues between
Government, the IMF, and the Bank, that went into the derivation of sectoral emphases. The
project was developed in order to address perceived needs in curriculum development, teacher
training, technical and vocational education and training, basic education, university education
and sectoral management.
3.   Two significant risks were recognized from the outset: the political context and the extent
of support for education that might emerge from the uncertain fiscal climate. Politics have
loomed over implementation of project activities, but increased educational budgetary
allocations have received consistent support.
Project Objectives
4.   The Education Sector Development Project (1991/92 to 1995/96, extended to 1999)
brought Bank and other donor resources together to facilitate implementation of Lesotho's
reform program focusing on:
Increasing the quality, efficiency, and relevance of educational programs, especially primary
education;
Country Assistance Strategy, January, 1996.



Project Implementation Assessment                                              2
* Addressing key management, financing and resource allocation, and staffing issues which
constrain overall sectoral performance; and
* Increasing efficiency through better resource utilization
5.  ESDP I was a comprehensive sector approach to the development of realistic investment
strategies to address structural issues in sectoral management and quality and efficiency issues in
schooling implementation. The Bank has been the coordinating partner for donors and
investments during this plan period. Project management personnel in the Bank and the Planning
Unit, MOE have remained consistent, cohesive, and focused on project outcomes rather than
local insufficiencies. As a leading investor, the Bank's resources have provided continuity to the
investment package and have seen the project through its ups and downs as the prospects for the
society in general have varied. Continuity overrode the uncertainties of an emerging democracy.
6.   The specific project objectives were to:
Basic Education
*  Construct new primary school classrooms and sanitary facilities
3 Furnish new and existing classrooms at primary level
*  Develop new curriculum and instructional materials for basic education
* Improve the system of assessment
*  Recruit additional teachers, especially in lower primary
*  Provide increased professional support for teachers
* Improve efficiency in student flow
National Teacher Training College
* Strengthen teacher education and training institutional capacity
* Facilitate expansion of teacher output
• Upgrade standards
Technical and Vocational Education
* Introduce standardization of craft curricula
* Strengthen skills certification and testing
* Improve policy studies in technical and vocational education
National University of Lesotho
* Introduce quality enhancement and cost containment at the university
Sectoral Management
*  Assist in reorganizing the central Ministry of Education (MOE)
* Promote and support decentralization
*  Enhance school-level management
* Improve monitoring and evaluation for sectoral management
7.  In the initial planning for ESDP I, cooperation was secured from IDA, EU, and USAID.
Many donors ultimately took part in various aspects of project initiatives. Development partners



Project Implementation Assessment                                              3
included IDA, African Development Bank, European Union, Irish Aid, GTZ, USAID, UNDP,
UNICEF, UNCDF, World Food Program, Save the Children, and the Bernard van Leer
Foundation. Total investment came to approximately M260 million (approximately US$ 43
million). The three largest partners were IDA, EU and USAID.
8.  Evaluation of Project Objectives. The scope and number of project objectives, touching
all major areas of the sector, indicate the complexity of the project. These project objectives were
clear and in line with the GOL strategy as per the Fifth Five-Year Plan. Previous projects had
addressed sectoral needs in a more narrowly-focused, fragmented manner. During identification
and appraisal, the Bank team and the GOL agreed that it would be appropriate to undertake a
more broad, sectoral approach.  Despite capacity problems, which often stemmed from
understaffing, the objectives were generally appropriate and the achievement of objectives
overall has been achieved.
Achievement of Project Objectives
9.   Overall, the project objectives were met. The extent of accomplishment varied
considerably across sub-sectors, and the details in Table 5 depict uneven development in the
sector. This is not surprising given the dissimilar constraints and varying capacities across sub-
sectors. The detailed achievements, by component, are discussed in the following section. In
summary, the achievements of the components are rated as follows: Basic Education -
Substantial; Teacher Training - Substantial; TVE - Partial; NUL - Negligible; Sectoral
Management - Substantial.
10. The Basic Education component exceeded expectations for civil works by building 826
new primary school classrooms (versus 510 planned classrooms) and providing latrines, offices
and furniture. The MOE reviewed and implemented a revised primary school curriculum and
localized examinations. The targeted number of 1,300 additional teachers were hired and 70%
allocated to Standards 1-3 in order to enhance quality. Efficiency improvements resulting from
ESDP I include a lower repetition rate and fewer under- and over-age school entrants. The
project strengthened teacher support by holding in-service workshops and hiring 70 District
Resource Teachers. Capacity at the National Teacher Training College (NTTC) was improved
through construction of 12 new student hostels, computerization of the library, construction of a
new administration block and overseas fellowships for 13 lecturers. Under the TVE component,
a key accomplishment was the passage of the LP Act which granted LP autonomy. Six craft
curricula were standardized and implemented at 8 institutions and some evening courses were
introduced, although a lower number than planned. The review of the TVE Act did not result in
hoped for revisions and, in general, leadership and vision for policy development in TVE
remained weak throughout implementation of this component. The NUL conducted a cost-
containment study but implemented only a limited number of the recommendations, having little
positive impact on budget management and resource utilization. The NUL library was
computerized and received books, and a science wing was built and equipped. The final
component, Sectoral Management, achieved a successful reorganization of MOE. Ten District
Resource Centers were built and are in use. The GOL passed the Education Act in 1995, and this
has greatly enhanced community participation in the delivery of education.



Project Implementation Assessment                                              4
Project Implementation Experience and Results
11. Implementation of several components began slowly, partially due to weak capacity in
MOE and worsened by the difficulty MOE experienced in filling key positions. Strong
commitment by MOE and Bank project staff overcame financial management and procurement
problems, and the project was implemented in a satisfactory manner. The IDA credit was
extended three times, ultimately providing MOE two additional years for implementation.
Extensions were granted based on several factors, including that the project became effective one
year after gaining approval by the Board. When the EU provided additional grant funds not
included in the original financing plan, the Bank appropriately fulfilled its role as lender of last
resort. This created a significant disbursement lag. Disagreement between GOL and churches
with regard to the Education Act caused delays in the initial years of the project, as did
difficulties arising from problems MOE faced in meeting the USAID conditionalities. The
political disturbances in September, 1998, again disrupted implementation and led to the final
extension. All in all, the extensions were justified, and the resource flows provided a continuity
of direction for the education system during these difficult times. The accomplishments were
achieved incrementally, and many resulted late in the extension period. Project success would
have looked very different if the credit extensions were not granted.
12. Project Implementation - Procurement. Procurement began slowly, burdened by
understaffing and ineffective organization. The procurement arrangement within EFU was
initially too segmented and structured around unclear lines of responsibility.  Additional
confusion with regard to procurement came from unclear guidelines as to the application of DCA
provisions versus national laws of Lesotho. The GOL attributed procurement problems to
changes in the Bank's guidelines after the DCA was signed and high staff turnover of Bank
procurement specialists.2 Despite these minor differences in perspective, both the MOE and the
Bank worked each problem through, further demonstrating the focused and sustained
management effort that marked this project. Procurement of goods, in particular, improved
during the last two years of the project. In 1996/97, EFU was re-structured and a procurement
agent provided assistance in the procurement of goods and services and trained EFU staff. A
detailed review of the procurement situation in early 1999 noted the successful training of EFU
staff, and recommended that EFU no longer needs an agent doing the work for them. Occasional
short-term technical assistance should suffice.
13. Project Implementation - Financial Management. Financial management problems
persisted throughout the project. The Accounts Section of MOE was perpetually understaffed
and had difficulty in attracting professionals with the appropriate qualifications. However, the
Accounts Section of MOE did make progress throughout the project period. A Financial
Management Specialist from the Bank conducted a review during the third year of the project
and found the internal controls adequate and staff responsibilities appropriately divided. The
review also noted that the Accounts Section ensured Planning Unit decisions complied with
World Bank procurement procedures. However, there were consistent problems with keeping
the accounting records up to date, and also with the practice of the Auditor General's office
preparing the accounts as well as conducting the audit. The MOE implemented several
recommendations from the Specialist's report and these issues are also gaining support under
2 Borrowers Perspective on Implementation Completion Report, ESDP, July, 1999. See attachments.



Project Implementation Assessment                                              5
ESDP II. A professional Financial Manager has been hired, along with staff in several lower
tier positions. The Accounts Section has computerized its accounting system and developed a
detailed Financial Procedures Manual.
14. Financing. The European Union, USAID and IDA provided the majority of financing for
ESDP I, with the three coordinating fairly well with the MOE. However, a set of problems did
emerge from the long list of conditionalities associated with the grant agreement with USAID.
These conditionalities were extensive, rigidly applied, and were treated as legal statements that
were difficult to further negotiate. The failure to meet some of the conditionalities severely
delayed the second tranche of money from USAID and jeopardized project financing. Continued
problems in meeting the USAID conditionalities eventually resulted in loss of the last tranche of
funds. USAID/Lesotho lost its efforts to keep the funds in the finance restructuring of USAID
across the world. Fortunately, the European Union filled some of the gap, and USAID's
Regional Office has provided funds for limited activities. The Bank's additional conditions of
disbursement were met, and some were changed as a result of feasibility studies conducted
during the project. As the Borrower's Completion Report points out, the GOL met all its
financial obligations to the project. The GOL's readiness and compliance to these conditions
contributed significantly to the success of the project.
15. Capacity in MOE. Despite the interrelationships of problems in Lesotho, the MOE tends
to be fragmented in its responses (e.g., each individual department or center operates fairly
independently). Attempts at integration of activities and products are vested in weak committee
structures that yield representation but not meaningful collaboration or coordination. The
integration of project activities related to these objectives rested in the Planning Unit. The
Planning Unit probed, prodded, and encouraged the various units to carry out their particular
responsibilities, and kept them on task and timely to the extent possible. Curriculum, exams, and
teacher education management stabilized during the plan period and that improved project
potential. However, the Planning Unit was still the integrating group for the MOE. Fortunately,
Planning has had consistently good leadership, even though it is vastly understaffed. Clearly, this
unit merits more assistance within the establishment of the organization and the assignment of
personnel. They have used their personnel efficiently and kept this complex project on track. One
of the hallmarks of this project has been the cooperative relationship between the Planning Unit
and the Bank project personnel, and the good relationship fostered good communication
throughout the sector.
16. Basic Education. Implementation of this component was satisfactory. Improvements are
clearly evident within the basic education program, specifically in the following sub-
components.
17. Civil Works. Many schools benefited from the receipt of improved and new facilities.
The Borrower's Report notes that implementation of civil works was initially delayed due to the
slow pace at which the Ministries of Works and of Finance granted a waiver to MOE to
implement the civil works component through the Education Facilities Unit (EFU). According
to MOE, this problem was mainly due to the existing financial regulations that have not been
amended since independence to accommodate emerging developments. There were also delays
in signing contracts, by relevant authorities, after contracts had been awarded and in approving
requisitions, orders and processing payments.



Project Implementation Assessment                                              6
18. The EFU was initially overwhelmed by the number of GOL, IDA, European Union, and
AfDB civil works projects. The MOE created the position of an EFU coordinator, not originally
planned for, which led to duplicity of direction. In 1997, MOE re-organized EFU which is now
functioning very well. Overall, the procurement of civil works proceeded well, and in time,
accomplishments exceeded planned targets. These accomplishments were afforded by additional
funds from the EU, and were all the more remarkable because the project overcame a setback
after the USAID pullout that left a $13 million gap in project funding that included civil works.
The idea of renovating existing classrooms was abandoned after EFU realized most lacked sound
foundations and renovations would prove more costly than building new classrooms. Of the
classroom shells built, communities completed just over half, suggesting that it may be
unrealistic in poverty-stricken areas to expect that level of community contribution.
19. Curriculum and Assessment. The National Curriculum Development Centre (NCDC)
provided continuous leadership to the reform program as it reviewed and revised the entire
primary curriculum, trialed the materials, evaluated their effectiveness, and trained teachers in
their use. The design and content of subject syllabi were improved in all subjects, and full
implementation of the new curriculum will be achieved in 2001. The Teachers' Guide for the
Primary Syllabus 1-3 was produced for schools in 1998. Useful programs, including radio
instruction for English and Sesotho and a quarterly Sesotho supplementary reader for Standards
1-3, called Mahlaseli, were continued and improved.
20. At the other end of basic education, the junior secondary curriculum in 14 subjects is now
being tested in trial schools. The form of supporting materials for teachers will differ across
subjects. Based on the fine work carried out in the primary curriculum, ESDP I funding was
extended to cover these revisions at the junior secondary level. Syllabi for most junior secondary
subjects have been revised and streamlined in varying degrees. Implementation will begin in
2000 with the core subjects of English, Sesotho, Maths, and two optional subjects (Business
Education and Typewriting). Some supporting materials, such as teachers' guides, manuals or
handbooks, have been produced and are in trial schools. This work has proceeded systematically
and steadily. There is confidence that this part of the ESDP I effort is sustainable under NCDC.
21. The project improved the organizational infrastructure supporting examinations by
bringing the system under the management of the Examinations Council of Lesotho (ECOL).
ECOL was provided a renovated building, expanded its personnel, and was put under new
management. Responsibility for the Primary School Leaving Exam (PSLE) was transferred to
ECOL, thus bringing primary education under local control. The Junior Certificate Exam (JCE)
was localized through the University of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland (UBLS) Schools
Examinations Council (SEC), headquartered in Lesotho. It was anticipated that the SEC would
localize the COSC as well, but the demise of regional cooperation left Lesotho on its own. The
administration of the PSLE and JCE still require strengthening. Further improvements await the
development of technical competence within ECOL to develop and analyze their items and
exams and carry out the needed research to improve the examination program, planned under
ESDP II.
22. Teacher Recruitment. The new Teaching Service Commission (TSC) was established to
improve the allocation of teachers, limiting the school proprietors' responsibility in the hiring
and assigning of teachers. With the new legal and regulatory framework, TSC should be able to



Project Implementation Assessment                                              7
ensure deployment based on real need. One of the clear benefits of ESDP I was the
regularization of grants to schools to hire teachers. The system is more efficient; the incentive to
exaggerate school statistics is now lower; and system confidence, higher. Recruitment of
teachers was successful during the first couple years of project implementation, then the pool of
qualified teachers was exhausted. Grants continued but were used to hire uncertified teachers.
These teachers were assigned to upper level grades and qualified teachers re-deployed to
Standards 1-3. The substantial increase of teachers in the system has resulted in lower
pupil:teacher ratio.
23. National Teacher Training College. This component was implemented satisfactorily.
More teachers were hired, and more qualified teachers were placed in the lower standards.
Teacher education now inhabits better facilities and has many more trained faculty and new
programs that purport to improve teacher education. NTTC gained autonomy, which constituted
a major accomplishment for the project. Implementation of the autonomy has been slow, but is
now planned for April 2000. Physical facilities have been improved by the addition of the
administration block funded by Irish Aid, and the project provided extensive support to the
library, its automation and security. The inputs of ESDP I were absorbed usefully by NTTC in
bringing its facilities up to a reasonable standard. Funding was not sufficient to bring about the
level of output hoped for, and therefore, ESDP I enabled improvements in quality at NTTC but
not significant expansion. It remains for ESDP II to ensure this expansion. MOE has become
more familiar with the benefits of distance education and plans to utilize this medium of
instruction to improve teacher's qualification.
24. Graduate numbers from NTTC, in 1996, increased to 385 in the Lesotho In-service
Education for Teachers (LIET-PTC) and 96 Primary Teacher's Certificate (PTC) III graduates.
Planned increases in enrollment had anticipated expansion to approximately 1,100 entrants and
larger graduating classes. The main obstacle was the withdrawal of funds anticipated from the
USAID program, which did not materialize when USAID reduced its program across Africa and
particularly in Lesotho. With the renovation of hostels planned under ESDP II, enrollments can
increase to the criterion size. On the programming side, the LIET program was upgraded in 1993
to equivalency to the PTC. The Pre-service PTC was upgraded to a Diploma program with 101
and 185 new entrants in 1998 and 1999 respectively. An In-service Division was established to
meet the differential requirements of pre-service and in-service training.
25. Technical & Vocational Education. The plans outlined in the SAR anticipated
development in the management and human resources of TVE that did not fully materialize.
Implementation and management capacity remained low for most of the project period. The
supervision reports repeatedly noted over-dependence on technical assistance. The transition
from the management of TVE by the Lerotholi Polytechnic to management by the Technical and
Vocational Division (TVD) has not progressed smoothly. TVD has not exerted leadership in the
field, and the department lacks a clear vision for policy development. The main accomplishment
of this period was the passage of the Lerotholi Polytechnic Act of 1997. This guaranteed LP's
autonomy and increased the prospects of developing more attractive conditions of service for
professional personnel. However, it means that TVD must take over the coordination of TVE
activities in the country, and it is not certain that TVD is ready for that undertaking. A review of
the TVE Act was conducted in 1992, but the report did not lead to action because of the
inactivity of the Board and the lack of institutional capacity of TVD.



Project Imp!ementation Assessment                                              8
26. Various studies were carried out to examine the needs and opportunities for TVE. Six craft
curricula were standardized, including automotive, bricklaying, carpentry and joinery, electrical
installation, commercial studies, and home science. These are used in 8 institutions, and evening
courses were introduced at only one institution (LP) of the twelve planned. The skills'
certification/ trade-testing centre was cancelled based on the recommendation of a feasibility
study. Funds were reallocated to the provision of new physical facilities; and equipment, to
Thaba-Tseka Technical Institute and the Leloaleng Trade School. In addition, equipment was
provided to all vocational schools.
27. National University of Lesotho. Estimates of the interest and extent of participation by
the National University of Lesotho (NUL) were overly optimistic. A large share of the recurrent
budget of the MOE is invested in NUL and for this reason the project sought ways to enhance the
quality of university programs while developing cost containment strategies to lower the share of
financial resources used by tertiary education. A study by a British firm made recommendations
for cost-containment measures. However, NUL implemented only a limited number of the
report's recommendations, and those implemented had a negligible impact on the overall costs of
the university. In fact, the share of the MOE's recurrent budget allocated for tertiary (mostly to
NUL) has doubled since 1990, without commensurate quality improvements.
28. The library was computerized; and books, supplied. NUL implemented a modified course
unit system, but staff were not trained on its use or purpose and confusion continues to reign. It
is not clear that any improvements have eventuated as a result of introducing the modified
system. Significant improvements made in the science facilities and equipment at NUL are
impressive. However, the expanded capacity for science research and study will have little
impact if NUL does not allocate sufficient budget for maintenance and supplies. Twenty NUL
staff members went for degrees at the Masters level or above.
29. Sectoral Management. The reorganization of the central MOE was completed. This
resulted in significant improvements by creating a more efficient and well-structured work
environment. Some of the changes included the creation of a second tier of senior staff below the
Principal Secretary (CEOs); strengthening the Planning Unit by training five planners; and
establishing Field Services supervision. Monitoring and evaluation was boosted by the impact
assessments carried out under the auspices of the Planning Unit. However understaffing in
several departments continues to be of concern.
30. An important turning point for the education sector was the enactment of the Education
Act (No. 10) 1995. Parliament inculcated decentralization as a central democratic theme in
educational management, providing a framework for parents, proprietors, and the Government to
work together to improve education at the local, district, and national levels. The Education Act
was delayed for several years, primarily due to disagreements between the MOE and the
churches over the composition of the Advisory School Committees. Since then, great strides
have been made with the establishment, approval and training of approximately 800 Advisory
School Cormmittees to date. In the Borrower's Report, MOE recognizes the need for closer
cooperation and consultation between school proprietors, MOE and parents as this important
work goes forward.



Project Implementation Assessment                                              9
31. Ten District Resource Centres (DRCs) were built and now serve as the key facility for the
decentralization of educational operations to the districts. The District Resource Teachers
(DRTs) continue to successfully assist the rural schools and the cadre of DRTs is growing.
Education Officers (EOs) are closer to their schools and have increased opportunities to interact
with other district level agencies.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
32. Throughout the life of the project, the MOE underwent many changes of leadership at
various levels. Transition between the two Directors of Planning was smooth, and their
combined personal strength and competence helped to override much of change that could have
been damaging at the political levels above.
33. In addition to the personnel and organizational concerns, there have been major disruptions
experienced throughout the plan period. Conflicting contingents of the army fired shells over the
NTTC, hitting the library at one stage. Police strikes, continued army discontent, teachers'
strikes, and civil unrest eventually resulted in the burning of three towns in Lesotho. Two
warehouses full of books for primary students were razed. The transition to democracy remains
fragile, but confidence is growing.
Bank Performance
34.  Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory, with supervision rated as highly satisfactory.
Identification of the investment areas for ESDP I was tied to the MOE's Fifth Five-Year Plan.
The risks were fully realized and did eventuate as problems, but preparation was solid and
appropriate. Appraisal followed in June, 1991. By considering lessons learned from previous
operations in Lesotho, the Bank team enhanced the design of the project during appraisal. For
example, ESDP I committed to integrating the Planning Unit into the daily workings of the MOE
in order to improve upon the lack of ownership stemming from a more isolated PIU. The
relationship with the Planning Unit, established during Appraisal and sustained during
implementation, was solid. Previous projects in Lesotho also noted the strong correlation
between the quality of a school manager and the level of learning outcomes. This lesson served
as the basis for including school-level management as one of the sub-components of ESDP I.
The need to focus on the improvement of teachers' skills, not simply their qualifications,
prompted the design of the teacher support sub-component of ESDP I. In retrospect, the hopes
for TVE were unjustified at the time of appraisal. However, the objectives for TVE set by the
project did mirror those of the Government. The expectations of the University were reasonable
and measured but they were not realized and largely overwhelmed by other considerations. The
programming in the SAR provided direction and impetus for development even when vision was
blurred; and leadership, overly burdened.
35. In supervision, the problems unanticipated at time of appraisal and the new ones created by
a changing and disruptive environment were admirably handled. Consultation was valued and
openly practiced by all sides, and the project status reports clearly evidence the difficulties and
successes of this mutual management. There was a good understanding of the local problems by
the Bank, and useful communication with Basotho officials on project activities and needs.



Project Implementation Assessment                                             10
Borrower Performance
36. Borrower performance overall was satisfactory, with preparation rated as highly
satisfactory. The MOE's institutional capacity was weak at the start of the project, and despite
some continuing challenges, improvements have been made. The Planning Unit had its hands
full to motivate and organize efforts within departments. Departmental leadership has improved
significantly, although the understaffing of the Planning Unit continues to be of serious concern.
The problem partly stems from the lack of economic planners available in the local market, as
well as insufficient influence by Planning Unit over staffing decisions made by the Ministries of
Planning and Finance and Public Service. In order for MOE to effectively implement the
planned program of decentralization, qualified planners at the central and district level will be
critical. A decision to have district planners with cross-sectoral responsibilities has not yet been
implemented. The Planning Unit effectively capitalized on the Bank supervision. Conditions of
credit effectiveness served as the main vehicle for addressing the issues of school control and
issues of sector reform.
Assessment of Outcome
37. The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory, with important positive side effects
resulting from the cooperation of assistance agencies with MOE. ESDP I was an excellent plan,
created in cooperation by the Government and three external assistance agencies (EU, IDA and
USAID). It provided a direction to the fits and starts of a beleaguered MOE through difficult
times. The quality, efficiency and relevancy of education have been improved significantly at the
level of Basic Education, and to a lesser extent, in TVE and at NUL. The project strengthened
management capacity within the Planning Unit, NCDC, ECOL and NTTC. However, TVE and
NUL today face management problems similar to those present at the start of the project.
Staffing issues are a problem throughout the sector, as the pool of qualified professionals in
country is rather limited. However, many staff were trained and gained valuable experience that
served the sector well and contributed to the successful project implementation. Overall, the
system is more efficient with lower repetition rates, less under- and over-age entrants, and with
decentralized management at the district level. With the passage of the Education Act, increased
investment in school facilities, improved curriculum, creation and activation of the Teacher
Service Division, and the implementation of decentralization features, the influence and control
of Government in the sector has increased drarnatically.
Project Sustainability and Future Operation
38. The project has built a good foundation for further educational improvements. The project
has modernized many schools, as well as the instructional program. Because Lesotho's economic
fortunes have improved with the income from the Lesotho Highlands Water Project, and the
legal frameworks for education and the consulting mechanisms are in place, the gains should be
sustainable.
39. In addition to addressing some new concerns, ESDP II continues or expands upon support
begun under ESDP I in several components, classroom construction, school-level management,
curriculum and assessment, teacher training and support, policy development in TVE and
institutional capacity building within the MOE. This will provide a valuable means of support to



Project Implementation Assessment                                               11
ensure that improvements in the sector will be maintained and built upon. The support, both
financial and technical, will play a key role as GOL implements its policy of Free Primary
Education (FPE), beginning in January, 2000. The introduction of FPE will help Lesotho meets
its commitment to providing Universal Primary Education by 2011.
Key Lessons Learned
40. Future projects may benefit by considering the following lessons:
(a) Cooperation of the external assistance agencies, forged at the time of project conception,
provides needed leverage, coordination, and focus to project activities which may be
politically sensitive. However, coordination and changes in available donor funding can
significantly impact project implementation.
(b) Normally, the sectoral approach merely assumes the integration of efforts, and therefore, fails
to actively forge the linkages needed and is a disappointing strategy despite its theoretical
appeal. In this case, the sectoral approach was effective as it was coupled with continuous
management by the Planning Unit and the assistance agencies, particularly the Bank.
(c) Unless personnel and resources are applied to M&E, it will not be a useful contributor in the
management process and more external resources may have to be expended in order to get
the information needed.
(d) In all cases of accomplishment in ESDP I, there was adequate leadership. Without leadership
the likelihood of effective use of resources is minimal, and investment is ill advised until
such time this lack is addressed.
(e) Investment in inspectorate activities in resource poor environments does not result in closer
supervision or inspection. Supportive services (e.g., DRTs) are more effective development
agents. The supervision of a school should be placed in the hands of competent local
management.
(f) Clear procurement regulations and relevant local experience in procurement are essential for
an effective procurement process. In addition, the Bank must be consistent in the
procurement advice it provides to Borrowers. The MOF and its line ministries must have a
clear understanding as to when DCA procurement provisions apply versus national
regulations. Clear communication on this matter will help avoid undue delays and confusion.
(g) Government must support key components in the development process, particularly planning
and finance. Development efforts are much more difficult without adequate staffing of these
units.
(h) The supervision process of the Bank must be active and involved. Assisting the Government
to meet plan objectives entails constant interaction and external consultation. Sometimes an
external source has access and attention that an internal source cannot create. This helps
maintain momentum and direction. Mutual concern and consultation is not interference.



Statistical Annexes                                                                        12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Summary Of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives     Substantial      Partial      PXNepgible   Not
: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~______  _____ ::                . E            Appliabe:XA0
Macro Policies                                                                XX
Sector Policies              _XX
Financial Objectives                                              XX
Institutional Development                        XX
Physical Objectives              XX
Poverty Reduction                                                             XX
Gender Issues                                    _XX
Other Social Objectives                                                       XX
Environmental Objectives                                                      XX
Public Sector Management                         XX
Private Sector Management                      _ L                            XX
B. Components: Achievements
of Objective__ _ _ _ _ _ _                           _ _ _ _ _
Basic Education                  XX
Teacher Training               |XX
Technical & Vocational Education                .XX
National University of Lesotho                   _XX
Sectoral Management              XX
C. Project Soaibli               Likel             nlikloy :_rtain 
___ _ _ _ __  _XX__ 
D. Bank Perfiomance              Highly          Satisfctoryq     Deficient
:  .  :                 i~~~~~~Satisfctoryt     :  :00j:   : A: :ii:
Identification                                   XX
Creparation Assistance                           XX
Appraisal                                         _x
Supervision                      x
Preparation                      XX
Implementation                                   YXX
Covenant Compliance                              XX
Operation                                        XX
F. Assessment of Outcome                         XX
2 Project sustainability depends to a large extent on the stability of Lesotho through the next election and into
democratic govermment. These factors lie outside the education sector.



Statistical Annexes                                                                             1 3
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit                        Purpose                Year of Board    Status
Approval/
Loan Amount
in US$ MlID.
Past Operations
1. Education Project       Expanded/upgraded vocational,            1974          Closed
(Cr. 4970)                technical, and commercial education;     US$ 4.0     March 31, 1979
provided education to out-of-school
youth and adults
2. Second Education Project Constructed curriculum development      1977           Closed
(Cr. 7480)                 center and secondary schools, provided  US$7.5       Dec. 31, 1982
equipment and vehicles, technical
assistance, and fellowships
3. Third Education Project   Improved quality and efficiency in     1981           Closed
(Cr. 11480)                primary and vocational education       US$ 10.0    Sept. 30, 1987
4. Fourth Education Project   Reduced overcrowding; increased the   1984           Closed
(Cr. 15120)                availability of instructional materials,  US$ 10.0   Sept. 30, 1991
and upgraded unqualified teachers
Planned Operation
1. Community Development  The dual objectives are: (a) to      Approved by
Support Project (Social Fund) demonstrate the effectiveness of a  RVP 12/20/99
demand-driven approach to supporting    US$ 4.7
community development through a
phased implementation of a multi-
sectoral special fund; and (b) to
strengthen Lesotho's capacity to monitor
the scope and trends of poverty in the
country.
On-going Operations
1. Second Education Sector  Increase access and equity at the primary  1999
Development Project        school level in order to lay the       US$21.0         Effective
(Cr. 3192)                 foundation for achieving universal
primary education by 2011, and also
improve the quality of primary and
secondary education. The project will
also assist in policy formulation and
capacity building in ECD, TVET and
NFE.



Statistical Annexes                                                                      14
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: Project Timetable
Step,*in Prct cyle             Date Planne               Date Attual
Identification                                                  July31, 1989
Preparation                                                  November 26, 1990
Appraisal                             March 1991               March 11, 1991
Negotiations                           May 1991                 May 20, 1991
Board Presentation                                               July 9, 1991
Signing                                                         July 19, 1991
Effectiveness                        September 1991           February 26, 1992
Changes to the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA):
Schedule 1                                                      October 1996
Section 2.03 (closing date) and       March 1997                 March 1998
Schedule 1 & 2
Section 2.03 03 (closing date) and    March 1998               December 1998
Schedule I
Section 2.03 03 (closing date) and   December 1998               June 1999
Schedule I
Mid-Term Review                                              December 16, 1995
Project Completion                                              June 30, 1999
Loan Closing                                                  October 31, 1999



Statistical Annexes                                                                            15
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
SAR Estimates                     Actual             Actual cummul. As
%  of credit
Yr/Quarter  Quarterly  Cummul.    Quarterly    Cummul.                        Credit
(US$ millions)               (US$ millions)
FY92   Q3        0.00        0.00           2.08           2.08                8.3%
Q4       0.09        0.90           0.09           2.17                8.6%
FY93   Ql        0.30        0.39           0.13           2.30                9.1%
Q2       0.40        0.79           0.11           2.41                9.6%
Q3       0.80        1.59           0.19           2.60               10.3%
Q4       0.90        2.49           0.16           2.76               11.0%
FY94   Ql        0.90        3.39           0.20           2.96               11.7%
Q2       0.90        4.29           0.31           3.27               13.0%
Q3       1.00        5.29           0.41           3.68               14.6%
Q4       1.00        6.29           0.30           3.98               15.8%
FY95   Ql        1.20        7.49           0.23           4.21               16.7%
Q2       1.29        8.78           0.03           4.24               16.8%
Q3       1.10        9.78           0.64           4.88               19.4%
Q4       1.10        10.78          0.13           5.01               19.9%
FY96   Ql        1.10        11.78          0.90           5.91               23.5%
Q2       1.10        12.88          0.90           6.81               27.0%
Q3       1.20        14.08          0.85           7.66               30.4%
Q4       1.29        15.37          0.57           8.23               32.7%
FY97   Ql        1.20        16.57           1.27          9.50               37.7%
Q2       1.29        17.86          0.47           9.97               39.6%
Q3       1.50        19.36          0.39           10.36              41.1%
Q4       1.50        20.86          0.68           11.04              43.8%
FY98  Ql         1.40        22.26          0.41           11.45              45.4%
Q2       1.40        23.66          0.34           11.79              46.8%
Q3       0.69        24.35          0.75           12.54              49.8%
Q4       0.80        25.15           1.37          13.91              55.2%
FY99  Ql         0.00        25.15          3.76           17.67              70.1%
Q2       0.00        25.15          2.36           20.03              79.5%
Q3       0.00        25.15           1.74          21.77              86.4%
Q4       0.00        25.15          3.02           24.79              98.4%
FY00   Ql        0.00        25.15          0.39           25.18              99.9%
Q2       0.00        25.15          0.00           25.18              99.9%



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                       16
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 5: Key Indicators Of Project Implementation
INDICATORS                      ESTIMATED AT                              ACTUAL                             COMMENTS
APPRAISAL
A. BASIC EDUCATION
1. Provide new primary      Construct 510 new primary school      Completed the construction of 826 new    Number of classroom shells reduced
school classrooms with   classrooms, 340 new classroom shells,    classrooms, 268 new classroom shells,   to alleviate hardship on the
sanitary facilities.    1,760 units of VIDP latrines, and     2,188 units of VIDP latrines, renovated    community. Approximately 60%
rehabilitate 200 classrooms.          49 classrooms, and built 241 new offices  now enclosed. Renovation of
for headteachers.                     existing classrooms reduced because
they were uneconomical.
2. Furnish new and existing  Furnish 850 new classrooms, shells, and   Provided furniture for 1,094 new
primary school          200 renovated classrooms; provide desks  classrooms and shells and 49 renovated
classrooms.             for 50% of the students without them.  classrooms; provided 98,184 students
with furniture; and furnished 241 offices.
3. Curriculum development  Review and revise primary school       Revised syllabi and developed materials.  Informal reports from the field
at primary level.       curriculum and design accompanying                                           indicate new curriculum is well
materials.                                                                  received.
4. Produce/disseminate      Develop, produce, and distribute pupils'   Distributed learning materials to all  The Science kits were not formally
instructional materials at  workbooks in core primary subjects;  schools and provided 1,050 radios, 3,500   appraised for appropriateness. They
primary level.          provide 3 vehicles to Supply Unit;    book lockers, 1,200 science kits,      were issued without a manual, and
provide Primary Science Kits; provide  210,000 newspapers, and              the Science Panel is now developing
replacement radios for Radio Language    5 vehicles,                         one. Evaluation report on radio
Arts Program.                                                               programs mostly positive.
5. Curriculum development  Revise and streamline junior secondary    Syllabi for most junior secondary   Paramount significance attached to
at secondaiy level.     syllabi for all subjects.             subjects were revised and streamlined in  the revision of JC before COSC.
varying degrees.
6. Produce/disseminate      Produce supportive materials for teachers  Some supportive materials for teachers    Teachers' Guides under
instructional materials at  based on new syllabi.             on new syllabi have been produced and    development. Continuing review of
secondary level.                                              disseminated to trial schools.         existing materials.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                     17
INDICATORS                     ESTIMATED AT                              ACTUAL                            COMMENTS
APPRAISAL
7. Improve system of       Establish single, local institutional point   All examinations are now under the  Institutional development of ECOL
assessment at primary    for examinations and build its capacity to  management of ECOL. ECOL      under ESDP I focused on staff
and secondary.         take on this role.                    established and filled 7 posts for full time  recruitment and training. Full
staff. Study tours have been undertaken.  institutional development was
moved to ESDPII.
8. Recruit additional      Hire 1,300 teachers or 260/annum, 70%    The target of hiring the 1,300 teachers  After 2-3 years, the pool of qualified
teachers, especially at    to work at lower primary.         has been achieved, and 70% of the     teachers was exhausted. Grants were
lower primary level.                                         teachers have been allocated to Stds 1-3.  used to hire unqualified teachers
who were put in higher grades and
qualified teachers moved to
Standards 1-3.
9. Professional support for  (a) Conduct in-service workshops at  (a) In-service workshops regularly
teachers.               national, district and sub-district levels.   offered, on problems identified during
inspections.
(b) T rain district resource teachers and
selected curriculum disseminators.   (b) Initial target of 70 DRTs was     (b) DRTs paid by GOL. There is
achieved. There are currently 80 DRTs.   high demand for DRTs in rural,
(c) Train secondary school teachers in                                     multilevel schools. A new target of
core subjects.                       (c) No in-service program for secondary   100 is set for ESDP II.
school teachers established.
10. Efficiency             (a) Introduce policies to reduce repetition  (a) Policy to limit repetition  (a) Repetition rates have decreased
improvements.           by limiting repetition to two per primary  implemented.                    from 30% in Standard I and 25% in
cycle.                                                                     Standards 2 and 3 in 1990 to 24%
in Standard I and 21% in Standards
2 and 3 in 1995.
(b) Introduce policy to reduce under- and  (b) MOE now checking baptismal and
over-age entrants.                   clinical certificates and conducted public  (b) The proportion of children under
relations campaign in communities.   the age of six in Standard 1 has
decreased from 7.4% in 1990 to
1.7% in 1996. The proportion of
over-age children remained at 23%.
B. TEACHER TRAINING
1. Strengthen NTTC's       (a) Construct, furnish, and equip     (a) New administration block constructed,
institutional capacity to   additional office space and provide  furnished, equipped, and operational.
expand teacher output.    pedagogical equipment and materials.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 18
INDICATORS                    ESTIMATED AT                             ACTUAL C=N
0 X f X S X                  APPRAIA L               I                             
(b) Upgrade library.                (b) Received improved cataloging and
security system, new books and journals,
and a librarian was trained.
(c) Expansion of dining hall, new
(c) Expand hostel accommodations,   (c) Twelve new hostels for 504 students   multipurpose hall, and alteration
kitchen and dining facilities and build    constructed and furnished; 10 new  and renovation of existing hostels
classroom and faculty office space and a  classrooms and 2 faculty offices  not under taken due to lack of
large multi-purpose hall.           constructed and furnished. Kitchen/dining  financial support from donors.
hall renovated.
2. Upgrade standards in    (a) Provide fellowships for NTTC    (a) 9 staff received first degrees and 4
primary (pre-and in-   lecturers and provide long-term TA for   received Masters degrees. USAID
service) teacher training   in-service and materials development.   financed TA for in-service. Training on
programs.                                                   materials development done by UNISA.
(b) Evaluate effectiveness of existing  (b) Evaluation of LIET Program   (b) Evaluation indicated value of
program.                            completed.                            program, and identified problems
with field supervision, inadequate
resources, and weak management.
NTTC is currently addressing these
issues.
C. TECHNICAL & VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
1. Enhance quality and     (a) Develop & implement standardized    (a) Curriculum development in six
cost-effectiveness.    modular curriculum in 4 crafts level  subject areas completed and in use.
courses at 3 institutions.
(b) Regional fellowships not used
(b) Provide 10 regional fellowships for    (b) Three study tours taken to Botswana   because too few positions or
TVE staff; study tours to region.    and Zimbabwe (2).                    personnel in TVD to afford
absences.
(c) Introduce evening courses in a   (c) Evening courses introduced at LP
minimum of 2 TVE institutions.       only.
2. Strengthen skills       (a) Conduct feasibility study on financial  (a) Feasibility study completed.
certification/trade    aspects of operating skills
testing.               certification/trade-testing centre.   (b) Based on recommendations of     (b) Funds re-allocated to provide
feasibility study, building not     additional physical facilities at TTI
(b) Construct and furnish centre.    undertaken.                          & LTS.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 19
INDICATORS                    ESTIMATED AT                             ACTUAL                            COMMENTS
APPRAISAL
3. Policy development.    (a) Review of TVE Act.                (a) Review (Macauley) completed in   (a) Recommendations of the
1992 of the Technical and Vocational    Macauley review not implemented
Training Act (No. 25) 1984.         because of lack of institutional
(b) Study of options for increasing role of                               capacity to use the information.
employers.                           (b) HEDCO options study completed.    New review of the TVE Act and the
previous 1992 review is currently
(c) Small-scale tracer study.        (c) Tracer study completed by Sechaba   underway with ESDP II.
in 1996.
D. NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF LESOTHO
1. Quality enhancement and  (a) Implement subject system or     (a) Subject system not fully        (a) Study on subject system
cost-containment.       modified course unit system and related   implemented; currently using modified   completed in January, 1999.
academic planning.                  course system in some faculties.     Indicated wide-spread confusion,
and varied practices.
(b) Conduct study of university     (b) Cost containment study completed
overheads, implement cost-saving    by CHEMS. A few recommendations    (b) Cost containment to continue.
measures in non-academic planning.  were implemented and others are still    Alumni Association is cooperating
under consideration.                by exploring strategies of
(c) Fund overseas training and                                           fundraising.
fellowships for 5 staff per year.   (c) At least 5 staff members sent for
training overseas every year (records
available on 20 since 1996).
(d) Computerize library and stock books  (d) Library computerized. Books
and journals.                       supplied. Security system installed.
(e) Expand current science laboratory    (e) New science laboratory block  (e) Equipment for science
facilities and provide furniture and  constructed, furnished, and equipped.    laboratory block procured with
equipment.                                                               savings from procurement of
primary facilities. No financial
provision was originally made.
E. SECTORAL MANAGEMENT
1. Strengthen MOE         (a) Reorganize central MOE.           (a) Second tier below PS was
capacity and efficiency                                      established. Five CEO positions created
and implement policies                                       and filled.
for decentralization.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   20
INDICATORS                     ESTIMATED AT                             ACTUAL                            COMMENTS
APPRAISAL                                          X
(b) Strengthen field inspectorate, district   (b) Field services supervision system  (b) DRCs serve as office blocks for
MOE offices, and establish 10 District  established. Education Act (No. 10)  many MOE departments and
Resource Centers.                     enacted in 1995. Ten new DRC's       agencies and bring services closer to
constructed, fumished and equipped   their clients. To date, there are no
with staff equipment, materials, and (13)  educational resources available at
vehicles.                           the DRC. Under its new project,
ADB will finance a limited
(c) Strengthen higher education       (c) Higher education inspectorate not  purchase of books/other resources.
inspectorate, NCDC, IMRC, and support  established. IMRC closed and resources
services section.                    reallocated to NCDC.
2. Strengthen School-level  (a) Train 80% of headteachers.       (a) 950 headteachers trained. Emphasis
Management.                                                  on improvement of quality and
efficiency.
(b) Help communities organize school  (b) 800 approved ACSs were trained by   (b) Additional training for ACSs
boards and PTAs in at least 5 districts.  a task force of EOs and DRTs.    planned under ESDP II.
3. Monitoring and          (a) Establish EMIS.                   (a) Produced EMIS impact assessment   (a) New assistance required and
Evaluation                                                   report in 1998. Indicator reports were  planned under ESDP II. Work to
also available annually until 1997.  start in December, 1999. Contractor
finalized.
(b) Improve strategic annual planning  (b) School mapping exercise completed
within MOE and introduce task-based  and used for monitoring allocation of  (b) The 1998 Impact Assessment
budgeting.                            fumishings and equipment.           report, compiled by the PU,
indicates enhanced management
capacity to monitor reform.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   21
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
PROJECT IMEPACT ACHIEVED AND TO BE              ISSUES REMAINING                                  FOLLOW UP ACTIONS
MAINTAINED                                                                                        (UNDER ESDP II OR OTHER)
QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS-BASIC EDUCATION
Lowered pupil: teacher ratio, especially at lower  This improvement is at risk with the introduction of  Capacity for enrollment at NTTC to be
primary level (from 54:1 to 49:1)               Free Primary Education (FPE) and will need to be  expanded with rehabilitation of student
monitored carefully.                             hostels.
Increased access and reduced overcrowding by    There is still a shortfall of more than 2600 classrooms    About 480 classrooms are planned to be
constructing 800 primary school classrooms      needed to reduce overcrowding, a situation which will   constructed during the next 4 years (280 by
become more urgent with implementation of FPE.   ADB and 200 by IDA-ESDP II).
Temporary shelters may be constructed to
cope with influx of new students under
FPE.
Enhanced support to teachers                    In-service support is not adequate, particularly for  NTTC will develop a distance education
teachers in remote areas.                         system which will provide additional in-
Ten District Resource Centers were built and staffed,    service support and will be classroom-
but most contain little/no books or other resource  based.
materials.                                       ADB to supply libraries for DRCs.
Strengthened institutional capacity of NTTC     Alteration and renovation of existing students' hostels    Alteration and renovation of existing
and construction of multipurpose hall not completed as   hostels are being fmanced under ESDP II
planned due to lack of funding.                   Donors to be identified to finance the
multipurpose hall
Established new primary education curriculum    The design and content of subject syllabi were    Full implementation of the new curriculum
improved in all subjects but testing is not complete for   will be achieved in 2001. Revised
all standards.                                   curriculum for 14 junior secondary
subjects is now being tested in trial schools
and teachers' guides will be developed.
INCREASED EFFICIENCY- BASIC EDUCATION
Eliminated problem of under-age enrollment      Will need careful monitoring with implementation of    Continuous and strict monitoring that each
FPE.                                             child brings the required documentation to
school. These include: birth certificate,
clinic card, baptismal certificate, and
evidence provided by the Chief.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   22
PROJIECT IMPACT ACHIEVED AND TO BE               ISSUES REMAINING                                  FOLLOW UP ACTIONS
MAINTAINED                                                                                         (UNDER ESDP I1 OR OTHER)
Implemented an enhanced system of assessment     The PSLE and JCE were localized under newly       ECOL needs capacity building, planned
established ECOL.                                under ESDP II through a twinning
arrangement. Potential twins have been
short-listed.
TARGETED IMPROVEMENTS IN TVE
LP granted autonomy                              Need to improve sub-sectoral management.          Policy development and capacity building
planned under ESDP II and in coordination
with technical assistance from GTZ.
QUALITY & EFFICIENCY
IMPROVED AT NUL
Introduced some cost-containment initiatives     Limited number of recommendations in CHEMS report  Cost-containment committee at NUL plans to
have been implemented.                            continue meeting to monitor progress and
move forward with additional
implementation plans.
Enhanced NUL capacity for science research and   Lack of funding for maintenance of laboratories and for  NUL has included these items in their budget
Teaching                                         purchasing disposables used in experiments.       proposal for the upcoming fiscal year.
IMPROVED SECTORAL
MANAGEMENT AND FINANCING
Strengthened decentralized management of education    Need clearly defined plan for decentralization,  Senior staff undertook a study tour to New
including how it will integrate with the Local   Zealand and will forrnulate a plan for
Government Act.                                  decentralization to be presented to PS. The
MOE's lawyer will then work with the team
to ensure it fits in with Local Government
requirements. 10 planners are to be recruited,
one per district.
Improved capacity for management at school level  Not all ACS have been trained and Education Act has    Translation and additional training planned
inot been translated into Sesotho.                under ESDP 11.



Statistical Annexes                                                                    23
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 7: Studies Conducted Under Project
Study/Purpose of Study    Consultants        Status      Cost US$  Impact
Effecting school change    M. Mkandawire   Completed   13,131        Improved
& Company                                learning/teaching process
due to in-service teacher
training
School Mapping             Sechaba           Completed   190,736    New classroom
Consultants/                             construction to be based
Infovision                               on this study.
Review of TVE Act          G.G. Macaulay    Completed   13,499       Act is being reviewed
again under ESDP II
Options for further        HEDCO             Completed   70,030      Policy formulation now
development of Technical and                                         complete incorporated
Vocational Education in                                              apprenticeship and levy.
Lesotho
Tracer study of Post-       Sechaba          Completed   39,200      Certificate and diploma
Secondary Technical and    Consultants                              introduced at post-
Vocational Graduates in                                              secondary level addresses
Lesotho                                                              disparity between
institutions.
LP Autonomy Feasibility    F. Baffoe         Completed   7,000       LP granted autonomy.
NUL Cost Containment       Chemms            Completed   28,082      Partially implemented.
Continue to pursue.
PSLE Transfer              Square One        Completed   30,740      Transfer now effective,
Company                                  though costs increased.
Study of local level school    Ms. Pitso &   Completed   29,931      School-based
management                 Makhetha                                  management enshrined in
Education Act and
operational nationwide.
Conditions of Service for  Prof. Mohapeloa   Completed   7,095       Career structure in place
Teachers                                                             and teachers aware they
are GOL employees.
Financial Management Study   M. Moila        Completed   12,000      Strengthened
management of project
finances.
Economic Consultancy to PU   Dr. V. Lavine   Completed   17,058      1991/92 MOE sector plan
based on analysis of this
study.
Review of Education        S. Baholo         Completed   5,384       Education Act is result of
Legislation and Regulation                                           this study. Regulations
now being finalized and
law being translated into
Sesotho for training of
ASCs.



Statistical Annexes                                                                             24
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8A: Project Costs 1/2/
Expenditure Category                    SAR Estimates                       Actual
_us s $M:illion_                US $ Million
Local     Foreign      Total    Local   Foreign    Total
A. BASIC EDUCATION
1. Facilities                 7.5        14.2       21.7
2. Curriculum &
Instructional Materials   0.8        0.2          1.1
3. Assessment                 0.7        1.3         2.0
4. Professional Support       1.9        0.4         2.3
5. Efficiency                 0.1        0.2         0.3
6. Teacher Recruitment        8.7         -          8.7
Subtotal    19.7       16.3        36.0                        44.80
B. TEACHER TRAINING
1. NTTC Strengthening         2.3        3.9         6.2
2. Pre-/Inservice Training    2.2        0.9         3.1
Subtotal    4.5        4.8         9.3                         4.44
C. TECH & VOC
EDUCATION                     0.6        0.9         1.5
1. Quality & Cost             0.5        0.6         1.1
Effectiveness             0.1        0.1         0.2
2. Skills Cert/Industry
Training
3. Policy Development
(a)    Subtotal           1.2         1.6        2.8                         1.98
D. NATIONAL UNIV OF
LESOTHO
1. Quality & Cost             0.5        2.2         2.7                        5.65
Containment
E. SECTORAL
MANAGEMENT                    3.9        2.7         6.6
1. Reorganization of MOE      1.2        2.3         3.5
2. Decentralization of MOE    0.9        0.3         1.2
3. Local Level School         0.4        1.5         1.9
Mngt.
4. Monitoring & Evaluation
(b)    Subtotal           6.4        6.8         13.2                        14.32
F. REFINANCING PPF                0.4        0.5         0.9
G. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical Contingencies     1.4        2.7         4.1
2. Price Contingencies        2.8        2.7         5.5
Subtotal    4.2        5.4         9.7
(c)    TOTAL              36.9       37.7       74.60                        71.19
PROJECT COSTS
I/ Numbers may not add up exactly due to rounding
2/ Includes US $3.4 million in taxes and duties



Statistical Annexes                                                             25
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 8B: Project Financing
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES            ACTUAL
SOURCE                       IN US $             EXPENDITURES
IN US$$
GOL                                     20.30             19.86
IDA                                     25.20             24.89
USAID                                   24.90             14.50
EC                                      4.20              11.94
(d)   TOTAL                      74.60             71.19



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                      26
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA                   Description of Covenant                Covenant   Present    Original    Actual date                       Comments
Reference                                                        type 1/      status       date
Article III    The Borrower declares its commitment to the          05          C           N/A            N/A        Complied with throughout the project.
3.01 (a)     objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
the DCA and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
technical and education practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Article III   Without limitation upon the provisions of 3.01 (a) and  05         C          N/A             N/A       Complied with throughout the project.
3.01 (b)     except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set for the in Schedule 4 of DCA.
Ar3cle III    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,      03          C           N/A            N/A        Complied with throughout the project.
3.02        procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed by
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 of DCA.
Article III   'I'he Borrower shall increase recurrent resource      04          C       By fiscal year   From fiscal   Compliance fulfilled. The recurrent
3.03         allocations to education by 54.4% in real terms                              1991/1992.       year       budget has increased dramatically by
between 1990/91 and 1991/92 and by at least 4% per                                         1991/1992.   approximately 360% since 1991,
annum in real terms thereafter, until completion of the                                                 representing 28% of the national budget.
project.                                                                                                 The GOL's readiness and compliance to
this condition was helpful in the takeoff of
the project.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                      27
DCA                   Description of Covenant                Covenant  Present    Original    Actual date                        Comments
Reference                                                        type 1/      status       date
Article III   The Borrower shall, during implementation of the      03          C       Not provided.  January 1996.  Compliance fulfilled. Over the plan
3.04         Project, recruit at least 1,300 new primary teachers,                                                    period, over 1,400 primary school teachers
260 per year, and allocate at least 70% of such new                                                     were hired, with more than 70% of these
teachers to the lower primary grades (standards I                                                       allocated to Standards I to 3.
through 3).
Article IV   The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be             01          CP          N/A            N/A        The MOE did meet the reporting
4.01 (a)     maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in                                                   requirements. However, the financial
accordance with sound accounting practices the                                                          management system was not significantly
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of                                                    improved in order to ensure sound
the Project of the departments or agencies of the                                                       accounting practices. This is now being
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or                                                    addressing through recruitment and
any part thereof.                                                                                       systems development under ESDP II.
Article IV    The Borrower shall:                                   01          C           N/A            N/A        The audit reports were audited and the
4.01 (b)                                                                                                              report provided to the Bank on an annual
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in  4.01                                                  basis. The final audit, covering the last 15
(a), including those for the Special Account for each                                                   months of the project, is due to the Bank
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate                                                     by December 31, 1999.
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.                                                     In order to begin ESDP II with all
financial management issues cleared, the
(ii) furnish the Association, as soon as available, but                                                 Bank hired KPMG to reconcile and
not later than six months after end of each such year, a                                                regularize the project accounts. There
certified copy of the report of such audit by said                                                      remain a few pieces of missing
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the                                                       information required before this can be
Association shall have reasonably requested.                                                            completed. The MOE and the Bank's
Financial Management Specialist are
(iii) funish to the Association such other information                                                  following this up with the relevant parties
concerning said records, accounts and audit thereof as                                                  (Lesotho Bank and the Office of the
the Association shall from time to time reasonably                                                      Auditor General).
request.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                      28
DCA                   Description of Covenant                Covenant  Present    Original    Actual date                        Comments
Reference                                                        type 1/      status       date
Article IV             .t:                                                                      \:           
4.01 (c)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals  01         C           N/A            N/A        While USAID was providing funding to
4.01 (c)    from the Credit Account were made on the basis of                                                        the project, the project accounts were
SOEs, Borrower shall:                                                                                   audited by an external, private auditing
firm. However, during the course of the
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance                                                   last 2 years of the project the responsibility
with 4.01(a), records and accounts reflecting such                                                      reverted back to the Office of the Auditor
expenditures;                                                                                           General. The Auditor General issued a
Management Letter with regard to the
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association                                              fiscal year ending March 31, 1998 and the
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in                                                    MOE is now addressing those issues.
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
payment out of the Special Account was made, all
records evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in 4.01 (b) that
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                  29
DCA                  Description of Covenant               Covenant  Present    Original    Actual date                      Comments
Reference                                                      type lI    status         date
Para. 2      Borrower shall arrange for an independent evaluation  10        NC         Study by                   This evaluation was not conducted.
Para. 2  of the self-reliance activities in primary schools to be                  March 31,
conducted; send the findings to the Association for                         1993
review and evaluation and implement
recommendations.                                                         Implement
recommend-
ations by
Sept. 30, 1999
ScheduleP V   Ensure that an independent evaluation of the        10         NC      Evaluation by   Not provided.  Review of existing materials is now
Para. 3     diversified secondary education program shall be                          March 31,                   underway. This work has been delayed by
carried out; the findings of such evaluation reviewed                       1993                     the complications accompanying the
by Association; and agreed recommendations                                                           uncertainty of the future of JC and COSC.
implemented.                                                             Implement
recommnend-
ations by
September 30,
1994
Schedule IV   The Borrower shall introduce evening classes in a   10         CP        March 31,    Not provided.  Evening classes have been introduced at
Para. 4     minimum of 12 institutions with technical education                         1993                      only one technical education institution
facilities.                                                                                          (LP).
Schedule IV   The Borrower shall jointly with the Association     9          CP       March 1993;   December 16,  The Borrower and the Bank conducted a
Para. 5      undertake 2 project implementation reviews                                                 1995       Mid-term review at which time the project
September                  was restructured according to the review's
1994                     recommendations.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   30
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement                                                          Comments
Numnber and Title
OD 10.60            Paras. 26-27 of OD 10.60 state that, as a minimum, financial reports should normally comprise a statement of receipts and payments,
Accounting,         as well as total project costs and sources of financing, and that the supporting schedules of statements should disclose annual and
Financial           supplemental budget allotments, actual expenditures under each budget category for which Bank financing is furnished, and the actual
Reporting, and      expenditures and amounts of Bank disbursements claimed. In short, financial reporting should cover all accounts pertaining to project
Auditing            expenditures, irrespective of sources of financing.
Financial management was weak throughout the project, primarily due to understaffing. However, reporting requirements were
ultimately met. The final audit for the project, to cover the period from April 1998 through June 1999, is due to the Bank by
December 31, 1999.
The Bank usually expects the Borrower to demonstrate commitment to the project by making a 10% minimum contribution to project
OP 6.30             cost (net of taxes and duties).
Local Cost Financing
and Cost Sharing    The Borrower's contribution totaled 27% percent of total project cost which met the estimated contribution projected at appraisal.
OD 13.55            The borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own evaluation on the project's execution and initial operation, cost and
benefits, the Bank's and borrower's performance of their respective obligations under the loan agreement, and the extent to which the
ICR preparation     purposes of the loan were achieved, adopts a plan for the operational phase of the project and assists the Bank in ICR preparation.
The Ministry of Education prepared its own evaluation of the project's achievements (attached to the ICR as Appendix B) and
participated in the ICR preparation with the Bank team.



Statistical Annexes                                                            31
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of             Planned                      Actual
Project Cycle      Weeks    US$'V00       Weeks           US$'000
Preparationto         NA         NA         81.9             159.7
Appraisal
Appraisal             NA         NA         27.8             38.2
Negotiations through    NA        NA         1.5              3.0
Board Approval
Supervision           NA         NA         170.9            401.4
Completion             18        37.8        5.3             26.25
Total Project Costs     6.0        12.3      282.3            1476.3



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                   32
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stge of proect  |Month/            Number  Days   Specialized stff  Imp enttion  Developmet  Teof Problems
Cyele             year             of        in       skills           status           Impact 2/
persons   field    represented      2/
Identification    November 1989       7         17    EdS, Imp.
Preparation       Feb/March 1990       1        18                                     _ 
Preparation          June 1990        4         12    EdS
Preparation         August 1990       2         11 _1__
Preparation        Nov/Dec 1990       5         12    Ar, EdS
Appraisal through   March 1991        9        21    Ar, Fin                               .
Board Approval
Board through
Effectiveness
Supervision       Aug/Sept. 1992      2         13    Economist, EdS          1               1       Unresolved income tax liability of
long-term consultants; slow pace of
creating and filling posts by the Public
Service for reorganized MOE;
Strathclyde contract; whether 3
residential or 10 non-residential
district resource centers will be built
Supervision       Feb/March 1993       1        18    EdS                  No PSR         No PSR      Church/state dispute on control of
teachers; conflict between Ministries
of Education and Works on differing
roles in classroom construction; repeal
of New Education Order
Supervision          May 1993          1        7    EdS                      2              2        Dispute between church and state over
new legislation; delay in classroom
construction because of refusal by
Ministry of Works to give a waiver to
MOE; possibility of losing some EC
funds if these are not disbursed by end
of April 1994; unsatisfactory state of



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 33
Stage of project   Month/         Number  Days    Specialized staff  Implementation  Development  Types of Problems
Cycle            year             of        in       skills           status           Impact 21
persons   field    represented     2/
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .__ ./                                         __l_             _,_    _I_  _I
project accounts; slow start of some
sub-components which are a condition
for others to be initiated, for ex.
school mapping and cost containment
at MUL
Supervision        August 1993                 6                          No PSR         No PSR      No Aide Memoire available
Supervision        October 1993       2        9    EdS, Proc.               2              2        State/church dispute remains
unresolved; weak implementation
capacity - MOE's limited capacity is
impacting adversely on project
implementation. Slow start of some
sub-components largely as result of
the above.
Supervision         May 1994          1        9    EdS                      2              2        Unresolved church/state dispute over
the Education Order has delayed
decentralization of education to the
school level and limited MOE's
ability to utilize teaches more
efficiently. Program design and
implementation at NTTC and LP has
been severely constrained by lack of
autonomy. Government failure to
fulfill agreed measures and weak
planning and management capacity
are the two major problems facing the
project.
Supervision          July 1994        1        11    EdS, FinM            NO PSR         NO PSR      Weak planning and implementation
capacity continues to plague the
Ratings from   Ratings from   project; there continues to be too
update         update     much reliance on TAs. Delays in
S              S        filling critical posts compounds
MOE's already weak capacity.
Supervision        Nov/Dec 1994       2        11    EdS                     S              S        Task force working on the new law
has proceeded very slowly. General
concern among MOE officials that the



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                               34
Stage of project   Month/         Number  Days   Specialized staff  Implementation  Development  Types of Problems
Cycle            year             of        in      skills           status           Impact 2/
persons   field   represented      2/
PS's office does not act expeditiously
to approve applications cleared for
recruitment and promotion.
Supervision         May 1995         3        11    Arch, Ed PI, EdS     NO PSR         NO PSR    Delayed passage of Education Law.
Uncertainty about amount of AID
Ratings from   Ratings from   funding and the need for project
update         update    restructuring since AID has decided
S              S       to end its support with second tranche
if and when the new law is gazetted.
Other area for concern is MOE's
capacity to implement the project
efficiently and effectively. Serious
gaps in MOE staffing remain.
Continued vacancy of Financial
Controller.
Supervision       December 1995      4        11    EdS, Ed PI,          No PSR         No PSR      Weak implementation capacity of
Arch, Econ                                     Planning Unit, TVET, the Inspectorate
and Procurement Unit. Procurement
of goods and works has been
problematic due to segmentation of
procurement arrangements, conflicts
between the DCA provisions and the
laws of Lesotho, ignorance of WB
procurement guidelines (exacerbated
by high staff turnover at the GOL
Tender Board) and general lack of
procurement expertise in Government.
Serious concerns on quality and
accuracy of project accounts.
Supervision         July 1996         1       10    EdS                     S              S        Two major problems constraining
smooth implementation are
procurement and staffing. Due to lack
of procurement expertise, there is a
huge disbursement lag. (exception is
civil works). Planning Unit is
understaffed and has lost the TA



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 35
Stage of project   Month/         Number  Days   Specialized staff  Implementation  Development  Types of Problems
Cycle             year            of        in       skills           status           Impact 2/
persons   field    represented     2/
1/
Education Planning Advisor.
Supervision       December 1996       2        11    EdS, Architect          S              S        Lack of procurement capacity and
expertise in MOE. Procurement agent
is not yet in place and may take until
at least May 1997. Until then,
procurement backlog is likely to
increase leading to huge disbursement
lag. Despite many promises from
HOL, capacity weakness of MOE
continues, esp. its Planning Unit.
NTTC and LP capacity weakness not
likely to improve without law enacted.
Supervision        February 1997      2        7    EdS, Architect        NO PSR         NO PSR      Procurement of goods and works has
been problematic. Procurement agent
should be in place around May 1997.
The DCA condition of satisfactory
implementation of cost containment
measures at NUL for release of funds
for expansion of science laboratory
facilities and acquisition of furniture
and equipment delayed. MOE and
NUL will submit report documenting
progress on each condition by mid-
March.
Supervision          May 1997                  9    EdS                      S              S        Delays in procurement of NTTC
hostels/concern that EFU expedite
activities so that hostels can be
constructed during remaining life of
project.
No progress in procurement of
additional facilities for the skills
training centers. Due to inadequate
funding it was agreed to allocate
funding to only Thaba Tseka and
l______________  =_____________  ________________ _____  Bishop   Allard/Roma.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                 36
Stage of project   Month/         Number  Days   Specialized staff  Implementation  Development  Type Of Problems
Cyele             year            of        in       skills           status           Impact t/
persons   rield    represented     2/
Supervision       December 1997       3        12    EdS, Econ, Arch         S              S        Given the need for additional time to
complete planned activities, GOL will
request for second one-year extension
and reallocation of funds among
categories. Will need to monitor
NTTC hostels, NUL Laboratories,
Thaba Tseka DRC which are expected
to be completed around or after
_______                        December 1998.
Supervision          June 1998        9        17    EdS, Fin, Pop,          S              S        Careful monitoring and supervision
FinMgt,                                        required for numerous civil works and
goods contracts under tight
implementation schedule. Insufficient
funds allocated for procurement of
NUL computer/science equipment.
MOE will request reallocating funds
set aside for training of headteachers
and committees and from savings in
other civil works categories to cover
NUL procurement. Weaknesses in
project financial management.
Supervision        Nov/Dec 1998       2        3                                                     Office of Auditor General produced
report raising several concerns relating
to project procurement. As a result,
GOL and WB have arranged for
independent procurement review
scheduled for May 1999.
Supervision          June 1999        1        3    EdS                   NO PSR         NO PSR
Completion        November 1999       2        12    EdS



Appendices
APPENDIX A: COMPLETION AIDE MEMOIRE
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ESDP I)
AIDE MEMOIRE
Implementation Completion Mission
November 19, 1999
Background
1. A World Bank ICR mission comprising Trish Tierney (Task Manager, AFTHI) and Wes
Snyder (Consultant, University of Montana) visited Lesotho from November 14-24, 1999. The
mission worked jointly with the Ministry of Education in order to prepare the Bank's assessment
of ESDP I, which closed on June 30, 1999. The mission met with officials from the following
departments and institutions: Planning Unit (including Accounts Section and EFU); ECOL;
NCDC; NTTC; NUL; TVD; and TSD. In addition, the mission visited the following sites
relating to the project: 4 primary schools and 2 district resource centers (in Mafeteng and
Maseru), the NUL science block, NTTC student hostels and NTTC library. The mission wishes
to thank all those with whom it met for their kind cooperation and the valuable information
provided.
In accordance with GOL policy, Free Primary Education will be implemented from January 2000
onward, starting with Standard One. In connection with this, MOE will hold a National
Symposium on Free Primary Education (Nov. 22-24). Due to the time constraints this has placed
on MOE senior staff, the wrap-up meeting is being held prior to completion of the mission.
Subsequent to any meetings the mission holds the week of Nov. 22, it will revise the aide
memoire as needed and send to MOE for comments on the new information. After departing
from Lesotho, the mission will prepare the draft ICR. The draft ICR will be reviewed at an
internal Bank meeting on December 16, 1999 after which time the draft report will be sent to
MOE for comments. The final report is due to the World Bank Board of Directors no later than
January 31, 2000.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
3.   The mission had the benefit of the Ministry of Education's own Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), which will be attached in full as an appendix to the ICR. The mission
noted from MOE's report and from discussions held that the MOE is generally satisfied with the
outcome of the project, in terms of progress towards achieving the objectives of the project. The
ICR will address specific concerns and achievements in detail. The MOE has also provided
valuable information which contributed to the completion of Table 5 (please see the attached)



Appendices
which outlines the key indicators for project implementation (planned versus actual). This is to
be reviewed during the wrap-up meeting and comments incorporated.
Outstanding Information for ICR
4.   The Accounts Section is currently working on the completion of Table 8A (Project Costs)
and Table 8B (Project Financing). The mission emphasized the importance of these two tables
and in an attempt to expedite the process, the meeting agreed to use a simplified version of the
tables. The Accounts Section agreed to send these completed tables, via fax, to World Bank by
Monday, November 29, 1999.
5.   Table 7 (Studies Conducted Under the Project) is not yet filled out. The Planning Unit is
working on this and will provide the mission with a copy by Wednesday, November 24.
6.   The mission will complete the remaining tables and present them in mid-December, as part
of the draft ICR, to the MOE for review and comment.
Financial Management - ESDP I
7.  Under a short-term consultancy (financed by the Bank-administered PHRD grant), KPMG
recently undertook to reconcile and regularize the accounts of the five bank accounts maintained
by MOE under ESDP I. To date, the accounts have been reconciled. The completion of this
assignment, which includes regularizing the accounts, cannot be achieved until KPMG receives
the following information:
(a) An explanation for the significant difference between the closing balance of March 31, 1997
and the opening balance of April 1, 1997; and
(b) Information relating to the payments effected via Banque Credit Lyonnais for the period
between November 30, 1998 through June 30, 1999.
8.   The mission urged the Accounts Section to follow-up on these matters urgently. In the
case of item (a), the Accounts Section has already requested the Office of the Auditor General to
explain this discrepancy but has not yet received the information. With respect to item (b), the
Banque Credit Lyonnais has said it will only deal directly with Lesotho Bank. However, given
its own unfortunate circumstances, Lesotho Bank has been less than cooperative in providing. the
records requested by the Accounts Section. The Accounts Section kindly agreed to contact both
parties again in further attempts to make progress. Upon receipt of the outstanding information,
KPMG will regularize the accounts and present them to MOE and Bank for review. If necessary,
the Bank's Financial Management Specialist will meet with Accounts Section, KPMG and
Office of the Auditor-General when on mission in Lesotho in early December.



Appendices
9.  The mission reminded Accounts Section and Director of Planning that the final audit for
ESDP I is due to the Bank no later than December 31, 1999. As outlined in the correspondence
sent to MOE on October 4, 1999, this audit should cover the 15-month period of April 1, 1998 -
June 30, 1999. The Accounts Section agreed to discuss this with the Office of the Auditor
General in order to check on the status of this audit and to inform the Bank of the expected date
of submission. The Auditor General issued a Management Letter with regard to the audit for the
fiscal year ending March 31, 1998. The mission and the Accounts Section discussed and agreed
the importance of properly addressing the queries raised by the Management Letter and MOE
confirmed that it will take the necessary actions to satisfactorily address these queries.
Supervision of ESDP II
10. Financial Management: The mission met with Director of Planning and Peter Parks
(KPMG) in order to review the draft Procedures Manual and System of Accounting recently
prepared under a short-term consultancy (financed by the Bank-administered PHRD grant). The
meeting provided Mr. Parks with detailed comments, which he noted and will incorporate into
the final submission. The mission and Mr. Parks also met briefly with the Accounts Section, at
which time Mr. Parks agreed to return the following week to discuss any additional comments
the Accounts Section may have on the draft manual. Mr. Parks will also offer some hands-on
training to ensure the Accounts staff is able to use the spreadsheet-based accounting system.
I1. EMIS Consultancy: The MOE is currently negotiating with the Academy for Educational
Development (AED) with regard to the EMIS consultancy. As per the Bank 'Guidelines for
Selection of Consultants' upon completion of negotiations MOE will request the Bank's no
objection for awarding of the contract. As outlined in the logframe of the Project Appraisal
Document, one of the indicators for the project is to provide baseline information, gathered by
the EMIS, by December 1999. Given that we are now well past the original start date for the
consultancy - July 1999 - the mission hopes that MOE can finalize the process and allow work
to begin as soon as possible.
12. Detailed Project Costs: The final project costs have been broken down in detail, by
component, as based on past discussions and agreements as well as the information provided in
the Project Implementation Manual. These costs will be presented to the budget committee and
then distributed to all Heads of Programs.
13. National Symposium on Free Primary Education: The mission looks forward to attending
the first day of the symposium (November 22). Regrettably, the mission will not be available to
participate in the follow-on donors meeting scheduled for November 25 (previously planned for
November 19). In advance of that meeting, the mission will discuss with MOE the possible
contributions other donors might make in support of Free Primary Education and MOE will brief
the Bank on the outcomes.



SC-AN D IE  ECo0 py
APPENDIX B
BORROWERS EVALUATION REPORT                                    A     p
,            IFIIX ~~~(CoMhaftan 0r# 1OPCrGESW C0M0AdA:-
Ministry of Education and
Manpowez Development
Our Ref. ED/N/9                                                 29th July, 1999
Your Ref.
To:         Mr. Dzingai Mutumbuka                        Fax No. (202) 473 8239
Education Specialist
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington D.C.
From:       M. Makakole                                 Fax No. (09266) 311 274
Planning Unit - MOE
P.O. Box 47
Maseru - 100
Dear Mr Mutumbuka,
Subject:    Project Completion Report - Credit 2287 LSO
As agreed please find a copy of ESDP Completion Report. The original will be send by DHL
courier.
Best regards,
M. Makakole (Mrs)
For Principal Secretary for Education
and Manpower Development
P.O. BOX 47 MASERU, 100   TEL: 313628   FAX: 310206   TELEGRAM: EDUCATION



BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 1991192 - 1995/96
PREPARED BY:
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, PLANNING UNIT
19TH JULY, 1999



Background - The Education Sector Development Project (I) covering the period
from 1991/92 - 1995/96/99 was a multilateral donor funded project. The main
financiers included the International Development Association (IDA), United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the European Union
(EU). The African Development Bank (ADB) also participated in financing the
strengthening of secondary education as a component of the Development Plan.
There were two major objectives that underpinned and motivated education
reforms, namely:
i. supporting investments aimed at increasing the quality, efficiency and
relevance of educational programs at all levels of the education and training
system, with particular emphasis on primary education; and
ii. Helping to address the key management, financial and resource allocation
and staffing matters which constrained overall sectoral performance.
The project focussed mainly on five key areas: basic education; teacher training;
Technical and Vocational Education; National University of Lesotho; and sectoral
finance and management. Within each specific area there were several activities
to be completed. These activities, their achievements and constraints form the
basis of this report.  The report will also review  lessons learned during
implementation.
Finance
Objectives - As one of the pre-conditions for the take-off of the project, the
Government of Lesotho had to make a commitment to revise the pattern of its
financial allocation including expenditure. The recurrent budget was expected to
increase at the rate of four (4) per cent per annum in real terms, and seventy (70)
per cent of the budget would be allocated to primary.
Achievements - Recurrent Budget: The government has met all its financial
obligations. The recurrent budget has increased dramatically by approximately
360 per cent since 1991, representing 28 per cent of the national budget.
The government's readiness and compliance to the conditions was helpful in the
take off of the project. Even the accelerated rate of implementation can be
attributed to the commitment and suppoft the government has exhibited.
Lessons learned - It is imperative that the government and the Bank make
preparations well ahead of time. This facilitates for the smooth running of the
project and allows for full participation and understanding of the project content
by all stakeholders thus gaining their commitment.



Basic Education
Objective - Construction of additional classrooms, sanitary facilities, and
furnishing of new and existing classrooms at primary level; revision of curriculum;
production and dissemination of instructional materials; policies on enrollment of
under- and over-age students, and reducing repetition rates; and the recruitment
of additional teachers.
Achievements - During the plan period, 1094 new classrooms, 241 offices, 2220
latrines were constructed and 49 classrooms renovated. All associated furniture
was provided. In addition, more than 50 per cent of existing classrooms were
furnished. 10 District Resource Centres (DRCs) were constructed, furnished and
are operational.
Many of the planned activities relating to curriculum development have been
successfully implemented. The National Curriculum Committee (NCC) has been
legally constituted; implementation of revised syllabi has been completed and
trial tested in 50 schools up to standard 5, and training provided for teachers on
the revised curriculum; the National Curriculum Development Centre (NCDC)
management has been strengthened by the appointment of the deputy director.
The structure of subjects has been completed and attainment tests administered
in selected subjects up to standard 3.
The enrolment of under - age children has been eliminated.
Over the plan period. over 1400 primary school teachers have been hired and the
pupil teacher ratio of 1: 47 was achieved in 1996, well below the targeted ratio,
and more than 70 per cent of the teachers allocated to standards 1 to 3.
In addition to teachers, 78 District Resource Teachers (DRTs) have been
recruited. A hardship allowance was introduced with the purpose of attracting
teachers to remote areas. Conditions of service were also revised at par with
those in the public service, along with a new career structure.
The transfer of the Primary School Leaving Certificate (PSLE) has been
successfully done. The whole examination is now administered and supervised
by ECOL.
Constraints - The implementation of civil works was delayed due to the
reluctance of the ministry of works and finance to grant a waiver to MOE to
implement the civil works component. This is mainly due to the financial
regulations that have been in existence before independence and have not been
amended or changed to accommodate emerging developments.



There have also been delays:
i. in signing of contracts, by the relevant authorities, after contracts have been
awarded
ii. in approving requisitions, orders and processing of payments; and
iii. in processing payments of the counterpart contribution by the Ministry of
Finance.
Since the beginning of the project the procurement of goods was lagging behind
the civil works due to lack of competent personnel within the procurement of
goods section.
Lack of coordination between training institutions and the NCDC resulted in non-
participation of the training institutions in discussions relating to revised syllabi.
Another set back has been the implementation of a continuous assessment,
which was hampered by lack of regular reporting and teacher's reluctance to
administer the assessment, coupled with the Examination Council's reluctance to
accept the validity of teachers' hand scores.
With reference to enrollments of over-age students, inadequate alternative
structures to cater for the needs of the over-age student population have
contributed to the unsuccessful implementation of the policy. And also the
difficulty in redressing traditional occupational patterns (herding, agricultural
engagements etc.) that cause high repetition and drop-out rates still persist.
Thus, the repetition rate dropped by only 2 percentage points since 1991.
Lessons learned - There has been very limited support and cooperation from
the top level management despite numerous efforts of appeal, most often due to
lack of familiarity with the project contents and mode of implementation, causina
undue delays.
To avoid recurrence of this situation, and to adhere and meet the time bound
targets and conditionalities set-out in the implementation of the next project, it is
suggested that these tasks and responsibilities be assigned to a few members of
the Financial Management Committee, who will be conversant with project
contents and procedures to be followed for an unhindered smooth
implementation.



As far as procurement of goods is concerned, the capacity within the
procurement goods section had serious limitations, that were later rectified
through the hiring of a procurement agent, who not only helped procure the
goods, but also provided training for the new staff, thereby building the capacity
and effectiveness of the section.
Teacher Training
Objective - Strengthening National Teacher Training College's (NTTC)
institutional capacity and upgrading standards in primary pre- and in-service
teacher training programs.
Achievements - NTTC's capacity was strengthened through the conrstruction
and furnishing of 10 new classrooms, and 12 hostels providing accommodation
to additional 504 students. The number of students graduating has consequently
increased to approximately 300, still less than the targeted figure of 450 per
annum.
The structure of courses was revised and some of the programs upgraded. In
addition, training of staff members on the revised syllabi was accomplished.
Arrangements to grant autonomy to the institution have also been accomplished.
But the actual granting of autonomy has not been effected.
Constraints - As the focus was mainly on primary education the projected
targets intake of 1100 was not accomplished owing to the difficulties on funding,
except for a nominal amount of US$1.3 million from USAID and IDA which was
far below the total estimated cost of approximately US$7.5 million.
Lessons learned -The improvement on primary teacher qualification can be
achieved through distant teacher education.
Development of institutional and human resources, i.e., capacity to carry out and
manage the requirements of the project. Also there need to be constant, up-to-
date and reliable information on expenditure trends, to enable effective and
efficient project implementation.
Technical and Vocational Education
Objectives - Standardization of craft curricula, introduction of evening classes,
strengthening of skills certification/trade testing and policy studies.
Achievements - Standardization of craft curriculum was achieved and is now
operational in all the institutions. Evening classes have been introduced at LP.



Several studies were undertaken to determine the financial and management
capacity of the Technical and Vocational Division, except the study on policy
framework. The study for hotel catering and management course at the Lerotholi
Polytechnic (LP) was also undertaken.
A proposal to build a skill's certification/or trade testing centre was cancelled
following the recommendations of a study, which was conducted to look into the
viability of such a centre. The funds were consequently reallocated to improve
the existing TVE institutions, namely, Thaba-Tseka Technical Institute and
Leloaleng Trade School through provision of additional physical facilities and
equipment.  In addition more equipment was provided to all pre-vocational
schools.
LP's autonomy has been passed by parliament through Lerotholi Polytechnic Act,
1997. The implementation of the autonomy is awaiting the announcement of the
commencement date as per the requirements of the Act.
Constraints - Human, financial and infrastructural capacity of the institution
have always remained a prohibiting factor in the ability of LP to expand.
The human capacity dimension has been impeded by the absence of a reliable
channel of communication between the ministry of Foreign Affairs and training
institutions abroad, resulting in the forfeiture of training offers for the institution's
personnel.
Furthermore, LP has always failed to attract services of professional personnel
on a permanent basis, partly because of lack of attractive and commensurate
incentives.
Lessons learned - Scheduling of all activities, including preparations for their
implementation should be planned ahead of time to avoid delays often caused by
bureaucratic procedures.
National University of Lesotho
Objectives - Modified course unit system and related academic planning,
implementation of selected cost containment measures, staff development and
research, library computerization and stocking and the expansion of laboratories
for science teaching and research.
Achievements - A modified course unit system is now operational, but many of
the recommendations of the Cost Containment study have to date not been
implemented.
The intended training for staff development was successfully accomplished, ana
the library has been computerized and supplied with books and journals.



Additional science laboratories for teaching and research have been constructed.
furnished, equipped and are now operational.
In addition, a consultancy unit whose main purpose is to generate income for the
university has been established and is now operational.
Constraints - Lethargic attitudes of the management to implement the
recommendations of the cost containment study have made it impossible to
achieve proposed changes. This delayed the implementation of the physical
expansion of the science laboratories and associated works.
Lessons learned - The growing resistance within the NUL administration has
become a stumbling block in achieving meaningful advancements of the
institution.
The ministry of education should device means of asserting its authority on the
proper use of the subvention.
Sectoral Management
Objectives - Re-organisation and decentralization of the central MOE; in-service
training for teachers, management training for head-teachers, and systems for
improving program monitoring and evaluation.
Achievements - The four tier education management structure is now in place
and operational. Furthermore, Education management has been strengthened
with the establishment of the District Resource Centres in the ten districts as well
as the recruitment of additional education officers in line with the efforts of
decentralization.
The Education Act of 1995 was passed, making it possible to establish school
management and advisory committees and enhancing government control over
school management, and the in-service training for head teachers in financial and
administrative management has been partially accomplished.
Lesson learned
There is need for closer cooperation/consultation between school proprietors and
the Ministry of Education. Community participation has been intensified through
the Education Act, communities have been empowered and are more committed
to education policies and strategies. The training of school committees (Advisory
Committees) has brought parents, teachers and traditional leaders closer than
before.



The monitoring and evaluation of the plan implementation was achieved through
developing guidelines for the preparation and implementation of Annual Plans,
preparation of the Impact Assessment Report, the creation of the Education
Facilities Unit and the project accounts, creation of Education Indicators, and
training of the planning unit staff.
A school mapping exercise was conducted, a Geographic Information System
database introduced, and the Education Management Informaton System
improved.
Constraints - The passing of Education Act was inordinately delayed due to
resistance from school proprietors and high turnover in the statutory positions.
The regulations are still pending making it difficult to enforce provisions of the act.
There has been an overwhelming staff turn over within the planning unit resulting
in great staff shortages, and subsequently impacting on the ability of the unit to
perform its monitoring and evaluating functions.
Lessons learned
There is a need for closer cooperation/consultation between school proprietors
and MOE. Community participation has been intensified by the Education Act.
and communities have bee empowered and are more committed Lo education
policies and  strategies.   The training  of school committees (Advisory
Committees) has brought teachers, parents and traditional leaders closer than
before.
Bank's performance
Bank's personnel on supervision missions were recognized as professionals and
competent in every aspect and have often been helpful to accelerate the
implementation process.
However, there have been inconsistencies in the enforcement of the procurement
rules and approval of contract awards, by the Procurement Division of the World
Bank due to the high turnover of their Specialists.
Furthermore, changes/amendments made to the procurement guidelines after
the Development Credit was signed were enforced on our procurements,
contrary to the documents referenced in the Credit Agreement. which too
contributed to the confusion in the implementation of the project. However, these
issues have since been resolved.



Lessons learned
Bank guidelines should be more consistent and flexible to make room for
emerging issues that come as a result of project implementation.
Also, approval to allow borrower to use funds should be treated as quickly as
possible to enable the government of Lesotho to meet time schedules






MAP SECTION






IBRD 23059
L E S O T H 0
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LBH E  '
6 E  v-pR E
M ASE                                               J t )   _    a   /   *MOKHOTLONG
/ ~~~~NUL JROMA&W 
,       M ttX Ct E ? U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G TH MA-T>
MASERU   ~     ~      TIJA
7 14 A  ?   A   10  0  3  4  50  0  7 0
\ hA  FE? t . rKO N                                           I  I  I  I
H 0 E K                NEK~  1     2      3     4      5
2    DITRC  REORE  ETR
an   NTT                                                             ZAR        ANAI
AC
0  1G0  210  30 G  50  60  70
KILOMETERS I            I  I  I MOBIQUE
MIE0'   10   2'0   30      0     5
-     DISTRICT RESOURCE CENTERS
NTTC                                 -                                     ZIR <ANZANIA 
N IN        NATIONAL UNIVE RS    IES                                 -        SWAYLAND
GROUP 1                                          ANGOLA        ZABA                ;
GROUPS 2
GROUP 3                                           NAMIBIAWE   ,
-DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.    ,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES                                  L            PM ZLN
Thso~hos~oorre%TheVt~URonk% sIofle.dAsoeW,  tse.;_                    AFRNCA    -
boda   eflbrTohon oo o?-dom ooion toelponof TFeVr od   toe   int ol Fi o
Cowtp?bn. ooy ijeseentoO  yloMe     .oysofottor ooyoodooe ortooFt=ootef ertadobe
MAY 1991



