(SE22-y -7  A go
q   ,,            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
il I ( >I8.( )]i 1 t'f-l±E C 4'(  |
Report No. 9529-LSO
l  il .rt N ,- / .  t   ,!I    . 1. 'i  1( T v    f) (:  AR.)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 19, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 1991)
Currency Unit = Maloti (M)
US$! - M2.7
Ml = US$0.37
FISCAL YEARS
IDA Fiscal Year = July 1 - June SO
Government Fiscal Year = April 1 - March 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     African Development Bank
CEO      Chief Education Officer
COSC     Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
DRT      District Resource Teacher
DTVT     Department of Technical and Vocational Training
EC       European Community
ECOL     Examinations Council of Lesotho
ESAF     Extended Structural Adjus'_.int Facility
FRG      Federal Republic of Germany
IDA      International Development Association
IMRC     Instructional Materials Resource Centre
JC       Junior Certificate
LDTC     Lesotho Distance Teaching Centre
LIET     Lesotho In-service Education for Teachers
LP       Lerotholi Polytechnic
MOE      Ministry of Education
NCC      National Curriculum Committee
NCDC     National Curriculum Development Centre
NTTC     National Teacher Training College
NUL      National University of Lesotho
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
ODA      Overseas Development Administration
PCR      Project Completion Report
PFP      Policy Framework Paper
PSLE     Primary School Leaving Examination
RSA      Republic of South Africa
SEO      Senior Education Officer
SSU      School Supplies Unit
TSC      Teaching Service Commission
TSTC     Thaba Tseka Skills Training Center
TVE      Technical and Vocational Training
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
WFP      World Food Programme



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
KNG,DOK OP LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Title                                                                               Page No.
Basic Data ...... * * * . ..........................................................   i
Credit and Project Summary ........................... .........  ii
Estimated Costs and Financing P            l    a    n ....................................  iv
I. INTRODUCTION                            ..
A.     Economic Context ...... . ...                                                 2
B.     Education in the National Deve.opment Strategy.                               3
II.    TEE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ..............................                      4
A.     Basic Characteristics of the Sector ......................                    5
B.     Priority Issues  ...................              ...... .. ................   6
C.     Donor Involvement in the Education Sector    .               ...............   19
D.     Bank Role and Ass sstance Strategy ...........            gy ............   20
III.   GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND FIVE-YEAR ACTION PLAN ..................   22
A.     Sectoral Objectives and Expenditure Plan                . ................   22
B.     The Five-Year Sectoral Action Plan .......................    25
IV.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT ....... ..............                ......................    38
A.     Project Objectives and Summary Description ....                 ...........   38
B.     Detailed Features ........................................   39
V.     PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION ......... ...........   49
A.     Project Costs .................................                              49
B.     Project Financi ng ..................... ..................   52
C.     Hanagement and Implementation ............................    53
D.     Procurement  .....................    55
E.    Disbursements ....  .......            ............................   58
VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................................    60
VII. AGREENTS TO BE REACHED AND                           I .CO).ENDATION  .....   ....  61
This report Is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Lesotho In March
1991. Mission moemers ws'e Ms. Neeta Sirur (mission leader, task manager), Ms. Elizabeth Adu
(counsel), Ms. Joan Cloffty (education planner), Mr. Leonardo Concepcion (senior
Implementation specialist), Mr. Vincent reaney (educator) Ms MUwkerem Mulatu (financial
analyst) and Mr. John Theakstono (higher education specialist): Lead Advisors for the
project are Mr. Peter Moock and Mr. Birgir Frdriksen. Mr. 0. de Ferranti and Mr. S. Denning
:re the managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectivoly for the operation.
Th. report was written by Us. Neta Sirur, based on Inputs from mission mmbers. Ms. Rhodora
Mendoxa provided c*eretarial assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not othe:wise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



A332S
Annex 1s  Education Statistics ............................    63-77
Tatle 1          Lesotho Education Enrollments by Level          .........    63
Tables 2-7       Primary Education ..............................    64-69
Tables 8-12      Secondary Education           ............................  70-74
Tables 13-15    Post-Secondary EducatLon .......................    75-77
Annex 2:  Letter of Development Policy and Matrix ................    78-88
Annex 3:  Projected Educational Expenditures .....................    89-90
Annex 4:  Reorganization of Ministry of Education           ................    91-99
Annex 5:  Proiect Cost ...........................................  100-107
Annex 6s  Project Technical Assistance ...........................  108-113
Annex 7s  Proiect Implementation Schedule ........................  114-115
Annex 8s  Disbursement Schedule .................................              116
Annex 9s  Project Supervision Plan ...............................  117-118
Annex 10:  Documents Available in the Proiect File .....          .......... 119-122
Annex ll  Monitoring and Evaluation .............................  123-129
CHARTS
1.  Structure of the Education System ........... ..................           130
2.  Ministry ef Education Organizational Structure ................            131
3.  Proposed Reorganization of the Central MOE ....................            132
MAP
Lesotho - IBRD No. 23059



KINGDON OF LESOITO
EDUCATION SICTOR DEVELOPIPNT PROJECT
B..sic Data
(All figures are for 1990 unless indicated otherwise)
Area ........................ . . . . .. ..  .. .      30 * 000   sq  km
GNP per capita            . ......... .. $420 (1988)
Population ...................... 1.7 million
Annual population growth rate ............ 2.6 percent
Gross primary school enrolment ........... 116 percent
Primary completion rate .................. 51.7 percent
Primary repetition rate .................. 22 percent
Primary pupiltteacher ratio .....* .... . 55:1
Primary Pupilsclassroom ratio ............ 67:1
Textbooks per primary student ............ 4.4 books
Ratio girls:boys in primary school ....... 1.2sl
Gross secondary school enrolment .. .... 24 percent
Secondary pupil:teacher ratio ............ 21sl
Ratio girls:boys in secondary school .....1 .5sl



- ii -
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Pro1ect Summary
Borrower;          Kingdom of Lesotho
Beneficiary:       Ministry of Education (MOE)
Amount:            SDR 18.9 million (US$25.2 millioi equivalent)
Terms:             Standard with 40 years maturity.
Project Obiectives
The main objective of the project is to assist Government in the
implementation of its five-year action plan for sectoral reform in education,
as laid out in a letter of development policy and detailed matrix of specific
objectives and actions (Annex 2). Project support would focus on: (a)
supporting investments aimed at increasing the quality, efficiency and
relevance of educational programs at all levels of the education system, with
a special focus on primary education, and (b) helping to address the key
management, financing and resource allocation, and staffing issues which
constrain overall sectoral performance.
Project Description:
Within the framework of Government's policy/ac. won matrix and investment
plan, the project will support improvements in: (a) primary, by
constructing/furnishing additional classrooms first in the underserved
highlands and subsequently in Haseru and other lowlands areas, increasing
instructional materials, rationalizing the curriculum, improv_..g pupil
assessment (both continuous assessment and the school leaving examination),
recruiting additional teachers to prevent deterioration of already high
pupil:teacher ratios, and supporting policies to directly increase internal
efficiency by limiting enrollments of over- and under-age pupils and reducing
repetition; (b) secondary, by supporting efforts to rationalize allocation of
public resources to uneconomic schools and regulate opening of new ones,
improving student assessment, and improving teaching by support to teachers in
the form of teachers' guides and in-service refresher training; (c) teacher
training, by expanding the output and quality of both the pre- and in-service
teacher training programs and providing management support to the teacher
college; (d) technical and vocational education (TVE) by raising the quality
and cost-effectiveness of formal pre-service TVE through support for
standardization of curricula at craft level and introduction of evening
classes at selected institutions and encour&ging involvement of employers in
TVE through expansion of trade-testing capacity and policy studies; and (e)
university, by assisting in implementation of cost-containment measures in
non-teaching areas, introduction of a more coherent academic program,
improvement of science and library facilities and support for faculty
research. Project support for improvements in sectoral management will focus



- iii -
on supporting the reorganization and decentralization of the Ministry of
hducation (HOE), improving local level school management through school
administrator training and establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
system. Project conditionality is the main vehicle for addressing issues of
teachers' conditions of service and issues of sectoral financing, which are
critical to ensuring the productivity and sustainability of project
investments.
Benefits and Risks:
The project's main benefit is that it would assist in improving the
quality of the educational system, thereby helping to increase student
achievement and maintainjimprove Basotho competitiveness in the regional labor
market. Through support for revision in education policy and resource
allocation patterns, the project would also help establish a sound base for
future investments. Finally, the project's focus on development of a coherent
sectoral plan would help achieve much-needed improvements in donor
coordination within the sector.
The project's principal risk is that with the coming of elections in
1992, political candidates may promise further sectoral expansion, despite the
need for, and current Governmental coamitment to, consolidation during the
Fifth Plan period. To reduce this risk, the project would finance a well-
targeted pt'blic awareness campaign to lncrease popular appreciation of
efficiency Issues. A second risk is that Government, given its fiscal
austerity program, may not increase -'ucation budgetary allocations enough to
allow timely implementation of the reform package. This risk is reduced by
the strong support for continued real growth in education spending articulated
in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) as well as Government's stated commitment
to education.



- iv -
Prot ct Coat Summr,  kx Prol Srt Cocn nt
Local      Forelmn    Total
A. BSIC EDUCATION
1. Foclltti.                                 7.5        14.2        21.7
2. Curric i Instruc Materlsul                0.6         0.2         1.1
S. Assesment                                 0.7         1.8         1.9
4. Professional Support                      1.9         0.4         2.8
6  Efficien¢y                                0.1         0.2         0.8
6. Teacher Recrultment                       6.7         0.0         6.7
Sub-total                                  1I7         Wa 81:i
B. TEACHER TRAINING
1. NTTC Str.ngthUning/Output                 2.8         8.9        6.2
2. Pr_-/In-orvice Troining                  2.2         0.9         8.1
Sub-total                                    7      
C. TECH & VOC EDUCATION
1. Quallty A Cost Effectiv.n.u               0.0         0.9         1.4
2. Skills Cert/Indust Trog                   0.5         0.6         1.1
8. Policy Dovelopment                        0.1         0.1         0.8
Sub-total                                    M.         E 
0. NATIONAL UNIV. OF LESOTHO
1. Quality A Cost Containment                0.6         2.2         2.7
E. SECTORAL MANAGEMEfT
1. Reorganization of MOE                     8.9         2.7        6.6
2. Decentralization of MOE                   1.2         2.8         8.6
8. Local Level School Mout                   0.9         0.8         1.2
4. Monitoring A Evaluation                   0.4         1.5         1.9
Sub-total                                               11         11
F.  PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                     0.4         0.5         0.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                        82.7        82.2        64.9
Physical Contine nces l.4                             -§           t.1
Price Contingencies                        2.6         2.7         5.6
Total PROJFCT COSTS                         86.9        87.7        74.6
Financina Plan
Government f                                         16.9        1.4        20.8
IDA                                                  6.0        17.2        25.?
USAID                                                 9.0       16.9        24.9
EC                                                    1.0        8.2         4.2
TOTAL                                                86.9       87.7        74.6
Diebursement Schadule
IDA FISCAL YEAR
1992    1998     1994    1995      1996    1997
Amount Disbursed                        2.5      8.6      4.6      4.6      6.6      4.8
Cumulative Amount                       2.5     6.8      10.6    16.4    20.9    26.2
Percentage of Total                      10       25       48       61      68       100
Number my not add up exactly due to rounding.
fi  Include US18.4 million In taxes and duties.



KINGD  OF LESOT3O
EDUCATION SECWOR DEIMLOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         The Government of th.e Kingdom of Lesotho and donor agencies
are increasingly recognizing that, as the countr7's natural resource
endowment is severely limited, Lesotho must emphasize human resource
developzaent as the key to sustainable, long-term economic growth. As
such, the Government in recent years has opted to give very high
priority to the formulation and implementation of policies and programs
to educate and train Basotho in a cost-effective manner for future
employment at home and within the Southern Africa region. For example,
the Government's Fourth Five Year Plan (covering the period 1985/86-
1990/91) stressed the need to strengthen Lesothr's education and
training system as the central element in a strategy for human resources
development. This emphasis will continue and deepen in the 1ifth Plan
period (1991/92-1995/96), during which Government intends to undertake a
comprehensive sectoral reform effort aimed, inter alia, at: (a)
strengthening education management at central, district and institution
levels; (b) increasing resources to the sector and rationalizing
resource allocation among the various sub-sectors with a view to
increasing emphasis on primary education; and (c) improving the quality
and efficiency of education at all levels of the system, again, with an
emphasis on primary education.
1.2         The proposed Education Sector Development Project would
assist the Government in implementing its sectoral reform program,
providing necessary financing for a number of the activities at primLary,
secondary and post-secondary levels included in its fifth five-year
development plan. It would also lend support to the policy adjustment
process, to which the Government is firmly committed and which involves
some potentially difficult measures. Development of the project was
closely linked to Government's own process for defining the education
elements of its fifth five-year plan, and involved intensive
consultation and dialogue with Government and representatives of
relevant non-governmental organizations (NGOs), in-depth analyses of
specific technical problems, and broader reviews of management and
financial needs. Moreover, discussion of education sectoral needs and
project emphases was systematically included in the macroeconomic
dialogue between Government, the IMF and the Bank to ensure that the
planned education reform program and the Bank's support for it would be
consistent with broad macroeconomic (especially fiscal and public
expenditure) objectives. Further details regarding education sectoral
Aims and project design are given in Chapters II, III and IV of this
report. The remainder of this Introduction focuses on briefly
describing Lesotho's overall economic environment and the country's
development strategy as it relates to the education sector.



-2-
A. Rconomic Context
1.3         Lesotho, a small mountainous country surrounded by the
Republic of South Africa (RSA), possesses a very limited natural
resource base relative to its population of 1.7 million. Its modest
deposits of diamonds and coal are *ot economically exploitable at
present and only about 12 percent of its land is cultivable due both ta
the mountainous terrain and to the serious erosion of top-soils over the
past century. Agriculture thus accounts for only about 21 percent of
GDP although it remains the main occupation of about two-thirds of
L.esotho's labor force working within the country's borders. Another
quarter of Basotho workers employed domestically are in the service
sector, wihich accounts for over half of the country's GDP. The
country's industrial base, though expanding in recent years, is still
quite modest, providing employment to the remainJng 10 percer,t of
Basotho workers. This proportion may be expected to 'icrease moderately
in the medium term with the implementation of the Highlands Water Scheme
which involves trans-basin transfer of water from Lesotho's highland- to
the RSA. Besides bringing considerable revenues to the Government, the
Scheme is expected to creata jobs for about 5,500 skilled and semi-
skilled workers at its peak, with additional jobs created in supporting
industries. The degree to which Basotho workers will benefit from the
jobs so-created will, in large measure, depend on their preparedness for
the work involved -- in turn a function of their basic education and
skill levels.
1.4         In addition to those employed within Lesotho, a significant
proportion of working-age Basotho (38 percent of the male labor force)
is employed outside the country -- principally in South Africa's mines.
This substantial emigration is partly a response to the severe
population pressure vis a vis empl3yment opportunities prevailing in
Lesotho, and partly attributable to the higher remuneration available in
the RSA. The migrant workers are of vital economic importance to
Lesotho, making a major contribution to the country's employment,
household incomes and GNP (remittances nearly equal the total value of
domestic economic activities, constituting about 46 percent of Lesotho's
total GNP). However, these Basotho occupy mainly middle and low-skilled
positions in the mines, and their prospects for obtaining better jobs in
the future are highly restricted due both to inadequate skill levels and
mining company policies. Moreover, increased competition from South
African workers even for the lower-skilled jobs and the risk of
tightening of legal restrictions on Basotho labor migration to the RSA
as a result of the ongoing political changes in that country suggest
that future employment prospects for Basotho in RSA's mining sector may
be relatively limited.
1.5         Indeed, it appears that employment opportunities for Basotho
in the RSA mining sector are already rhrink!ng, as evidenced by the
stagnation in the real value of mir worker remittances during the latter
half of the 1980s.  This has had    stantial implications for Lesotho's
real GNP growth and consequently, for the rate of improvement in the
standards of living of the Basotho people. For example, despite robtst
growth in domestic output between 1986 and 1990 (real GDP grew at an
annual average rate of 8.3 percent), GNP, reflecting very low growth in



-3-
remittances, grew at the much alower rate of 5.5 percent per annum
versus a population growth rate of 2.6 percent arnually. In this
context, it seems clear that the achievement of continued rapid growth
in Lesotho's GNP and living standards will, inter alia, requires (a)
evhancement of labor productivity and job opportunities domestically;
and (t) improved c4impetitiveness of Basotho workers in the regional
labor market. In turn, this implies the need for a better educated,
skilled and entrepreneurial work force, the creation of which will
require a well-functioning, broad-based, education and training system.
B. Education in the National Developneat Stratea
1.6         Despite the importance of human resource development to a
country with extremely scarce natural resources, it WaS not until the
mid-1970s that Government began to pay serious attention to the
education sector, gradually increasing its political and financial
comnitment to education, and explicitly recognizing the sector's
fundamental impertance to achievement of both economic and social goals.
Prior to that time, education was left largely in the hands of the
churches, which establi6ked and operated virtually all primary and
secondary schools (as well as most post-secondary institutions) with
comparatively little supervision or direction from Government agencies.
In the early 19808, Government undertook its first comprehensive survey
of the education sector with a view to identifying clear objectives for
sectoral development in relation to broader national development goals.
As a result of the survey, Government established three overarching
objectives with regard to the education system as follows: (a) to
democratize access to education to the point where all Basotho childLen
are assured of at least primary schooling or its equivalent; (b) to
ensure that educational programs reflect Lesotho's development
requirements, in particular with regard to the development of problem-
solving skills, scientific and technical aptitudes and socio-cultural
values in conjunction with basic literacy and numeracy; and (c) to equip
sufficient numbers of individuals with appropriate occupational,
technical and managerial skills to facilitate the country's socio-
economic development.
1.7         During the decade of the 19809 -- i.e., the Third and Fourth
Plan periods -- substantial progress was made towards achievement of
these goals. Primary school enrollments increased by about 40 percent
from under 250,000 to nearly 350,000, and the number of secondary
schools increased from about 100 in 1980 to about 182 in 1990. In
addition, the numher of uncertified teachers was reduced and several
Important programs to improve math, science and language skills were
initiated or strengthened substantially. In the area of technical-
vocational education, enrollments grew from about 1,200 in 1980 to about
1,700 in 1990, and several major institutions for specialized training
(e.g., the National Health Training Center, the Center for Accounting
Studies, etc.) were established. Lesotho's current gross primary and
gross secondary enrollment ratios are approximately 116 percent and 24
percent respectively -- among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Moreover, females actually outnumber males at all levels of the



-4-
education system, a ainique uircumstance in the Africa region where, all
too often, girls are not given equal educational opportunities.
1.8         Despito these .eiportant achievements (ani in par  perhaps                  pL
becauae of the rapid expansion in enrollments), Lesotho enters the l990s
faced with a serious problem of low and deteriorating quality of
educaition. This la reflected in poo= test results and high levels of
pupil drop-out and repetition throughovt the system, with negative
liplications for the efficiency of reso .rce use. In this context,
Government intends during the Fifth Plan period to focus explicitly on
addressing these quality and efficiency issues, while rescraining
further expansion of the education system, except where absolutely
necessary. The specif..c objectives/strategies included in the Plan are
described in detail in subsequent chapters of this report. In general,
they are consiLtent with the Bank's analysis of sectoral needs in
Lesotho and with recent Bank policy studies on education in Sub-Saharan
Africa and primary education in developing countriesv.
II.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
2.1         This chapter begins with a short overview of the basic
characteristics of the education and training sector in Lesotho,
followed by a more co&iprehensive discussion of the principal issues
confronting the country as it moves towards meeting its long-term
sectoral development goals. The information, observations and
conclusions presented here are based on (a) review of the extensive
assessments and other literature that exist now on education in Lesotho,
(b) new data collection, evaluation and analyses undertaken for five-
year plan develo-*ent and this project, and (c) thorough consultations
between Government %nd IDA staff. The literature reviewed includes
sector analyses carried out by the Ministry of Education (MOE), the Bank
and other lonor agencies as well as staff appraisal reports and project
completiov reports of the preceding four IDA investments in tL.e sector.
Working from this knowledge oase, the project preparation effort arrived
at the list of issues presented in this chapter after first considering
a larger list of potential problem areas, covering every aspect of
education from primary to post-secondary as well as the country's
vocational and technical training systems. The issues discussed in
Section B below, after the background description of Section A, are
recognized by the Government as the principal areas where it needs to
concentrate its efforts in the next five years.
1/  See the following World Bank reports: (a) Kingdom of Lesotho:
Improving Quality and Efficiency in Education, Report N. 8066-LSO,
(1989); (b) Education in Sub-Saharan Africa: Policies for Adjustment,
Revitalization and Expansion (1988); and (c) ImProving Primary Education
in Developing Countries (1990).



- 5 -
A. Basic Characteristics of the Sector
2.2         Unlike the situation in many Sub-Saharan African countries
where education is the direct responsibility of the state, Lesotho's
education system remains largely a joint venture between the Government
and the churches (mainly Anglican, Evangelical and Roman Catholic), with
the latter owning and operating 97 percent of primary and 86 percent of
secondary schools. In addition, most technical and vocational training
institutions, with the exception of the MOE-run Lerotholi Polytechnic
(LP) and the Thaba Tseka Skills Training Center (TSTC), are church
owned. The National University of Lesotho (NUL) is administered by an
independent council but, in view of its heavy reliance on Government for
both investment and recurrent expenditures includes MOE representation
on its council. Specialized training institutions and programs are
operated by the Ministries of Agriculture, Trade and Industry, Rural
Development, Health, the Prime Minister's office, and in the industrial
sector by the Lesotho National Development Corporation.
2.3         The structure of Lesotho's education system is given in
Chart 1. Currently, the system consists of seven years of primary
education, five years of secondary education (three years of jnmior
secondiry and two years of senior secondary) and four to six years of
higher education. Primary educatiou is conducted in Sesotho (the
national language) for the first three years and mainly in English in
Standards 4 through 7. Post-primary education is entirely in English.
Non-formal education courses are provided by the MOE through the Lesotho
Distance Teaching Centre (LDTC) and by the NUL Institute of Extra-Mural
Studies (IEMS). Primary and junior secondary teacher education is
provided by the National Teacher Training College (NTTC), while senice
secondary teacher education is the responsibility of the Faculty of
Education at NUL. Besides education, NUL offers courses in humanities,
natural sciences, agriculture, social sciences and lav. As noted
earlier (para. 1.7), enrollments have risen rapidly over the past
decade, with over 350,000 children enrolled in primary and over 45,000
enrolled in secondary schools as of March 1990. Moreover, female
enrollment levels are especially impressive with over 94 percent of
girls aged 7-14 years enrolled in school. As discussed previously, more
girls than boys are enrolled at all levels of the education system so
thar femaletmale ratios are currently about 1.2:1 in primary, 1.5:1 in
secondary and 1.5:1 on average in post-secondary institutions. Further
details concerning enrollment levels and gender composition of the
enrollees are given in Annex 1.
2.4         The administrative, financial and academic control of the
formal education and training system is vested in the MOE, which, inter
alla, has responsibility for the training and payment of teachers,
formal approval of teachers' appointments, dismissals etc.,
adoinistration of exams, review and authorization of curricula, school
inspection, and regulation of the opening and closing of schools. An
organigram showing the present structure Gc. the HOE is given in Chart 2.
While there are differences in the organizati'on of the three main
churches with respect to education management, these are bssentially
variations of the same structure. Common to all is a single line
organization of three levels of hierarchy comprising an executive body



- 6 -
at the top, a single education secretary at the middle and parish-
appointed school managers at the floor.
2.5         Traditionally, financing of education in Lesotho has been
shared by the Government, the local private sector (mainly through
students' fees and community labor for construction projects) and direct
contributions from abroad, whether in cash or kind, made by the
churches. Although it is not possible to quantify the latter (church)
contributions, there is no doubt that they have declined steadily in
recent years and have become only a marginal source of financing. Over
the same period, there have been substantial increases in funding of
capital expenditures by bilateral and multilateral donor agencies, which
are channelled through the Government budget. In 1987, total
expenditures for education in Lesotho (including the value of school
feeding programs and parents' contributions) amounted to about H 113
million or about 3.7 percent of the country's GNP. This translates to
about H 68 or slightly over US$ 27 per capita at current exchange rates.
The Government's contribution (including foreign aid) -- covering MOE
administration, teachers' salaries at all levels, most NUL costs
(including student loans) and a high share of sectoral investment --
made up nearly 70 percent of expenditures, with private sources, mainly
parents, providing the balance of 30 percent. Domestically-generated
resources covered 71 percent of education expenditures and foreign funds
the remaining 29 percent.
D. Priority Issues
2.6         As indicated in Chapter I, the major educational challenge
confronting Lesotho as it enters the 19908 is to halt the widespread
decline in quality and internal efficiency which besets the education
and training system at all levels. The principal problems being faced
at each level of the system are discussed below in some detail (paras.
2.7-2.15). This is followed by an analysis of the fundamental systemic
factors related to Lesotho's current modes of managing, financing and
staffing the education system which constitute major impediments to
resolving identified problems.
Principal Problems by Educational Level
2.7         Primary Education.  Poor quality of primary education in
Lesotho has multiple causes. The 'mfavorable learning environment is
strongly related to severe overcrowding, especially in the lower primary
standards, which is in turn caused by severe shortnges of teachers and
classrooms and high repetition rates. While on average a primary school
teacher handled 46 pupils in 1980, that ratio has now risen to 55,
significantly higher than the 40:l ratio believed by the MOE to provide
a manageable learning environment. The actual pupiltteacher ratio is
even higher than 55:1 in the ;owest standards (1-3), where rates of
wastage (drop-out and repetition) are highest, and where the least
qualified teachers tend to be assigned. The situation is even worse



-7-
with regard to pupil:classroom ratios v, with the average number of
students sharing a classroom exceeding 67. If the 860 church halls
serving as makeshift classrooms are excluded, the pupiltclassroom ratio
increases to over 100l1. The problem is once again particularly acute
in lower primary. where several hundred pupils commonly receive
instruction from 2 or more teachers in a single room, leading to
problems of concentration and discipline. Overcrowding is also
connected with high rates of repetition, with about 22 percent of pupils
held back each year. Repetition is highest in lower primary,
exacerbating the already-serious overcrowding in standards 1-3.
Repetition, overcrowding and poor quality of education create a
particularly vicious cycles classrooms swell with repeaters; learning
suffers because there are too many pupils (may of them over-age --
e.g., about 30 percent of Standard 1 enrollees are aged 9 or over --
with concomitant discipline problems) for the teacher to handle; the
teacher's morale and self-confidence are undermined and school
performance of pupils is affected; and because of poor performance, a
large proportion of pupils are required to repeat the grade. Drop-out
rates are also high, reaching 14 percent in Standard 1 and 11.5 percent
in Standard 6 (see Annex 1, Table 7 for further data on drop-out rates).
2.8         In addition to overcrowding, the primary education system
suffers from problems of teacher quality associated with the absence of
regular in-service training opportunities for teachers, poor supervision
by frequently inexperienced headteachers, inadequate inspection support
from MOE and a still-high proportion (about 20 percent) of uncertified
teachers. Shortages of furniture and learning materials are another
major constraint. According to a recent MOE survey, 43 percent of
primary school pupils have no furniture, while many others have chairs
or benches but no desks on which to write -- with negative consequences
for student learning. With regard to learning materials, the MOB
through a national book loan scheme has made impressive progress in
providing basic textbooks (an average of 4.4 books per primary pupil)
but shortages of supplementary materials such as teachers' guides and
pupils' workbooks are apparent. Moreover, some schools lack enough
textbooks because of snags in the distribution system. Finally, there
is a need to introduce a system of continuous student assessment to
provide diagnostic information on pupil achievements to direct remedial
work, contribute to promotion decisions and measure the quality of
instruction across classes and schools. These factors, together with
overcrowding and high repetition/drop-out, have seriously undermined the
cost-effectiveness/internal efficiency of primary education in Lesotho
2/ In many developing countries shortage of classroom space has not
been viewed as a major problem from the standpoint of student
achievement as classes can be held outdoors throughout the year. In
Lesotho this option is not available for many months of the year when
the climate is too cold to allow for extended sessions outdoors.
31 In 1990, repetition rates were as follows: Std. 1 - 31 percent; Std.
2 - 25 percent; Std. 3 - 23 percent; Std. 4 - 19 percent; Std. 5 - 15
percent; Std. 6 - 12 percent; and Std. 7 - 13 percent.



- 8 -
so that, at present, it requires an average of 14 years of investment
per student completing the 7-year primary cycle.
2.9         Secondary Education.  As with primary education, there is
widespread concern among educators, parents and MOE officials in Lesotho
that the quality of secondary education has been declining. Indeed,
Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) results indicate that only
about a quarter of students pass the examination. At least in part the
problem is the direct result of the poor preparation in primary school:
when students admitted to secondary institutions are inadequately
prepared, it is difficult for instruction in secondary school to
overcome this handicap. A "cascading' effect occurs, with a negative
impact on secondary and post-secondary education. Several other factors
also affect the quality of secondary schooling. A major constraint is
the persistently high proportion of uncertified teachers, coupled with
the fact that many qualified teachers are foreign nationals, with a
relatively high turnover rate. In addition, mwny schools are affected
by a lack of special facilities such as libraries and laboratories which
could help enrich the quality of secondary education. Finally, the
absence of an effective inspectorate to provide guidance to schools has
had negative consequences for educational quality. Although a
Department of Secondary Education has recently been created within MOE,
it is still largely unstaffed (and secondary schools are not yet
inspected effectively from the district level).
2.10        While recognizing that quality improvements (some of which
will require additional resources) are necessary in the secondary
subsector, the Government is becoming increasingly concerned about the
extremely inefficient use of available resources within the subsector at
present. Unit costs have been rising substantially in recent years,
mainly because secondary-level student:teacher ratios have fallen to
21 1 (1990), though education specialists agree that the ratio could be
raised to 30:1 without any loss in the quality of instruction. This
inefficient development has taken place because a large number of small
secondary schools were built during the 1980s (mainly by church mission
groups), many of which have such small enrollments that sub-optimal
studentsteacher ratios inevitably arise. Nearly 90 percent of Lesotho's
junior secondary schools (forms A-C) have fewer than 200 students, the
minimum size set by MOE; and about 60 percent of high schools (forms A-
E) have fewer than 400 students, the minimum norm established by MOE.
While a few of these schools are in sparsely-populated mountain areas
and are thus necessarily of smaller size, most are in lowland towns
where several schools a2e located too close to each other, thereby
splitting among them the limited student population in their
(overlapping) catchment areas. The use of resources in many secondary
schools could also be improved by increasing the management skills of
headmasters/headmistresses, who all too frequently lack experience with
timetabling (to make better use of teacher inputs and physical
facilities), basic financial management and maintenance needs.
2.11        University Education.  Despite the presence of a generally
well-trained faculty and adequate physical facilities (except in a few
areas, such as laboratories for science), academic quality at NUL
suffers from a number of drawbacks. One key drawback is the structure



- 9 -
of the academic system, termed the "unit course' system, which though
designed with good intentions to combine the best elements of the
British and American systems, has become increasingly complex and
fragmented, making it very difficult for students to follow a well-
structured, coherent progression of studies. Moreover, opportunities
for tutorial work and exposure to practical situations are extremely
limited, in part because the complex timetabling requirements of the
unit course system absorb excessive faculty time in record-keeping and
paperwork. Another factor which affects the quality of education is the
large proportion of faculty time devoted to committee work rather than
teaching or research, given the existence of an inordinately large
number of committees (22) and the fact that faculty are rewarded for
participation in committees while research, until recently, was not
explicitly recognized. Lack of funds for library books and Journals and
research activities is also a major problem affecting academic quality,
as is the failure to reap benefits in teaching quality from encouraging
regular interaction between NUL's four research institutes and relevant
faculty departments.
2.12        Apart from issues concerning academic quality, there is also
widespread concern about the adequacy of NUL's government and management
system, under which the authority of Council and the senior management
cadre is seriously limited, inter alia, by excessive devolution of
decision-making authority to faculty committees of the Senate.
Moreover, the Senate itself and many of its committees are unnecessarily
large, making it difficult to reach consensus on, and implement,
decisions on both academic and non-academic activities. No
comprehensive management information system exists which could help
inform policy and administrative decision-making on a regular basis.
Moreover, there is a need to integrate academic planning, staff
development and more general university deve'opment activity to ensure
coherence in the aims and implementation of these functions. Physical
pl"-nning, too, needs to be upgraded, both to optimize utilization of
existing facilities and to direct the design of new ones in a manner
consistent with economically establishing a cohesive physical
environment of appropriate quality.
2.13        With regard to university revenue and expenditure, the most
pressing need is to continue to review and implement options for
containing costs in non-teaching areas, which account for over half of
NUL's annual expenditures. Specific areas where further action is
indicated include energy conservation, in-house services such as the
laundry and garage, reducing numbers of grounds and maintenanze staff,
and subsidies provided to NUL employees, including housing subsidies and
commuting and education allowances. Encouragement to NUL's research
institutes to generate a greater proportion of their operating costs
from sources external to the NUL budget could also have a substantial
impact on university finances. With regard to generating additional
revenue, government has given consideration to the option of raising
student fees to cover a higher proportion of NUL operating costs.
However, given the small size of the student body (about 1200 full-time
students) and the fact that the majority of students receive government
loans (about M 6,000 per student per annwm) to cover tuition and board
and lodging costs, it was concluded that the net effect of increased



- 10 -
fees on government sectoral allocations was likely to be relatively
small, besides being politically very difficult to implement. In this
coutext, Government, appropriately, is focusing its attention on
enforcing repayment of student loans for which the recovery rate is
presently under 10 percent. The principdl option being considered is to
transfer the administration of the student loan funds to commercial
banks, which are better equipped to enforce repayment. A
2.14        Technical and Vocational Education (TVE).  It is only since
1984, with the passing of the Technical and Vocational Training Act,
that the Government, tk. ough the HOE, has begun to attenupt to direct TVE
programs in Lesotho. Inter alia, it has created a Department of
Technical and Vocational Training (DTVT) within HOE and established a
national advisory board with representation from industry and donor
agencies to foster better linkages between training and industry
requirements. Although enrollments in TVE have expanded rapidly (in
both Government and church-owned institutions) during the 1980s (para.
1.7), the quality of training provided is extremely variable, largely
due to the lack of uniform curricula, facilities and end-of-course
tests. In the medium-term, therefore, there is a need to give high
priority to standardizing TVE courses in at least the main subject areas
and to institute standardized examinations allowing for the award of a
nationally recognized diploma or certificate. In general, also, there
is a need to enhance the quality of training by raising the practical
content of courses offered in post-secondary TVE institutions through
more (and better supervised) industrial attachments, improved workshop
facilities and increased budgets for materials. Efforts are also needed
to lower unit costs at Government-run TVE institutions through offering
more evening courses and instituting management improvements aimed at
optimizing resource use.
2.15        Even with serious efforts to lower the (relatively high)
unit costs at formal TVE institutions, it is unlikely that Government
could support significant expansion of TVE enrollments in the next five
years or so given budgetary constraints and priority needs in other
subsectors. At the same time, there is clearly a need for more skilled
manpower in Lesotho, given industrial growth and the likely impact of
the Highlands Water Scheme. In this context, more attention should be
paid to the scope for partnership with employers in developing the pool
of technically skilled workers which Lesotho clearly needs. One option
is to substantially strengthen trade-testing, which is a relatively low-
cost approach in that much of the training is provided by employers on
the job, with Government resources used mainly to administer tests,
certify successful candidates, and, when necessary, offer limited
4/ Some analyses have plausibly argued that increasing cost-recovery at
NUL may have the benefit of reducing inefficiencies in the students'
choice of subject specializations, even if the revenues generated
through fee increases are relatively small. In the medium term however,
given NUL's present situation, it seems clear that higher priority needs
to be given to increasing university discipline and teaching quality
while containing non-teaching costs, rather than to modifying student
subject specializations.



- 11 -
supplemental part-time courses to those failing tests because of
deficiencies in theoretical knowledge. Another possible option is to
introduce a training levy on industry, the revenue from which could help
defray the cost of formal training. However, unless it can be ensured
that formal training is very tightly geared to industrial heeds, there
is likely to be opposition from employers to this 'atter option.
Structural Issues
2.16        While it may appear that many (if not most) problems
identified in paras. 2.7-2.15 above could be resolved simply through
additional investment in Lesotho's education sector, detailed analysis
suggests that, in fact, such investments are likely ) have much less
than the desired impact -- and are unlikely to be sudtained over time --
unless fundamental issues related to sectoral management, financial
resource allocation and staffing are also addressed simultaneously. For
example, basic changes are required to the organization and structure of
the MOE at the central and district levels if it is to manage sectoral
resources more effectively and actively promote quality and efficiency
improvements throughout the system. Similarly, much more clarity in the
relationship between the MOE and the school proprietors (the churches)
is necessary to ensure that public resources allocated at the primary
and secondary levels are used in accordance with national priorities.
With regard to financing, there is a need for Government Rs a whole (not
just the HOE) to recognize the legitimate incremental funding needs of
the sector and to adjust financial resource allocation among the
subsectors in a manner consistent with achieving both greater equity and
higher social returns from sectoral expenditures. Finally, there is a
need to explicitly acknowledge the central role of teachers in any
effort to improve educational quality by addressing long-standing issues
of poor conditions of service, which, over the years, have seriously
undermined teacher morale and professionalism. There can be little
doubt that without a well-i.otivated teaching force, the impact of
investments in physical facilities, learning materials and even
managerial and systemic improvements is likely to be substantially
reduced. The remainder of this section (paras. 2.17-2.20) examines each
of these issues in greater depth, in relation to their impact on
Lesotho's education system.
2.17        Sectoral Management.  The principal issues in education
sector management can be divided into two interlinked categories as
follows: (a) weaknesses in the structure and organization of the MOE
(including management style and procedures); and (b) issues related to
collaboration between HOE, the school proprietors (i.e., the churches)
and parents/local communities in the managez.nt of schools.
(a)   Structure and Organization of the MOE.  The structure and
organization of the MOE is characterized by a number of weaknesses,
which together inhibit its ability to routinely undertake strategic
planning, effectively regulate and monitor educational institutions and
programs at all levels, or hold individuals and units accountable for
delivering specified work program responsibilities. These problems stem
from a number of factors, which were the subject of a comprehensive
study undertaken as part of Fifth Plan development. The main issues



- 12 _
identified by that study can be summarized briefly as follows: (i) a
c.entral MOE structure which is confused and over-complex, characterized
by lack of integration between the mainstream management structure and a
web of aid projects and ruits which represent the residue of past donor-
assisted projects; (ii) ,ak organization of the ministry at regional
and district levels and a consequent inability to undertake effective
monitoring and educational audit of a broad-based educational system;
(iii) inadequate distance between the operational menagement of
publicly-supported institutions such as LP and NTTC and the planning,
regulating and monitoring functions of the MOE; (iv) understaffing and
poor equipping of key units concerned with planning/monitoring and
financial management; (v) blurred patterns of accountability and
delegation under which certain units arbitrarily redefine their own
report.ng lines; (vi) lack of definition of individual responsibilities
and tasks at all levels of the ministry; and (vii) an incoherent salary
structure which does not always reflect responsibilities and in which
insufficient incentive is given to efficiency and initiative. There is
broad agreement within the Government that the above factors constitute
major obstacles to improving the effectiveness and efficiency of
Lesotho's educational system which must be ameliorated if the
educational reforms proposed for the Fifth Plan period are to be
successfully implemented.
(b)   Collaboration between MOE, Proprietors and Parents.
Recognizing that Lesotho's high male and female school participation
rates could not have been achieved without the proactive role of the
proprietors in promoting education for their parishioners and the high
value placed by Basotho families on education, Government in Lesotho,
unlike in many other African countries, maintains strong commitment to a
partnership between proprietors (i.e., churches), parents and the MOE in
operating primary and secondary schools. Such a cooperative approach
has much to offer and is not very dissimilar from models of indirect
provision being developed in tne United Kingdom and elsewhere. At
present, however, the partnership is much less than effective mainly
because of the failure of the Government to exercise many important
powers in respect of policy-making for, and regulation of, the education
service as a whole.
Indeed, in Lesotho's present system, clear criteria seldom exist
for either the allocation of public funds to proprietors or use by the
proprietors of the funds once granted. Moreover, even where criteria
have been established, non-compliance by proprietors is rarely addressed
through effective penalties (such as withholding of public resources).
At the same time, little progress has been made in formalizing the
involvement of parents and local communities through the establishment
of school committees or parent/teacher associations which could bring to
bear a measure of local accountability to the running of schools. In
this context, propr.etors are able to use Government and parents' funds
to pursue objectives for the education system that may bear little
relationship to established sectoral developmental objectives. On the
other hand, there appears to be inadequate consultation with proprietors
in setting sectoral strategy which at least partially explains their
failure to fully understand or act in accord with it. Several examples
exist of the detrimental impact on educational quality and effectiveness



- 13 
of the persistent lack of meaningful coordination between Government,
school proprietors and parents. Four of the most serious are described
below.
(i) One key problem which is especially wasteful of limited
sectoral resources concerns duplication of services, with more
than one church group "competing, for educational customers within
the same geographical area, while other areas remain relatively
underserved. This is especially evident at the secondary level,
where, as indicated in para. 2.10, unit costs have been rising due
to the proliferation of small secondary schools run by different
church mission societies. Feasible options for addressing this
issue include stricter regulation of the opening and closing of
secondary schools, assistance to small secondary schools in
determining academic programs (and related teacher complements)
appropriate to their size, and, regulating the allocation of
government-funded teaching posts in accordance with a pre-
established student:teacher ratio. However, the MOE, given its
own organizational difficulties, has been unable to enforce any of
these politically difficult options, with the result that
resources continue to be inefficiently allocated.
(ii) A second issue is that MOE's technically appropriate policy
of improving primary school quality before promoting further
expansion of secondary schools has been difficult to implemient
without prior consultation with, and cooperation from,
proprietors. Frequent cases are reported of diversion of public
resources intended for primary schools to secondary (including
physical facilities and teaching posts), perhaps due to the
greater prestige involved with owning and operating a secondary
school. In the meantime, primary schools continue to suffer from
serious problems of overcrowding related in turn to staffing and
classroom shortages (para. 2.7)   Moreover, consistent pressure on
Government from proprietors to provide resources to secondary
institutions has meant reduced availability of limited funds for
quality and access improvements at the primary level.
(iii) Inadequate coordination (and sometimes, mutual suspicion)
between the MOE, parents and proprietors and among proprietors
themselves has also contributed to inefficient local level
management of the education system. For example, many church
missions have been unwilling to delegate day-to-day school
management to headteachers, who, because their salaries are paid
by Government, are viewed as MOE, rather than church, employees.
Instead, most proprietors have appointed school managers for their
parishes, who are frequently less than effective, given that most
work part-time, have little management experience themselves, are
extremely low-paid (if not volunteers) and, in addition, are
provided few resources such as transport, ledgers etc. with which
to carry out their functions. Moreover, their deployment (by
parish) is necessarily inefficient as the lack of cooperation
across the different denominations means that school managers have
overlapping circuits and must travel over much longer distances
than if a more rational deployment pattern were employed. The



- 14 -
result is that school level management is unacceptably weak, with
obvious implications for educational quality.
(iv) A further very serious cause of concern arises from the
manner in which teaching posts are allocated. The current system
allows the MOE to apportion grants for teachers' salariec to
school proprietors but not to individual establishments. The
MOE's allocations are based mainly on the application of
relatively simple staffing standards derived in the primary
subsector from pupil numbers and in the secondary sector from
pupil numbers modified by the need to ensure that schools can
offer all aspects of the official curriculum. (This second
consideration has contributed to the cost-ineffectiveness of small
secondary schools.) To the extent that no effective mechanism has
been established to ensure that proprietors use similar criteria
in dividing their respective allocations, the system has tended to
break down at this second level, with proprietors allocating posts
to areas where they can most easily be filled rather than to areas
of greatest need. The result has been extremely inefficient (and
inequitable) distribution of the most substantial part of public
funds made available for educational purposes.
2.18        As the preceding examples demonstrate, the lack of clear
definition of the roles of the three partners in Lesotho's primary and
secondary education system is having a serious impact on educational
quality and efficiency and must be addressed if future expenditures in
the sector are to be effective in achieving sectoral objectives.
Government rightly believes that a successful partnership in the future
will involve a more explicitly contractual relationship between the MOE
and proprietors, a stronger MOE presence at regional, district and
school levels, and greater empowerment of parents and local communities
to influence school management.
2.19        Sectoral Financing and rxpenditures.  As indicated in para.
2.16 above, issues in sectoral financing and expenditure are related to:
(a) the need to increase public expenditure on education; and (b) the
need to rationalize allocations within the sector to maximize social
returns. Improvements in these two areas are fundamental to the
achievement of Fifth Plan goals of increasing the quality and efficiency
(i.e., cost-effectiveness) of education, especially at the primary
level, where increased outlays for more, better-trained teachers with
access to improved physical facilities, instructional materials and
other resources would, over time, lower the unit cost of graduating
primary pupils. Rationalization of expenditure by subsector -- in
particular, constraining growth in expenditure at the post-primary
levels which thus far have received a disproportionate share of
resources -- would also provide greater incentive for cost-containment
in institutions at these levels. Past trends in sectoral financing and
allocations and needed adjustments are discussed in (a) and (b) below.
(a)   Public Financing of Education.  As noted in para. 2.5, the
bulk of educational costs in Lesotho are borne by parents and Government
(including foreign development assistance channelled through the public
budget). By comparison with other African countries at similar income



- 15 -
levels, the proportion of costs borne by parents is relatively high in
Lesotho - accounting for about 30 percent of total sectoral
expenditures and a substantially higher proportion at the primary and
secondary levels and at TVE institutions where cost recovery effort.
have been concentrated. In this context, the scope for additional cost
recovery, at least for basic and technical education, is limited by
broad equity considerations. While increased cost recovery could be an
option at NUL and, to a lesser extent, at NTTC, the small size of the
student bodies at each of these institutions suggests that the revenues
thus generated are unlikely to substantially affect the overall sectoral
finarzsing picture, besides being politically very difficult to implement
(see para. 2.13). To the extent, therefore, that the education sector
in Lesotho is under-funded -- and, as previously discussed, funding
constraints are having a serious impact at the lower tiers of the system
(paras. 2.7-2.9) -- it will be necessary to look to public funds and
donor assistance to meat identified gaps.
Trends in Government allocations/expenditures for education were
disappointing during the 1980s when real per capita recurrent spending
on education declined substantially at a time of expanding enrollments,
contributing to the deterioration in educational quality.  While nominal
recurrent allocations for education increased from M 26 million to M 30
million between 1982 and 1987, in reai per capita terms this implied a
serious drop from M 31 to M 22.9 over the five-year period. Even large
nominal rises in recurrent allocations during the subsequent three years
have not restored per capita spending to their 1982 level, given high
population growth rates (2.6 percent per annum) and continued increases
in net and gross enrollment ratios. As a share of the national total,
recurrent expenditures on education stood at 16.4 percent in 1990/91,
modestly reversing a declining trend in the preceding seven-year period.
Nonetheless, this level of recurrent spending is lower than in many
other African countries, where it generally amounts to about 20-22
percent of the total budget. In view of the current shortages of
teachers, their low levels of compensation [see para. 2.20 (a)],
continuing shortages of teaching materials and other essential inputs,
pursuit of quality improvement goals in the Fifth Plan period will
require continued increases in the share of the budget allocated to
education. As Lesotho's overall government spending relative to GNr
(24.3 percent in 1990/91) is lower than in many other countries, Lesotho
may need to direct relatively more expenditure toward educatior. to equal
effort in other countries.
In contrast to trends in recurrent spending, capital expenditures
for education in Lesotho (mainly derived from foreign sources) have been
rising in recent years, a welcome development as some su:sectors within
education (for example, primary education and teacher tr.ining) have
long suffered from underinvestment. During the Fourth Plan period
(1985/86-1990/91), planned capital expenditures amounted to an average
of about H 25.4 million (US$9.3 million equivalent) pe_ year, with
implementation rates of about 80-90 percent of planned levels. The gsp
between planned and actual implementation rates was largely attributable
to inadequate funding for proposed activities, suggesting the need to
better plan sectoral development programs and make realistic assessments
of likely donor assistance. In order to improve this situation, a
L1w
U,.;



- 16 -
number of options should be considered by the Government (with
collaboration from the donor community) including undertaking sectoral
studies and policy analyses jointly with donors, setting clear
objectives and strategy, encouraging donor co-financing of specific
programs and projects within the framework of a defined-strategy, and
sponsoring donor conferences to review sectoral development needs. As
evidenced by the following discussion of Government's Fifth Plan
education submission and the project proposed later in this report,
Government has already begun to take steps to promote better
coordination with and among donors, including the Bank.
(b)   Rationalizing Resource Allocation Among Subsectors.
Government recurrent outlays per student at different levels of
education display extremely high variation in Lesotho. For example,
public expenditures at NVL in 1987 (H 7922) were more than 23 times the
amount spent by Government for secondary students (M 338) and nearly 150
times the public funds allocated for each primary student (M 53). Even
taking into account parents' contributions (which are conc-?ntrated at
the primary and secondary levels), per student outlays at NUL are 13
times greater than for secondary students and 71 times larger than for
primary school pupils.  In order to ach'eve Government's key educational
objectives for the coming Plan period and address the quality and
efficiency issues outlined in paras. 2.7-2.15 above, it will be
necessary to gradually reduce these existing large differentials in per
student expenditure, principally by increasing outlays at primary level
and lowering unit costs at NUL.
The distribution of capital expenditures during the Fourth Plan
period has been of equal concern, particularly when viewed in the
context of Government's stated objective of emphasizing basic education
in its education development strategy. During the five-year period,
primary education wae allocated only 16 percent of total investment
resources despite the demonstrable needs of the subsector. On the other
hand, planned capital expenditures for NUL amounted to over 21 percent
of Fourth Plan education investments, with secondary education, teacher
training and TVE receiving 14.1, 19.4 and 8.4 respectively.
Strengthening of the i-apectorate (mainly secondary) received 9.2
percent, with the remainder (12.1 percent) going to administration.
Moreover, several problems were apparent with the content of the
specific investments proposed. For example, capiLal investments at NUL
were generally associated with major incremental institutional
overheads, despite existing problems of excessive administration and
overhead charges and potential for expanding enrollments without
significant additional investments. Similarly, investments at NTTC did
not result in any expansion in trainee capacity, despite the grave
shortage of qualified teachers. As with recurrent expenditures,
therefore, it is apparent that significant adjustments to the
distribution and composition of investments will be required during the
Fifth Plan period, to ensure that sectoral goals can be achieved.
2.20        Teacher Motivation.  The third major systemic issue
affecting the quality of education in Lesotho (particularly at primary
and secondary levels) is the low morale of teachers. As indicated in
para. 2.16, the presence of motivated and competent teachers is crucial



17 -
tD the efficient functioning of any education system and a major factor
ia ensuring the effectiveness of incremental sectoral investments.
However, long-standing neglect in Lesotho of teachers' legitimate
demands for improved conditions of service and professional support has,
over the years, undermined the motivation of the country's teaching
force and exacerbated the shortage of qualified teachers as many have
left to work outside Lesotho's borders. Moreover, the low compensation
levels have probably also discouraged the most qualified secondary
school leavers from opting fur teaching careers.  Issues affecting
teachers in Lesotho can be grouped into two broad categoriess (a) poor
conditions of service; and (b) inadequate managerial and professional
support.
(a)   Conditions of Service.  Since 1978, when Government took
over the payment of teachers from the church missions, there has been
little systematic attention paid to issues of appropriate remuneration,
benefits or career structure for the teaching service. Today, teachers'
salaries are, on average, 40 percent below levels prevailing in the
civil service, taking into account equivalence of pre-service academic
qualifications. In some instances, differentials in pay levels between
teachers and civil servants are as high as 65 percent. Benefits, too,
have been significantly different in the teaching service vis a vis the
civil service. Until 1990, when Government first passed a statute
enrolling teachers in a non-contributory pension scheme similar to one
for civil servants, teachers were not entitled to any retirement
benefits whatsoever, irrespective or the length of their service in the
education system1. Moreover, in the initial phases of implementation
of the pension scheme, married women, who constitute the bulk of the
teaching force, were deemed ineligible for pension benefits. This
restriction has since been removed in the wake of growing discontent
among teachers, culminating in a widespread teachers' strike in mid-
1990.
In addition to long-standing neglect of inequities in teacher
salaries and retirement benefits, Government taes paid little attention
to establishing appropriate incentives/compensation for work in the
remote, highland areas of the country (e.g., cash payments or housing)
despite widespread acknowledgement that service in these areas involves
particular hardship in terms of higher cost of living, isolation from
peers, weaker professional and managerial support, etc. Minimal
hardship payments that were established in 1985 have remained unchanged
at M 15 per month up to the present, so that their real value has eroded
significantly over time. Finally, there is essentially no career
structure for teachers, with pay increases within established grade
levels awarded solely on the basis of length of service (up to five
years before plateauing), and little scope for mobility between grades
without adding more formal education. Addressing these and the salary
and retirement benefits issues discussod above is vital to improving the
morale of Lesotho's teachers as well as to attracting (and retaining)
5/ It should be noted that the 1990 legislation allows for retroactive
payment of pension benefits to teachers -- to 1982 for male teachers and
1984 for female teachers.



- 18 -
competent individuals to the t6iching service in a11 parts of the
country. The degree to which they can be #!dressed in the coming Fifth
Plan period is An large measure dependent on steps taken by Government
to increase recurrent budget allocations to the education sector (para.
2.19 (a)).
(b)   Managerial and Professional Support.  In addition to
fundamental problems of remuneration, teacher motivation has also been
adversely affected by the lack of effective managerial and professional
support. Teaching service management problems stem in large part from
the continuing lack of clarity regarding the respective roles of the MOE
and proprietors in education service delivery. Prior to 1978, when
Government assumed responsibility for the payment of teachers' salaries,
all matters pertaining to the management of teachers were entirely the
responsibility of the proprietors, who covered teachers salaries from
their own funds and parent contributions. subsequent to 1980, however,
efforts were made (sometimea resisted by proprietors) tc gradually
increase MOE's role in the management of teachers, until in 1984 the
decision was taken to establish an independent Teaching Service
Commission (TSC) comprised of representatives of the proprietors, MOE
and the general public to oversee payment of teachers' salaries and
assume responsibility for the management of teachers' (including
recruitment, placement, transfers, promotion, discipline standards,
dismissal etc.). While, in theory, this arrangement represented a
promising compromise between MOE and proprietors, in practice the TSC
has remained an extremely weak institution, unable to meet regularly,
take necessary decisions or serve as a focal point for meeting teachers'
needs for managerial support. Moreover, it has lacked the necessary
staffing, equipment and financial resources required to efficiently
carry out its administrative functions or establish a presence at the
district/local levels, with the result that it has continued to rely
almost wholly on proprietors' recommendations on all matters relating to
teachers. At the same time, many proprietors at the local level have
distanced themselves from teacher management, viewing teachers as public
servants, and, as such, the responsibility of Government. In this
situation, teachers have experienced considerable confusion as to where
their allegiances are expected to lie, or where they should turn to
resolve problems related to their employment conditions. During the
recent teachers' strike, this issue was raised as a major problem
affecting teacher morale and job satisfaction.
Lack of adequate professional support has been another important
factor affecting teachers' ability to effectively carry out their
teaching and classroom management responsibilities, or adapt to adverse
teaching/learning environments. A key issue in this regard --
ineffective day-to-day management at school level -- has already been
discussed briefly in para. 2.17 (b) (iii). Similarly, the absence,
until recently, of a recognized teachers' association to cater to
teachers' professional needs and represent them with the TSC has
contributed to a deprofessionalization of the teaching force. Another
major factor affecting teacher motivation and performance is the failure
of the MOE and/or school proprietors to provide systematic opportunities
for in-service training and sharing of professional experience with
peers. Although a number of initiatives in this regard were begun with



- 19 -
donor (mainly World Bank, U.S.A. and U.K.) assistance -- including the
LIET program designed to upgrade skills and certify unqualified
teachers, the district resource teacher system aimed at assisting
teachers responsible for multiple classes at different grades, and the
curriculum dissemination network intended to increase teacher
understanding of curriculum changes -- these have not always been
systematically incorporated into the MOE program or linked to specific
teacher development strategies, thus remaining ad hoc in nature.
Finally, pre-service training has, in many instances, been inadequate to
equip teachers to face the realities of classroom teaching in poorly
equipped and managed schools, especially in terms of the special skills
necessary to manage large classes of young children at the lowest levels
of the primary system. This lack of preparedness for the world of work
has also undoubtedly had a detrimental impact on teacher morale and
professionalism.
C. Donor Involvement in the Education Sector
2.21        As discussed in Sections A and B of this chapter, investment
expenditures in Lesotho's education sector have been financed mainly by
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies including the World Bank. In
1987, for example, aid accounted for more than three-quarters of
expenditures on educational facilities, transport and technical
assistance. Foreign assistance, in turn, was dominated in the Fourth
Plan period by the USAID-funded Basic and Non-Formal Education Systems
Project and the World Bank-supported Fourth Education Project (discussed
in some detail in Section D below). The main focus of each of these
projects has been on relieving some of thte most serious constraints in
primary education, including classroom. construction and equipping,
teacher training, improving the end-of-cycle test, increasing access to
textbooks, and strengthening curricula in some subjects. While these
investments have had a positive impact xn the subsector, there is still
much to be done as the preceding section on sectoral issues indicates.
2.22        Other important donors in edu. ition include: (i) the Federal
Republic of Germany (FRG) which is supporting investments in technical
and vocational education at LP; (ii) the Ev :opean Community (EC) which
is active both in training Basotho for skih9d jobs in the Highlands
Water Scheme and in financing math and sciot lee enrichment programs at
NUL; (iii) the U.K. Overseas Development Administration (ODA) which is
supporting the science faculty at NUL and helping to strengthen the
secondary inspectorate; (iv) the Irish Government which is providing
support for industrial training and for training of teachers to teach
practical subjects in secondary schools; (v) the African Development
Bank (AfDB) which is supporting a range of activities including
construction of science laboratories and teacher housing for secondary
schools; and (vi) the World Food Programme (WFP) which has supported
school feeding and agriculture teaching in primary and secondary
schools. It is expected that most of these donors will maintain their
support to Lesotho's education and training sector during the Fifth Plan
period. In addition, a number of other donors (including UNDP and
UNICEF) are likely to expand their, heretofore relatively limited,



- 20 -
support for the education sector, following on the 1990 "Education For
All' world conference.
D. Bank Roll and Assistance Strategy
2.23        Bank Role.  Since 1974, the World Bank, through its
concessional financing arm, the International Development Association
(IDA), has provided Lesotho US$31.5 million through four education
projects, mainly to help keep pace with population growth by expanding
enrollments at the primary level, improve the quality of primary and
secondary education, upgrade vocational training facilities and
establish programs for non-formal education. The specific objectives of
each of the four projects are described belows
(a)   The First Education Project (Credit 497-LSO), approved in
July 1974, for US$4.0 million, was designed to: (i) expand
technical and commercial education at the senior secondary level;
(ii) establish an extension college (the Lesotho Distance Teaching
Center) for adult and non-formal education; and (iii) provide
facilities and equipment for the introduction of a new and more
practically-oriented curriculum in six general secondary schools.
The project was completed by the original credit closing date,
having substantially achieved its educational objectives and
physical targets, apart from lower-than-anticipated participation
in the distance teaching program.
(b)   The Second Education Project (Credit 748-LSO), approved in
November 1977, for US$7.5 million, was designed to (i) expand two
senior secondary technical schools; (ii) unify and encourage
curriculum development efforts through the provision of a National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC); (iii; help establish a base
for trade-testing; (iv) increase the number of general secondary
schools with facilities for implementing the practinal curriculum;
and (v) encourage a community-outreach program and the use of
project-provided facilities during free periods by adults and out-
of-school youth. After getting off to a good start, the project
encountered implementation delays due to weak administration.
However, the problem was resolved in early 1980 and implementation
improved significantly, although a postponement of the closing
date by one year was approved to allow for completion of all
project components.
(c)   The Third Education Project (Credit 1148-LSO), which was
approved in May 1981, provided US$10.0 million for (i) the
improvement in quality of primary education through construction
of 150 classrooms and establishment of a revolving fund scheme for
the provision of textbooks in English, Sesotho and mathematics;
and (ii) the expansion of vocational trainling facilities through
support for the rural skills training center at Thaba Tseka and
the Lesotho Opportunities Industrialization Center. About midway
through the project, the Government received Bank Group approval
to use the credit savings arising from the greatly expanded
purchasing power of the US dollar to expand the classroom



- 21 -
construction program. Consequently, the credit closing date was
delayed by one year, to September 1987, to permit completion of
the project additions.
(d)   The Fourth Education Project 'Credit 1512-LSO), approved in
July 1984, involved a credit of US$10.0 million equivalent aimed
at (i) improving quality of primary education through construction
of 330 classrooms and in-service training of teachers and
headteachers; (ii) provision of workshop and classroom facilities
and science laboratories at secondary school, complemented by in-
service training of vocational teachers; and (iii) establishment
of a business/commercial stream at an existing vocational school.
The credit, which was originally due to close in September 1989,
was extended by two years mainly to allow for the use of savings
to meet urgently-needed technician level skills at ministries
concerned with infrastructure development, which had lost skilled
staff to the Highlands Water Scheme. The project's closing date
is now September 1991.
2.24        Lessons Learned.  Based on a review of Project Completion
Reports (PCRs) and Operations Evaluation Department (OED) audits, where
available, it seem clear that experience with the above projects has
been largely positive in terms Lf meeting immediate physical and
operational targets. With regard to the qualitative results, frequent
mention is made in the PCRs of the success of the projects in
institutionalizing capacity for cost-effective classroom construction
with limited manpower and technical assistance resources, and of the
establishment of the revolving fund scheme for the provision of primary
school textbooks. The main area of criticism concerns the continued
efforts in successive projects to expand teaching of practical subjects
in secondary schools, despite persistent problems of teaching staff
shortages, problems with availability of materials and poor equipment
maintenance. The recent Bank policy paper on Vocational and Technical
Education and TraLninp, 1991, which reviews experience with diversified
secondary education across comntries, shows that these problems are
widespread globally, and, on a policy level, concludes that "the extra
resources used in many countries to replace part of the academic
curriculum with a few vocational courses would be better invested in
improving learning achievement in the academic curriculum, or in
increasing access". Finally, the Lesotho PCRs stress the need for
continued and intensified efforts to improve the quality of primary
education and recommend closer attention to the broader policy,
institutional and managerial framework within which investment projects
are developed.
2.25        In line with these latter PCR recommendations, the Bank (in
1989) undertook a comprehensive sector study of education and training
in LesothAo (Report No. 8066-LSO) as a basis for initiating a broader
policy dialogue with Government on future directions for (and Bank
assistance to) the sector. Many of the issues highlighted in the
preceding section (B) of this chapter were identified through the study,
and key study recommendations have been incorporated in Government's
Fifth Plan education submission which forms the framework for the
project proposed later in this report. The sector study, which involved



- 22 -
intensive consultation with Government counterparts, also helped lay the
foundation for increased donor coordination in the education sector by
involving USAID and ODA in both the data-gathering and analytic work.
2.26        Bank Sectoral Assistance Strategy.  Recognizing the central
role of human resource development, especially education and training,
to long-term sustainable economic development in Lesotho, the Country
Strategy Paper stresses continued Bank financial assistar.ce for
education in both optimistic and pessimistic scenarios. The major
thrusts of our sectoral assistance strategy are as follows: (a) to
assist Government to develop a realistic, comprehensive strategy for
sectoral development as a framework for coordinating domestic and donor
investments in the sector; (b) to help Government address fundamental
structural issues of sectoral management, financing and staffing to
create an enabling environment for enhancing the effectiveness of
available sectoral resources; and (c) to assist in the ambitious effort
to halt the troubling decline in educational quality and internal
efficiency which has accompanied the rapid expansion of enrollments
during the past decade. As a major donor with a long history of
involvement in education and training in Lesotho, the Bank aims, through
continued financial and technical support for the sector, to consolidate
and expand on past successes, while also supporting Government's efforts
to more consciously direct sectoral development. The project proposed
in this report (and the preparation process associated with its
development) is the main vehicle by which we hope to achieve these aims.
In addition, beginning in FY93 we plan to undertake, jointly with
Government, a more detailed study of employment and training which would
take into account domestic and South African political and socio-
economic developments which can be expected to have a major impact on
job opportunities and training needs of the Basotho people.
III. GOVERNHENT STRATEGY AND FIVE-YEAR ACTION PLAN
3.1         To address the key issues outlined in Chapter II and work towards
the goals outlined in Chapter I, Government has developed and conditted itself
to a comprehensive sectoral strategy and action plan covering the Fifth Plan
period (1991/92-1995/96). The reform program was developed through an
iterative, consultative process, taking into account (a) Government's
objectives in the sector, (b) the requirements of the sector, (c) resource
constraints, (d) implementation capacity, (e) the prospects for the overall
economic and budgetary picture over the next 5-7 years, and (f) the
feasibility of proposed policy adjustments taking into account consensus-
building and political economy issues. This Chapter describes in some detail
the main features of the strategy and associated five-year action plan, which
form the foundation for the project proposed in Chapter IV.
A. Sectoral Ob ectives and Expenditure Plan
3.2         As indicated in Chapter I, the Government's overall objective for
education sectoral development during the Fifth Plan period is to emphasize
improvements in quality and internal efficiency at all levels of the education



- 23 -
system, while de-emphasizing further expansion except where absolutely
necessary. Consensus on this objective was reached after extensive discussion
and debate within Government in recognition of the serious problems of wastage
in the existing system and the financial and institutional constraints that
pre,clude further major expansion on a sustainable basis. The main agenda for
the Plan period has been summarized in a detailed list and timetable of
actions to be undertaken, as set forth in a Letter of Education Development
Policy with an attached matrix of specific objectives and measures. This
letter, signed by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Government and
prepared in consultation with the MOE, is included in Annex 2, with the matrix
attached. In addition, the Government (i.e., MOE) has prepared a more
detailed sectoral development plan and an associated estimate of investment
and incremental recurrent expenditures (including recurrent expenditures
related to improving the effectiveness of past investments). This MOE five-
year sectoral development plan was approved prior to credit negotiations. The
expenditure plan and the action program are, by design, and of necessity,
closely interlinked. The expenditure plan supports and facilitates the
reforms, and vice versa. Each depends for its success on the satisfactory
progress of the other.
3.3         The policy and plan package proposed for the five-year period
constitutes a serious attempt by the Government to begin to address the
principal problems and issues in the sector, as outlined in Chapter II. When
fully implemented this reform package is expected to improve:
o     quality, by improving facilities, addressing issues of teacher
morale, deploying more teachers, increasing learning materials and
instituting curriculum improvements, and strengthening assessment;
o     efficiency, by reducing primary dropout and repetition rates,
reducing numbers of small uneconomic secondary schools, making
more intensive use of facilities and teachers at TVE institutions
and reducing non-teaching overhead at NUL;
o     resource allocation and equity, by increasing the share of
education resources devoted to the primary level where
expenditures per pupil are excessively low and reducing relative
allocations at NUL;
o     sectoral management, by rationalizing the central MOE structure,
establishing an HOE presence at district and local levels,
increasing community involvement in school management, and
establishing a more explicitly contractual relationship between
the Government and proprietors; and
o     access, especially to technical training, through systematizing
evening programs for out-of-school youth and adults and
strengthening trade-testing as a means of acquiring certified
technical and vocational skills.
3.4         The associated expenditure plan consists of approved targets for
investments and recurrent spending by the central Government for the education
sector during the Fifth Plan period. Its parameters were set taking into
account: (a) sectoral recurrent resource needs to make past investments more



- 24 -
effective as well as to absorb incremental recurrent costs of proposed Fifth
Plan investments; (b) the likely future growth in public budgetary resources
(especially recurrent resources) V; (c) realistic estimates of likely levels
of donor assistance for education during the Fifth Plan period; (d) the
recommendations of a recent (1988) public expenditure review and successive
Policy Framework Papers (PFPs) with regard to appropriate levels of
expenditure on education; and (e) the possible 'mpact on other sectors of
substantial increases in education sector spending (to avoid a "crowding out"
effect). In line with established Government priorities, the proposed
expenditure plan devotes about 40 percent of investment resources to primary
education, with the remainder being allocated among activities aimed at
developing other levels of the education system, including necessary
activities to improve sectoral management and strengthen the teaching force.
Specifically, about 41.5 percent of investment resources are to be allocated
to primary, 12.1 percent to secondary, 13.6 percent to TVE, 3.2 percent to
NUL, 12.9 percent to strengthening sectoral management, 11.2 percent to
teacher training and the remaining 5.7 percent to a range of smaller programs
such as early childhood development, non-formal education and special
education.
3.5         Additional recurrent resources allocated to education in the first
year of the Plan period will be highly concentrated on improving existing
teachers' conditions of service and on recruiting about 260 additional
teachers for primary. In subsequent years, the main additional costs will be
associated with continued recruitment of new teachers to avert deterioration
of pupil:teacher ratios in primary education, reorganizatic' and
decentralization of the MOE, and incremental vehicle and equ.pment operation
and maintenance costs associated with new investments. Proposed improvements
in sectoral management, especially strengthenir.g of district level education
management and improved inspection and teacher support/guidance, will also
consume incremental recurrent allocations. By the end of the plan period some
activities now financed through the investment budget (e.g., refresher
training for teachers and school administrators and production/dissemination
of curricula and instructional materials) will also need to be financed
regularly through the recurrent budget. Annex 3 provides further information
regarding expenditures on education in Lesotho.
3.6         To accommodate these recurrent resource requirements, Government
expects to substantially increase recurrent allocations to education over the
next five-year period. In part, this increase is feasible because of expected
growth in the total national recurrent budget (estimated to be 4.2 percent per
annum on average in real terms during the Fifth Plan period). In addition,
the Government, given its commitment to education, plans to increase the share
of the national recurrent budget devoted to the operation of the MOE-
supervised education and training system to about 24.2 percent by the end of
the Fifth Plan period. Besides a real increase of 54.4 percent anticipated
between 1990/91 and 1991/92 (mainly to accommodate a large, one-off increase
in teachers' salaries and benefits), it plans during the remaining four years
of the Plan period to increase real recurrent allocations to education at an
6/ Based on projections developed by an IMF/World Bank team working with
the Lesotho Governnent on public expenditure targets associated with an
IMF Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF).



- 25 -
average annual rate of at least 4 percent. These projected increases and the
share of education in the total are in line with recommendations included in
the Bank's 1988 Public Expenditure Review and the PFPs developed in concert
with the IMF SAF and ESAF. They are also in line with sectoral recurrent
resource needs as described in para. 3.5 above.
3.7         WiLh regard to intra-sectoral allocations, the Government intends
to make a concerted effort to increase the share of primary education --
including primary teacher training and strengthening of administration in
areas related to supporting primary education -- within the total MOE budget,
while restraining growth in recurrent spending for university education. It
plans, therefore, to devote a minimum of 70 percent of the incremental real
recurrent resources allocated to the MOE to the primary subsector and, at the
same time, to allow no real growth in the MOE recurrent grant to NUL. These
planned measures would largely address the sectoral financing issues discussed
in para. 2.19, helping to improve the financial base upon which the successful
implementation of much of the five-year action plan rests. Given the
importance of the sectoral and intra-sectoral recurrent expenditure targets to
the successful implementation and sustainability of the Five-Year Plan (and,
hence, the proposed project), assurances were obtained during negotiations
that Government would allocate resources to education as planned, in
accordance with its letter of development policy and associated policy matrix.
B. The Five-Year Sectoral Action Plan
3.8         The sectoral action plan covers each level of the education and
training system, from early childhood education to university. The policies,
strategies and action programs agreed on by Government with respect to most of
these areas and presented in summary form in the policy matrix are discussed
in this section. Activities proposed in areas such as early childhood
education, special education and non-formal education are not, however,
described in this section as they have little bearing on the project proposed
in Chapter IV.
Primary Education
3.9         Government's strategy for working towards the year 2000 target of
"education for all' involves, during this plan period, a concerted effort to
reduce the unacceptably high levels of wastage which characterize the system
at present -- before possibly embarking on further expansion of enrollments
during the next plan period (1996/97-2000/2001). The current plan thus
highlights the need for a number of interlinked initiatives aimed at
addressing the major subsectoral constraints described in Chapter II. These
initiatives are: first, to reduce overcrowding by providing additional
physical facilities, recruiting more teachers, limiting repetition, and
reducing the nuwbers of under- and over-age pupils6; second, to improve the
7/ At present the primary education system includes a very high proportion
(25 percent) of under- and over-age pupils, who tend to swell classes, are
often bored as learning materials are not targeted to their age group (with
concomitant discipline problems), and move in and out of the education system,
contributing substantially to the high repetition and drop-out rates.



- 26 -
quality of instruction by streamlining the curriculum, supplying more
instructional materials, improving assessment and improving teachers' skills;
and third, to improve loccl level school management. With the exception of
management and teacher recruitment issues which are discussed later in this
section (paras. 3.33 and 3.36), further details of the planned actions are
spelled out below:
3.10        Phvsical Facilities.  While Government's long-term goal is to
reduce pupil:classroom ratios to 40:1 from their current levels (80:1
including church halls), implementation capacity and financial constraints
preclude achievement of that target during this plan period. Indeed, given
expected rises in numbers of pupils enrolled in primary schools as a result of
continuing high population growth, substantial effort will be required in
building new classrooms and rehabilitating existing ones simply to prevent
further deterioration in the pupil:classroom ratio. For this Plan period,
therefore, MOE's main target is to prevent further deterioration of
pupil:classroom ratios1. With this objective in mind, and taking into
account that 14 percent of primary pupils (48,160) are without any classrooms
at all, the MOE intends, during the next five years, to build 850 classrooms,
in an effort to provide classrooms for all pupils currently taught outdoors as
-jell as provide additional classrooms to especially overcrowded schools. In
addition, in order to facilitate refurbishing of dilapidated classrooms, MOE
would initiate a program to provide materials or cash to local communities
willing to contribute their own labor to classroom rehabilitation, giving
priority to those identified by a proposed school mapping exercise as most in
need of repairs. Provision will also be made for construction of latrines
where required, either through a community self-help approach or by including
latrines in construction contracts when new classrooms are built.   Finally,
it is planned to provide furniture for all new classrooms as well as for
existing classrooms not equipped with desks and chairs. The overall objective
of the planned physical facility program is to relieve constraints related to
overcrowding at primary and especially at lower primary levels. Therefore,
given past experience of diversion of government-provided facilities by
proprietors to Standards 4-7 (or as the basis for starting-up secondary
schools), formal agreements would be signed between the MOE and each school
concerning the use and maintenance of facilities provided.
3.11        Curriculum and Instructional Haterials.  In the area of the
curriculum, Government's policy and strategy for the Fifth Plan has two main
thrusts: (i) to strengthen teaching of basic skills at all levels, but
especially in Standards 1-4; and (ii) to encourage teaching of practical
skills in order to encourage a positive attitude towards work in children and
prepare them for productive self-employment. With regard _o the first of
these objectives, Government intends to draw up new curriculum policy
guidelines, including a comprehensive national time-table, followed by
revision of most of the core syllabi for primary schools. Since the existing
guidelines were issued in 1967, there have been major clhanges in primary
schooling which have affected the number of subjects offered, the content of
8/ Although, of course, modest improvements are likely to be seen towards the
end of the Plan period (and more substantial improvements during the next Plan
period) as policies to reduce repetition and exclude over- and under-age
pupils from formal, Government-supported primary schools begin to take effect.



- 27 -
different subjects, and the amount of time needed per subject. The new
curriculum guidelines (to be drawn up by the MOE's National Curriculum
Committee - NCC - in collaboration with other relevant agencies) would reflect
these changes, specifying the core subjects for primary schools and the amount
of time to be allocated for each subject. Upon completion of the guidelines
(by Mid-1992), the National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) would revise
the core syllabi for primary school subjects, iocusing mainly on "trimming"
each syllabus so that the content can be effectively covered in the time
available per subject. improvements in the design of each syllabus will also
be instituted, and teachers' guides and pupil workbooks developed for
distribution to primary schools. In addition, successful initiatives begun in
the Fourth Plan period will be continued, including radio instruction programs
for English and Sesotho and production of a quarterly Sesotho supplementary
reader for Standards 1-3, entitled 'Mahlaseli". All materials will be
developed by NCDC in collaboration with the Instructional Materials Resource
Center (IMRC) for distribution through the School Supplies Unit (SSU), which
manages the ongoing textbook revolving fund scLeme. The capacity of each of
these three institutions will also be strengthened during the Plan period to
ensure satisfactory completion of the targets.
3.12        With regard to Government's second objective of strengthening
practical skills, the Plan's main focus will be on teaching of agriculture,
following relatively successful initiatives in the last Plan period to develop
and disseminate instructional materials relating to practical skills
development in a range of subjects, including Art and Crafts, Home Economics,
Health and Social Studies. Within agriculture, the MOE intends, with support
from WFP, to help pupils become proficient in self-supporting agricultural
activities -- through a phased withdrawal of food aid from primary school
feeding programs, in concert with provision of materials, tools and technical
advice to enable the schools, supported by school committees, to undertake
self-reliance projects such as gardening, tree planting, piggeries, poultry-
keeping and the like. Over the Plan period these self-reliance projects are
to be initiated in a total of about 300 schools, and given the emphasis on
school committees/community involvemeut are expected to reinforce parents'
role in local level school management. Recognizing, however, that similar
school self-reliance agriculture programs in other countries have been much
less than successful in achieving objectives of inculcating a positive
attitude to physical work in pupils and the risk that agriculture initiativ3s
could detract from time spent in acquiring basic literacy and numeracy skills,
Government intends during 1993/94 to undertake a thorough, independert
evaluation of the self-reliance program to decide on its overall desirability
and/or the need for changes in its design if it is to be continued.
3.13        Pupil Assessment.  The Primary School Leaving Eamination (PSLE),
administered at the end of the primary cycle (standard 7), is the main vehicle
for evaluating primary student achievement in Lesotho's present system.
Traditionally, the main purpose of the PSLE has been to Oration' secondary
school places, so that the general orientatLJ. of the test has been norm-
referenced rather than criterion-referenced (i.e., aimed at evaluating student
achievement in relation to the expectations of the curriculum). During the
past five-year period, MOE has made efforts to modify the test's orientation
in the latter direction as well as to upgrade its reliability as a testing
instrument, through developing a computerized item bank of test questions in
English, Sesotho, Mathematics, Social Studies and Science based on items



- 28 -
prepared by teachers at special workshops and subsequent editing at NCDC's
Testing and EvaLuation Unit. During the Fifth Plan period the focus will
shift to improving the validity of the PSLE, to help ensure that the
examination reflects adequately t a goals of the curriculum. In addition, by
1994, a transfer would be effected of the PSLE from NCDC to the Examinations
Council of Lesotho (ECOL), following completion of a study to determine the
size of the subvention to be paid by MOE to ECOL for administering the
examination. In addition, an important focus during the Fifth Plan will be to
introduce a sound system of competency-based continuous assessment in primary
schools, building on end-of-level tests developed and disseminated during the
Fourth Plan for Standards 4-6 in English, Mathematics and Sesotho. In
'991/92, therefore, existing draft end-of-level tests will be trialled,
printed and distributed in conjunction with in-service training for teachers
in the use of the tests. For the lower primary standards, skills check-lists
in English, mathematics and Sesotho will be pre-tested, modified, printed and
distributed, to be used by teachers in evaluating and diagnosing learning
problems. The resulting improvements in teachers' pupil assessment capability
will be essential to MOE efforts to reduce repetition in primary schools.
3.14        In-Service Training for Teachers.  A major effort to provide
systematic refresher training for teachers would be made during the Plan
period, focusing on both strengthening pedagogical skills and disseminating
new initiatives in curriculum and assessment. In-service training would be
provided through both a school-based approach and through the development of a
program of special in-service courses to be coordinated by the central MOE
inspectorate. Under the first approach, a specially-trained "District
Resource Teacher" (DRT) will be placed in a selected primary school in each
sub-district to provide ongoing guidance to staff at the base school and
neighboring schools as well as receive special funds to hold workshops on
selected topics related to teaching-learning methods. Under the second
approach, short seminars would be organized (principally during school
vacations) on a number of specialized topics related to curricular and testing
innovations to be introduced in schools, with teachers nominated to
participate in accordance with a systematized schedule. Apart from
strengthening teacher skills, the planned in-service programs would also help
to improve teacher motivation and morale by helping to reduce the professional
isolation cited by many as a source of dis_.tisfaction.
3.15        Efficiency.  The quality improvements resulting from the
initiatives described above (together with Plan initiatives related to raising
teacher morale, teacher availability and improved local level school
management -- paras. 3.34-3.37) can be expected to raise the efficiency of
primary schooling in Lesotho -- defined as cost per vupil completing the
primary cycle -- by enhancing learning and hence lowering pupil attrition and
repetition. In addition, recognizing that internal efficiency is unacceptably
low (para. 2.7), Government intends during the Fifth Plan to reinforce this
effect with specific policy measures targeted directly at reducing repetition
ana drop-out. Firstly, in view of research findings that repetition, beyond a
certain point, does not add much to pupil learning (and may have unintended
negative effects on self-esteem, with consequent damage to teachability and
initiative), the MOE intends as of 1993/94 to introduce a policy of limiting
repetition to a maximum of twice per 7-year primary cycle, focusing initially



- 29 -
on lowlands arease. It will then be the choice of the parents to either
withdraw the child from school or authorize promotion. Secondly, given that a
high proportion of drop-out and repetition is attributable to over- and under-
age pupils, who are less able to benefit from a curriculum and instructional
materials targeted to a different age group, the MOE plans to reduce the very
wide pupil age-spread now apparent at primary level.  To this end, the MO;
would, by the start of the 1992 school year promulgate a policy prohibiting
enrollment of children under 6 years as verified by a birth or baptismal
certificate; and, by 1994, prohibit also the acceptance to Standard 1 of
children older than 8 years.
3.16        Those excluded from formal primary school under the over-age
policy would have the option of enrolling in non-formal literacy and numeracy
programs currently .,ing offered by LDTC, the materials and pedagogical
techniques for which are designed explicitly for older children and
adolescents. In addition, a comprehensive study of wastage in primary school
is planned in 1991/92 to identify other policies, incentives or program
changes that could further ameliorate present problems. The policy changes
already planned should nevertheless have a substantial impact on reducing
overcrowding at primary schools, with beneficial results on the quality of
education of the children still enrolled. Monitoring of school compliance
with the new policies as well as existing ones associated with the opening of
unauthorized schools would be undertaken by the strengthened district level
MOE inspectorates, and effective sanctions (i.e., fines) wc.uld be applied in
cases of violations by school proprietors. It is anticipated that a well-
targeted public information campaign would be implemented prior to the
introduction of the policy regarding over-age enrollment to ensure that
parents and schools would be prepared for it.
Secondarw Education
3.17        During the Fifth Plan period, the Government's reform strategies
within the secondary subsector will concentrate on the same general areas as
in primary education, although the amount of resources devoted to the primary
level will be far grezter over the five years. In order to address the
quality and efficiency issues identified in paras. 2.9-2.10, policies and
investments during the plan period are aimed at strengthening the
teaching/learning and pupil assessment process, rationalizing the number of
secondary schools per catchment area and the subjects taught within schools,
and management improvements. The principal activities in these areas are
described below.
3.18        The Teaching-Learning Process and Assessment.  In the secondary
subsector, efforts to improve the teaching-learning process will focus on
mathematics, science and English and involve: (a) curriculum development; (b)
improving the physical environment for teaching where necessary; and (c)
expanding school-based professional support to teachers. Curriculum
development efforts for the Fifth Plan will concentrate on the junior
9/ In highlands areas physical access to schools for many children is
disrupted during the wet season, implying that children are forced to miss
school for extended periods -- thus necessitating repetition.



- 30 -
secondary (Forms A, B and C) level. Extensive development is not envisaged at
the senior secondary (Forms D and E) level which received greater attention
during the Fourth Plan, although modification of the syllabi for some subjects
will be undertaken as necessitated by the ongoing localization of the COSC
examination. In addition to syllabus revision and streamlining for each
junior secondary subject, it is planned to develop and disseminate detailed
teachers' handbooks designed to recommend teaching methods and provide
guidance on the scope and sequencing of subject matter to be taught. In some
instances, for example, senior secondary science, it is planned to reduce the
number of possible electives in keeping with Lesotho's resource constraints.
In these cases curriculum development work, including teachers' guides, would
be undertaken at the senior secondary level during the Fifth Plan period.
With regard to secondarv school physical facilities, the principal aim for the
plan period is to continue efforts to provide specialized facilities such as
laboratories and workshops where these are lacking, to strengthen the teaching
of science and practical subjects. Between 1991-95. a project supported by
AfDB would assist Government to build 40 science laboratories (including
equipment, furniture and materials), 30 practical studies workshops in
addition to 20 classrooms in schools with high enrollment and a clear need for
extra space. Finally, an ongoing ODA assisted project which provides school-
based professional support to mathematics, science and English teachers will
be expanded during the Fifth Plan, using a modified approach which would
include both subject and management training.
3.19        In the area of examinations, the main aims for the Fifth Plan
would be to continue and intensify ongoing initiatives to strengthen the
Junior Certificate (JC) examination administered by ECOL, through technical
assistance and training for ECOL staff and through extending the range of
examination formats. In addition, efforts will continue to make the
examination reflect more accurately the objectives of the curriculum. ECOL's
capacity to provide feedback irformation on examination results to teachers
will also be extended so that teachers will have better guidance on areas of
the curriculum requiring extra attention. For the COSC examination, the main
thrust during this Plan period (assisted by the Cambridge Syndicate) will he
to undertake preparations for the localization of the exam in 1995. During
the Fifth Plan this will involve training of Basotho markers and increased
marking of exam papers in Lesotho, under the guidance of Cambridge Syndicate
supervisors, and identification and training of Basotho teachers and other
education professionals in the setting of exam papers. With regard to
continuous assessment, the objective at JC level is to incorporate student
scores for regular practical work in the science subjects into the final JC
science grade. Moreover, it is planned to streamline the existing quarterly
tests at secondary. While providing a form of continuous assessment, the
tests are presently very cumbersome, with schools taking up about 12 weeks of
potential instruction time in preparing for, administering and marking the
tests. During the next five years, a series of measures will be adopted to
shorten the time spent on the tests, to allow more time to be spent on
covering the curriculum more thoroughly during the school year.
3.20        Increasing Efficiency in the Secondary Subsector.  As discussed in
Chapter II, to date, growth in the number of secondary schools has occurred in
an unregulated and unplanned manner, with many of these schools now competing
for students in overlapping catchment areas. The Government plans, therefore,
to begin the process of rationalizing the secondary subsector through the



- 31 -
following means: (a) establishinig and strictly enforcing criteria for opening
secondary schools (draft criteria include the following: serving a population
of at least 200 students with no alternative schooling opportunity, access to
sufficient numbers of furnished classrooms and water, and an active School
Board); (b) identifying and closing schools which have been illegally
established -- or at a minimum, withholding public funds from these schools;
and (c) by 1993, beginning to allocate public resources for teaching posts
strictly based on a minimum studentsteacher ratio of 25sl. In addition, in
view of doubts raised regarding the efficacy of incorporating TVE at the
secondary level, the MOE would by 1993 undertake a thorough independent
evaluation of the ongoing Oiversified secondary program to determine its cost-
effectiveness and its impact on other aspects of the curriculum. Based on the
recommendations of the evaluation, the MOE would take a decision as to the
continuation or modification of the existing program.
Technical and Vocational Education
3.21        Government policy attaches high priority to the development of
technical and vocational skills as a key element in ensuring the development
of Basotho industry and creating local employment opportunities, especially in
light of the declining employment availability for Basotho workers in the RSA
mines. However, cognizant of the high per student costs of TVE offered
through the formal education system, and the potential for mismatch between
such training and industrial needs, Government intends during the Fifth Plan
period to move cautiously in expanding formal training capacity (focusing more
on improving its relevance, quality and cost-effectiveness) with expansion
occurring mainly through strengthening of trade-testing to promote efficient
development of skilled manpower.
3.22        Tecbnician and Craft Level Training.  The main activities planned
for the next five years with regard to formal TVE have the following
objectives: (a) to strengthen the quality of technician training (offered at
LP) in the areas of architecture and civil, mechanical and electrical
engineering; (b) to standardize and improve the relevance of curricula for
craft courses being offered at LP and two church-owned institutions and
encourage the introduction of evening classes to expand output without
expanding physical facilities; (c) upgrading existing TSTC courses and
initiating a range of measures to lower that institution's unit costs; and (d)
introduction of evening classe! in institutions with TVE facilities to make
more intensive use of the facilities and thereby lower unit costs. With
regard to the first of these objectives, the main activities planned are
included in an ECIGTZ/ODA-funded project which is aimed at upgrading of
practical training through teacher fellowships, technical assistance, revision
of course curricula and syllabi, upgrading of LP workshop facilities, better
monitoring of industrial attachments and improving (currently poor) hostel
accomnodations to help reduce student drop-out. It is also planned to
introduce a new course in land surveying by the 1994 academic year. Within
craft training, efforts will be focused on developing a standardized modular
curriculum for four courses (bricklaying, carpentry, automotive mechanics and
electrical installation) anJ on unifying end-of-course assessment to permit
offering of a national certificate with regional recognition. The proposed
modular approach is intended to allow for greater servicing of industry needs
as it would permit enrollment of employed workers for specific modules during
short-term block releases. Activities planned at TSTC (the main TVE



- 32 -
institution in the highlands) include upgrading of woodworking, construction,
met.lworking, textile fabrication and leatherworking courses to national
accceditatien lev 1, expanding enrollments by at least 50 percent to reduce
unit costs and service unmet highlands demand for skilled workers and
introduction of cost-offsetting activities (e.g., poultry keeping and cement
bloc production). Evening courses would be introduced in about 12
instituitions, to accommodate industrial needs and increase output relative to
capacity.
3.23        Skills Certification/Trade Testing.  A number of developmental
problems have been identified in the skills certification/trade testing area
as a result of experience during the Fourth Plan period, when nearly 800 tests
in 9 trades were carried out. Chief among these problems ares (a) the
inability to meet demand for tests; (b) the absence of capacity/mechanisms to
analyze the reasons for failures and to design and implement supplementary
courses; (c) the unduly burdensome logistics involved in organizing the tests
at three locations, given shortages of supervisory staff; and (d) the limited
capacity for research and development (and formulation of adequate responses)
which has inhibited attention to a number of fields, e.g., in commercial
areas. It is therefore intended during the Fifth Plan period to establish a
centralized and specializid skills certification/industrial training center
which would offer those elements of testing and certification which are at
present not being dealt with, and which wtould expand and develop skills
certification/trade tes...ing within Lesotho. The Centre would, over time, also
offer in-service training courses in selected areas of industry and commerce,
a need frequently voiced by industry and trade representatives in both the
public and private sectors. It is planned that the centre would recover a
high proportion of its operating costs from test and course fees, thus not
adding excessively to the MOE's recurrent cost burden.
National Universit.y of Lesotho
3.24        NUL priorities for the Fifth Plan period are: (a) to improve the
quality of existing academic programs before embarking on any major expansion;
(b) to reduce non-teaching overhead as the primary means of containing growth
in unit costs; and (c) to strengthen NUL government through legislative and
other means. These priorities were established within a framework provided by
the Government which specifies that it would not allow any real increases in
the public recurrent grant (including student loans) to NUL during the coming
five-year period, so that recurrent costs associated with any new investments
would need to be covered through cost savings in existing operations,
increases in fee levels for tlhe current student body, and/or generation of
funds from private companies or other sources. Speciric planned activities
pertaining to the priorities are discussed in the following paragraphs.
3.25        Quality Imfirovements.  The principal goal with regard to quality
enhancement is the introduction of a subject or a modified course unit system
in place of the current hybrid system which, as discussed in para. 2.11,
hinders students from undertaking a coherent program of studies and unduly
absorbs faculty time in administration and paper-work at the expense of
tutorial and research activities. The proposed modifications to the academic
program, to be introduced in academi: year 1992/93, wou."d not only help
promote student competence in at least two disciplines but allow for more



- 33 -
regular interaction between students and faculty with regard to academic
performance, and simplify timetabling and associated paper-work. Related to
this change, NUL plans, inter alia, to adopt a comprehensive written academic
staffing plan b, 1992193, establish firmer controls over teaching schedules
and enforce expectations of sound teaching, research and University service.
In addition, investments would be made to facilitate faculty interaction on
academic and pedagogical subjects and to promote staff development through the
carrying out of research activities and further overseas training. Library
services would also be improved through acquisition of additional materials,
computerization of record-keeping and training of staff. Finally, in view of
the severe constraints in laboratory space for science teachiag, expansion of
the existing laboratory will be undertaken during the Fifth Plan. If
incremental funds become available as a result of planned cost containment
measures, these will be expended to introduce post graduate courses in
selected priority areas subsequent to 1993194.
3.26        Cost-Containment.  The NUL plan contains a number of activities
designed to contain or lower unit costs, generate savings or reorganize
existing functions with a view to increasing their efficiency. The main ones
are as follows: (a) temporarily freeze proposals for new academic programs and
creation of academic and non-academic positions; (b) maintain the 1990/91
enrollment levels in all areas except for increases in Science and Agriculture
until 1993/94 and increase the total NUL enrollment to 1200 by 1995/96; (c)
increase the minimum class size from 3 to 5 students and achieve a reasonable
staff/student ratio of 1:12, except in Science and Agriculture (1:10); (d)
require NUL institutes to become 50 percent self-financing by the end of the
Fifth Plan; (e) continue to implement the proposed early retirement program
for non-teaching staff, freeze proposals for new admlnistrative programs until
1993/94 (except the MIS) and reduce operating costs in non-essential areas;
(f) by 1992/93 review and revise existing remuneration and benefits for NUL
staff, including reducing subsidies for housing, commuting allowances and
education allowances; (g) improve insulation in teaching and living areas to
generate long-term savings on energy costs; (h) review existing service units
(e.g., laundry and garage) with a view to eliminating those that are a
financial drain on NUL and tighten cost controls in areas of NUL operation
such as purchasing and external contracting procedures; and (i) undertake a
comprehensive master plan to improve NUL physical planning.
3.27        NUL Government and Management.  With regard to NUL government, the
main objective for the Plan period is to approve a revised univeraity order
and statutes aimed inter alia at: (a) revising the structure and composition
of the NUL Council to help ensure its independence from internal university
politics; (b) to streamline procedures for personnel management to enable
quicker action as necessary (including strengthening discretionary powers for
the administration; and tc) reducing the number of senate committees from the
current number (22) to about 9 and reducing their size where feasible.
Activities to improve NUL management would include establishment of a
comprehensive management information system (to be supported by the Dutch
Government) concerning both the academic and non-academic elements of NUL
activities and establishment of a Development and Planning Office responsible
directly to the Vice-Chancellor to promote coordination between academic
planning, staff development and training, and university physical development.
Enactment of the revised NUL Order and Statutes is a condition of credit
effectiveness.



- 34 -
Monitoriaa and Evaluation
3.28        The MOE, through its statistics unit, collects extensive data on
the education system -- but these data frequently remain in tabular format
which is not especially useful in judging the effectiveness and efficiency of              L
programs. Recognizing that the information, if analyzed in terms of key
policy questions, could be tremendously useful to decision-makers in choosing
among policy options, the Government intends during the Fifth Plan to make a
serious effort to put in place a system to allow for regular monitoring and
evaluation of the degree to which (and the process by which) (a) the targets
of the Plan are being achieved, and (b) the educational system is meeting its
qualitative and quantitative goals. Towards the first of these ends, a basic
monitoring and evaluation system will be created within the Planning Unit to
help Heads of Departments develop strategic annual plans in accordance with
the terms of the Plan. Guidelines for sector-wide planning will be prepared
by the Ministry. In addition, periodic reviews will be conducted to assess
progress in achieving targets and to identify and make necessary policy
adjustments. Areas requiring collaboration among Department heads will be
identified. Technical assistance will be obtained to develop competence in
policy analysis, planning, coordination and task-based budgeting. To
strengthen its capacity to undertake the above activities, the Planning Unit
will be strengthened by the addition of staff and by training.
3.29        In order to achieve the second objective above, and to help
establish a base for development of a comprehensive system for the ongoing
evaluation of the entire education and training system, the MOE plans, during
the next five-year period, to concentrate its attention on improving the
monitoring of primary schooling. This will involve the conduct of eight
interrelated tasks as follows: (a) development of a long-term plan for the
eventual implementation of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system
for education and training with a special focus on the requirements for
primary education monitoring; (b) assessment of the current capacity for
continuous monitoring and incremental needs in terms of personnel and other
resources; (c) conduct of training for teaching personnel and local, district
and central level managers in the concepts and practice of educational
efficiency, the use of education data and the role of efficiency criteria in
making educational and policy decisions; (d) using data from the newly
available primary school end-of-level tests, skills checklists and PSLE
results, incorporation of measurement of student achievement across a broad
range of curricular taskst (e) designing and carrying out of national
assessments of pupil achievements, school conditions and teachers' attitudes
and perceptions to inform policy-makers and to provide baseline data against
which changes over time can be monitored; (f) improving disaggregation of
routinely-collected data on educational inputs so that breakdowns are
available by district, by school etc. and (g) implementation of a scheme to
provide regular feedback (in user-friendly form) to the four levels of
personnel identified in (c) above. The Evaluation Unit within NCDC, together
with the MOE Planning Unit and, where necessary, the Inepectorate, will take
the lead in organizing these activities.



- 35 -
Sectoral Management
3.30        Government's strategy for the Fifth Plan lays considerable
emphasis on resolving key management issues which have hampered the
functioning of the education system for several years. Responding to the
issues identified in Chapter II (para. 2.17), the Government's priorities
include: (a) reorganization of the central MOE, including modifying the grade
structure and standard operating procedures; (b) strengthening the MOE
presence at regional and district levels; and (c) clarifying the roles and
relationships between the MOE, school proprietors and parents.
3.31        Central MOE Reorganization.  Details of the proposed
reorganization of the MOE, the plan for which was approved by Government prior
to credit negotiations. are given in Annex 4. The main features of the
planned restructuring at the central level are: (a) the integration of project
units into the mainstream MOE structure; (b) the creation of a senior core
management team comprising the Principal Secretary, a second tier of senior
decision-making staff designated Chief Education Officers (CEOs) with
operational responsibility for educational management (mainly inspection
functions), curriculum services, teaching services and support services
respectively, plus the head of a strengthened planning unit; (c) granting of
autonomous status to NTTC and LP to relieve the MOE of day-to-day management
responsibility for these large institutions; (d) the introduction of a
rational grading structure linked to function and type of decision-making
responsibility; and (e) the institutionalization of a new management style and
procedures, aimed primarily at moving away from the present overcentralized
approach to decision-making and towards greater delegation. During the Fifth
Plan period, the MOE plans to enter into a twinning arrangement with a similar
institution abroad to facilitate the implementation of the planned
reorganization.
3.32        NOE Decentralization.  The proposed decentralization of the MOE
would involve substantial strengthening of the MOE offices at district level.
These strengthened district inspectorates will be the main vehicle not only
for inspection of primary and secondary schools but also for the inspection of
non-formal education and for the discharge of a range of administrative
functions that can be more effectively discharged at a level lower than the
central MOE. Within each district, the senior education officer (SEO) --
reporting directly to the CEO Educational Management at central level -- would
be responsible for organizing an inspection program per district, including a
definite inspection schedule. Inspection would be carried out by teams
assembled under the authority of the SEO. The teams would be concerned with
remedial action in schools and thus incorporate locally-based NTTC staff,
support teachers and managers as necessary. As most of these individuals are
already located at district level (albeit with little encouragement to date to
cooperate with each other) no significant increase in personnel is foreseen,
at least in the short-term, although complementary resources will be
necessary. In addition to inspection, it is intended that administrative
functions such as signing of teachers' contracts and assisting in the audit of
school accounts would also be transferred to the district offices during the
Fifth Plan period.
3.33        Roles of HOE, School Pro2rietors and Parents In Education.  As
discussed in para. 2.17 (b) the continued failure to forge an effective



_ 36 -
partnership between the three main actors in the management and financing of
Lesotho's education system has contributed to significant inefficiencies in
resource allocation and weak management of educational institutions throughout
the educational system, but especially at primary and secondary levels. Plan
proposals to introduce explicit contracts with school proprietors for use of
physical facilities and effective sanctions (i.e., fines or withdrawal of
public funds) for operation of unauthorized or sub-standard schools will help
to ensure that resources are used in accordance with national priorities in
the future. In addition, Government irtends to enact legislation early in the
Fifth Plan which would revise the existing educational act and include the
following features affecting the tri-partite relationships (a) that all
matters pertaining to the employment, management and placement of teachers
would be the direct responsibility of the MOE, with the TSC acting as an
advisory rather than executive body; (b) that each school would be required to
have a school board incorporating more representation than hitherto from
parents and the local community, in addition to church and MOE
representatives; (c) that responsibility for day-to-day school management
would rest with the headteacher (or headmaster/headmistress in the case of
secondary) rather than with separately-appointed school managers. In support
of these measures, the MOE would, as already discussed, strengthen its
presence at the district level to assist in monitoring school compliance with
the new legal measures. It would also institute a comprehensive program for
supporting the community/parent role in educational management, decentralize
some teacher administration functions to the district level, institute well-
designed training programs in school management (including simple financial
accounting) for existing headteachers and establish technical panels for the
selection of new headteachers. Enhancement by Government of the revised
education order is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Conditions of Service For Teachers and Teacher TrtininR
3.34        The planned changes in teacher management and local school
management (para. 3.33) will constitute a first step in addrsssing the issues
of managerial support for teachers discussed in para. 2.20. In addition,
Government is strongly committed to: (a) improving teacher compensation and
career development prospects; (b) increasing availability of teachers; and (c)
increasing professional support through strengthening both pre-service
training and in-service guidance and training.
3.35        Compensation,  With regard to compensation, highest priority will
be given to addressing the issue of teacher salary levels. By the start of
the Fifth Plan, Government announced substantial pay increases for teachers,
with the aim of achieving near-equivalence (if not parity) with remuneration
levels available in the civil service. This implies a substantial increase in
the Government's total recurrent allocation to education as indicated in the
discussion of the public expenditure plan. In addition, a career structure,
based partially on seniority and partially on merit, has been adopted to allow
career progression without the acquisition of further formal educational
qualifications. The new career structure involves the creation of senior
teacher and resource teacher posts at primary levels and recognition for
heading departments (e.g., the science or social studies departments) at
secondary level. In addition, as previously noted (para. 2.20) steps had
already been taken to include all teachers (including married women, who were



- 37 -
previously excluded) in a pension scheme similar to the civil servants'
scheme. A satisfactory teaching service salary and career structure was
presented to the Bank prior to credit negotiations.
3.36        Teacher Availability.  Measures to address the issue of teacher
availability during the Fifth Plan ara closely linked to compensation and
training issues (also of course to issues of recurrent resource availability).
For example, it is expected that given the improved remuneration packages,
teachers would be less anxious to leave the education system for jobs in other
sectors or teaching positions outside the country's borders -- thereby
reducing attrition and its severe impact on the teacher shortage. In
addition, it is planned to expand enrollments (from about 600 to 1100) at NTTC
in both the pre-service and in-service teacher qualification programs and to
devote a large proportion of expected increases in education recurrent
allocations to creation of additional primary teacher posts. To relieve the
acute shortages of teachers in the remote highlands areas of the countries,
monthly hardship allowances would be increased from a flat M 15 to a
proportion of annual salaries, and housing would be provided for many of these
teachers using community participation approaches for construction. During
the Plan period, the MOE would provide building materials for a total of about
150 houses, all to be constructed in mountain areas.
3.37        Teacher TraininR.  The planned increases in teacher training
enrollments will require expansion and rehabilitation of classrooms and
student hostels at NTTC, given the inadequacy of existing facilities even for
the existing nunmbers of students. Therefore, physical construction at NTTC
has been included in the MOE plan. Moreover, a number of activities are
included to improve the quality of trainin& at NTTC, which offers both pre-
service courses for primary and secondary teachers and an in-service course
(Lesotho Inservice Education for Teachers -- LIET) aimed at providing basic
teacher certification to unqualified primary school teachers. Upgrading of
these cources (aimed specifically at targeting courses better to primary
education) will be undertaken over the next five years through: establishing
separate departments for primary pre-service and LIET training -- a necessary
development given that teaching requirements for the two types of training are
substantially different; gradually upgrading entry requirements to the pre-
service primary program to ensure that most entering candidates have a COSC,
rather than JC -- allowing more time to be spent on issues of pedagogy versus
supplementation of basic academic skills; providing fellowships for further
training to staff of both the pre-service and LIET departments; and developing
special curriculum modules aimed at inculcating pedagogical skills necessary
for teaching the youngest children (Standards 1-3) and incorporating planned
MOE innovations in monitoring and evaluation, pupil assessment and curriculum
into the standard NTTC courses. As discussed in para. 3.14 refresher training
for employed qualified teachers would be coordinated by the proposed
Educational Management Service of the reorganized MOE and be undertaken in
accordance with an annual plan derived from identified needs in dissemination
of curriculum, assessment and other educational initiatives.



- 38 -
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJRCT
A. Prolect ObJectives and Su =aEX Description
4.1         The overall objective of the proposed project is to assist
Government in the implementation of its five-year actlon program, as lald out
in the letter of development policy and detailed matrix of specific objectives
and actions (Annex 2). Project support would focus on (a) supporting
investments aimed at increasing the quality, efficiency and relevance of
educational programs at all levels of the education and training system, with
particular attention to primary education, and (b) helping to address the key
management, financing and resource allocation, and staffing issues which
constrain overall sectoral performance. To the extent that the project is
expected to be parallel-financed by three of the external assistance agencies
most active in Lesotho's education sector (IDA, USAID and EC), it is expected
to cover about 70Z of the investment portion of the action program as well as
selected recurrent activities.
4.2         In suammary, taking into account likely contributions from other
donors, the project would support the following actlvities included in the
Government's five-year action plan and letter of development policy and
matrix:
(a)   In basic education (primary and secondary levels):
- construction of additional classroom and sanitary facilities
at primary level;
- furnishing of new and existing classrooms at primary level;
- activities related to curriculum development,
production/dissemination of instructional materials, and
improved assessment at both primary and secondary levels;
- refresher training for primary and secondary teachers;
- implementation of policies aimed at reducing repetition and
enrollment of under- and over-age students in primary and
rationalization of teacher grant allocations at secondary;
and
- recruitment of additional teachers, principally at primary
level.
(b)   In teacher trainings
- strengthening NTTC's institutional capacity and facilitating
expansion of teacher output; and
- upgrading standards in primary pre- and in-service teacher
training programs.
(c)   In TVE:
- standardization of craft curricula;
- introduction of evening classes at TVE institutions;
- strengthening of skills certification/trade testing; and
- policy studies.
(d)   At NUL:
- implementation of the subject system or modified course unit
system and related academic planning;



- 39 -
-   implementation of selected cost-containment measures in non-
academic areas;
-   staff development and research;
-   library computerization and stocking; and
-   improvements in physical planning and expansion of
laboratories for science teaching and research.
(e)   In the area of sectoral managements
-   technical assistance, incremental salary costs and other
resources necessary to effect reorganization of the central
HOE;
-   district offices, vehicles and equipment for decentralizing
MOE operations;
-   in-service training for teachers and management training for
headteachers and principals; and
-   systems for improving program monitoring and evaluation.
B. Detailed Features
4.3         Given the close linkage between the proposed project components
and the Government's Fifth Plan action program, described in-depth in Chapter
III, this section will focus mainly on the specific inputs to be provided
under the project for each activity, on the assumption that the rationale for
the activities and their linkage to identified sectoral issues (paras. 2.6-
2.20) has already been sufficiently established in the preceding Chapter. It
should be emphasized at the outset that the Government's letter of development
policy in education, together with the matrix of policy measures and key
actions to be implemented (Annex 2), are viewed as an essential part of the
proposed project, providing the framework within which the various project
components have been judged to be viable and sustainable. Progress in
implementing the actions included in the matrix will, therefore, receive
special attention throughout project implementation and project disbursements
could be suspended if the action program is judged to be unsatisfactorily
implemented during proposed joint Government/IDA/USAID project reviews in
March 1993 and September 1994, respectively. Given Government's strong
commitment to the action program, however, the risk is relatively low that
disruption of the project will become necessary. The proposed project would
have five components as presented in the summary description in Section A.
These are described in some detail in paras. 4.4-4.30 below.
Basic Education: Imuroving Quality and Efficiency (US$36.2 million)w1
4.4         This component would have six subcomponents as followst (a)
improving school physical facilities; (b) developing curricula and
instructional materials; (c) improving student assessment; (d) providing in-
service training for teachers; (e) recruiting additional teachers; and (f)
supporting policy measures aimed at efficiency improvements.
4.5         Phsical Facilities. (US$21.7 million)  The project will support
construction of additional classrooms, rehabilitation of existing classrooms
10/ Project costs cited in paras. 4.4-4.30 are base costs.



- 40 
and construction of sanitary facilities (mainly latrines) at primary schools
in accordance with the program laid out in Government's five-year plan.   A
total of 850 new classrooms and 1,760 latrines will be provided during the
project's life, and an additional 200 existing classrooms will be
rehabilitated. About 40? of the new classrooms will be provided in the form
of "shells", with local communities mobilized to provide materials and labor
for the walls. Through thus encouraging communuity participation in the
construction of the schools, the project aims to both reduce construction
costs and to facilitate the involvement of the surrounding community in school
development, and subsequently, maintenance. The remaining new classrooms will
be built entirely by private contractors as has been done in previous IDA-
assisted projects in Lesotho. Taking into account past neglect of the
mountain areas in school construction programs, classroom and associated
latrine construction will be undertaken in three phases, firstly focusing on
the most neglected highlands areas -- namely Quthing, Qacha's Nek, Mohale's
Hoek and 60? of Mafeteng districts; secondly covering Butha-Buthe, Leribe and
Mokhotlong; and thirdly covering Maseru, Berea, Thaba Tseka and the remaining
40? of Mafeteng district.   Although, ideally, Thaba Tseka, an extremely
mountainous region, should be included in the first phase, construction
supervision requirements (dependent on roads communications) dictate that it
be included in the third phase, with the lowlands areas. Finally, furniture
would be provided for all new classrooms and for up to 502 of existing
classrooms which are currently unfurnished or inadequately furnished.
4.6         To ensure tl,e smooth implementation of the physical facilities
component, staff of the MOE buildings unit created under the Fourth Education
Project (Cr-1512-LSO) would be maintained through support for 60 staffmonths
of architect's services, 60 staffmonths of the services of a contracts manager
and funds for local support staff including a quantity surveyor, procurement
officer and a draftsman. In addition, funds would be provided for detailed
surveys of classroom requirements in each district. The project would also
support the development and production of MOE-school agreements to be used in
ensuring the use and maintenence of facilities in accordance with Plan
objectives of relieving over-crowding in lower primary as a matter of
priority.
4.7         Curriculum and Instructiona& Materials DeveloDment. (US$1.1
million). In order to help strengthen the teaching-learning process at
primary level, the project would assist in three inter-linked areas previously
discussed in para. 3.11 above. These are: curriculum development and design
of a national timetable; development and dissemination of instructional
materials and teachers' guides; and evaluation of the agriculture and self-
reliance program. For the first of these objectives, the project would
provide about 24 staffmonths of the services of a curriculum specialist to
work closely with NCDC in drawing up revised policy guidelines and an
associated national primary school timetable, development of teachers' guides
in the interpretation of the new curriculum guidelines, and helping to
coordinate the trimming of individual subject syllabi in line with the time
available per subject. For this latter activity, the project would also
provide support for the work of teacher subject panels to develop detailed
syllabi and instructional materials in Sesotho, English, Mathematics, Science,
Agriculture, Social Studies, Health and Home Economics. In addition, the
project would assist in the quarterly production of the Sesotho supplementary
reader for Standards 1-3 pupils (para. 3.11), provision of replacement radios



- 41 -
for the on-going Radio Language Arts Programme, and support for the
d6velopment, production and distribution of pupils workbooks in each of the
core primary subjects. to assist in the distribution of these additional
materials, the School Supplies Unit will be provided with 3 vehicles and its
day-to-day management will be strengthened through the provision of short-term
technical assistance (8 staffmonths), computer eqjipment, and funds for
operating costs.
4.8         Finally, in order to determine the impact of the MOE/WFP program
for self-reliance agricultural activities on primary schooling (para. 3.12),
particularly time spent on acquiring basic literacy and numeracy skills, the
project would support an independent evaluation of the program, to be
undertaken by a team of consultants and MOE staff. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the evaluation would be undertaken no later than
March 31, 1993, that its findings would be reviewed Jointly with IDA, and that
agreed recommendations would be implemented no later than September 1994.
4.9         At secondary level, the project would assist in the revision and
streamlining of junior secondary syllabi for all subjects and the production
of associated teacher handbooks through provision of workshop costs and travel
and per diems for subject panels in nine subjects including, mathematics,
science, English, history, geography, development studies, religious studies,
agriculture and home economics. This project activity would complement
efforts already underway with assistance from the African Development Bank,
ODA, and the Irish Government to improve the teaching-learning process in
secondary schools and to upgrade selected facilities such as science
laboratories (para. 3.18). In addition, given the questions about the
effectiveness (and efficiency implications) of teaching vocational subjects in
secondary schools (para. 2.24) the project would provide funds for an in-depth
evaluation of Lesotho's diversified secondary education program, which has now
been in place for nearly ten years. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the evaluation would be undertaken no later than March 31, 1993,
that its findings would be reviewed Jointly with IDA, and that agreed
recommendations would be implemented no later than September 1994.
4.10        Student Assessment (US$1.9 million).  The project would support
improvements in student assessment at both the primary and secondary levels.
At each level, there would be two main foci: (a) strengthening the capacity of
teachers to systematically and fairly evaluate the learning achievements of
pupils on a continuous basis; and (b) strengthening the final examinations,
focusing especially on the PSLE and JC. To strengthen continuous assessment
at primary level, the project would first support a pilot test of the end-of-
standard sample tests and skills checklists for Standards 1-6 already
developed in the Fourth Plan period. Dissemination of the checklists and
training of teachers in their use would be done via District Resource Teachers
(DRTs). Based on an evaluation of the pilot, the tests would be modified and
disseminated to primary teachers, through a series of workshops to be
coordinated by the DRTs in all 70 sub-districts. Project funds would be
provided for the evaluation of the pilot, the modification and large-scale
production of the tests, and for the costs of the necessary workshops for
national implementation. The technical assistance to be provided under the
monitoring and evaluation component of the project (see para. 4.30) would
assist in the implementation of the activity. At secondary level, project
assistance in continuous assessment would be provided for the modification of



- 42 -
the quarterly tests in maths, science and English (para. 3.19) and for
training of secondary teachers in their use (see para. 4.12).
4.11        With regard to the PSLE and JC examinations, the project's main
aims are to further Government's objective of establishing a single
institutional focal point for examinations to enable efficient use of
personnel, equipment and other resources, help ensure that the exams reflect
the curricula adequately, and increase the general quality of the exams. To
these ends, the project would assist in effecting the phased transfer of the
PSLE examination to ECOL (which is already responsible for the JC and COSC
exams), through providing training for 48 markers and costs of examination
marking, support for clerical staff, materials and postage funds to assist in
distribution of the exams, and computer and printing equipment. Project funds
would also be used to refurbish ECOL's premises for use by PSLE staff and for
the provision of basic office furniture and equipment. At the same time, to
help improve ECOL's capacity for setting and marking examinations and
providing timely exams analysis and feedback to schools for both the JC and
eventually the PSLE, provision would be made for two long-term foreign
consultants (36 staff-months each) -- an examinations specialist and a
measurement specialist -- to provide on-the-job training to local staff in
their respective specialties. In addition, the project would cover the costs
of recruitment of four local staff, including a computer analyst/programmer,
data capture officer, a measurement assistant and a research assistant.
Finally, funds would be provided for foreign fellowships for four ECOL staff
to develop skills in disciplines related to examinations development and
measurement and for the costs of local training in computer use.
4.12        Professional Sup$ ort for Teachers. (US$2.3 million).  Linked to
the proposed improvements in curriculum, instructional materials and student
assessment, the project would help put in place a systematic in-service
training program for teachers, aimed at disseminating curriculum changes and
strengthening teacher capacity to effectively use instructional materials,
assessment aids and other items such as the teachers' handbooks. In addition,
in-service training would be used as a vehicle for increasing teacher
understanding of means of attacking the problem of repetition and techniques
for teaching and dealing with large classes in the lower standards. Such in-
service training would also help improve teacher morale by increasing their
professional self-confidence and reducing isolation from colleagues. At
primary level, it is anticipated that the proposed in-service training would
be implemented through expansion and strengthening of two existing teacher
networks, a school based district resource teacher network and a curriculum
dissemination network, each extending to sub-district level, and expected to
comprise 70 members each by the end of the first year of the Plan. The
proposed project would help make this in-service training program feasible by
providing for costs of in-service workshops at national, district and sub-
district levels, travel and per diem for participants, costs of space rental
and development and reproduction of training materials. In addition, project
funds would be provided for the initial training of, and allowances for, the
district resource teachers and the selected curriculum disseminators. At
secondary level, the project aims to complement the school-based professional
support to maths, science and English teachers being provided through an ODA-
assisted project (para. 3.18), by providing funds for training workshops for
teachers in secondary schools not reached under the school-based approach.
The training, which would cover pedagogical methods as well as guidance in



- 43 -
adoption of curricular and assessment innovations, would be coordinated by the
headquarters inspectorate under the proposed new MOE structure (Annex 4).
4.13        Efficiencl Improvements (US$0.3 million).  As indicated in para.
3.15 and in the Government's policy matrix (Annex 2), policies will be
introduced during the project period to reduce repetition and limit under- and
over-age enrollment in primary schools as a means of reinforcing other actions
being taken to improve quality and, hence, the internal efficiency of primary
education. Similarly, at secondary level, Government intends to enforce more
strictly its regulations governing opening and operation of schools (to
achieve a minimum, efficient size) and to allocate public resources for
teaching posts in accordance with a minimum studentateacher ratio of 25sl. In
support of these policy changes, the project would finance a public-awareness
campaign aimed at ensuring communities and schools are aware of the coming
changes, understand some of the reasons behind them and of alternative means
of acquiring basic literacy and numeracy skills (e.g., through distance
programs), and can prepare for them by sending children to school at the
prescribed age. The campaign would involve community meetings, mass media
(such as radio), as well as innovative use of travelling theater groups and
the like. Given the importance of the implementation of 'hese policy changes
to the long-run financial viability of basic education in Lesotho,
disbursement of funds for the construction of the second phase of classroom
construction is conditional on: (i) implementation of the policy regarding
exclusion from primary school of children under six years; and (ii) public
announcement of the policy changes related to primary enrollment by over-aged
pupils, limitations on repetition to two per primary cycle; and (iii)
allocation of government-financed secondary teaching posts strictly based on a
minimum student:teacher ratio of 25:1 and revision/enforcement of regulations
governing establishment of new secondary schools. Disbursement of funds for
the third phase of classroom construction is conditional on the implementation
of the policy measures announced in (ii) above, and the continued satisfactory
implementation of the measures included in (i) and (iii) above.
4.14        Recruitmeant of Teachers (US$8.7 million).  As discussed earlier
(para. 2.7), one of the most serious problems affecting primary education in
Lesotho is the high pupil:teacher ratio. In response, the project would
include funds for the recruitment of 1,300 additional primary teachers (260
per annum for each year of the Plan period), the minimum required to prevent
further deterioration of pupilsteacher ratios as the school-age population
grows over the medium-term. Of the total teachers recruited, about 910 or 70
percent would be allocated to the lower primary standards (1-3), where the
teacher shortage is currently most acute. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the Government would recruit the specified number of teachers
and allocate them between upper and lower primary as planned.
Teacher TrainiAn Raising Standards and Output (US$9.2 million)
4.15        Linked to the support for basic education, the project would
support a number of initiatives designed to upgrade the quality of training at
Lesotho's National Teacher Training College (NTTC) to ensure that future
teachers are provided with a firm grounding in both pedagogical methods and
technical knowledge in the subjects to be taught. In addition, in view of the
need to recruit substantial numbers of new teachers during the plan period



- 44 -
(para. 4.14) the project would help expand NTTC's training capacity from its
current enrollment of about 650 to about 1100 by the end of the plan period.
4.16        NTTC Institution Strengtheningt and Expandiug Output  (US$6.2
miilion). In line with Government's objective of granting autonomous 'tatus
to NTTC by the first year of the Fifth Plan period, the project would p.ovide
long- and short-term technical assistance (36 staff months in total) md the
services of a local financial controller to assist the newly-independent
college in establishing procedures and systems for administration, academic
planning and program development. Funds would also be provided for
construction, furnishing and equipping of necessary additional office space.
In addition, the project would assist in the strengthening of resource
services through provision of audio-visual and other pedagogical equipment and
materials, and strengthening of the library through establishment of an
improved catrloging system, provision of shelving, other essential equipment
and book conservation materials as well as funds for purchase of books and
journals. The services of a full-time librarian would also be covered through
the project. To enable expansion of NTTC enrollments, the project wou'd
provide additional physical facilities on the NTTC campus, including expanding
hostel accommodations, kitchen and dining facilities and classroom and faculty
office space. A multipurpose hail for large group activities would also be
included in the planned construction program.
4.17        Strengthening Primary Teacher Pre- and in-Service Training
Programs (US$3.1 million). Project support for the upgrading of the quality
of pre-service teacher training would concentrate on staff development support
through provision of overseas fellowships to lecturers currently employed at
NTTC. Over the project's life, this fellowships activity would include
provision of 5 overseas fellowships in education teaching at undergraduate
level and 5 fellowships for post-graduate studies at Masters' level. The in-
service distance teacher training program (LIET) -- under which unqualified
primary teachers are given basic teaching qualifications -- would also be
strengthened under the project through provision of: (a) the services of a
long term in-service training advisor (60 staffmonths) and of a training
materials development specialist (24 staffmonths); (b) funds for an evaluation
of the effectiveness of the existing program; (c) support for field
supervision -- including salary, travel and per diem costs for field
supervisors and teaching staff and 3 vehicles; (d) staff conferences; (e)
computing and teaching equipment, paper supplies and materials; and (f) funds
for the operation of the residential modules of the program.
Strengthening Technical and Vocational Education (US$2.9 million)
4.18        In the TVE area, the project's overall aims are threefold: (a) to
help improve the quality of formal, post-secondary pre-service training and
increase its cost effectiveness; (b) enhance the partnership between the MOE
and industry in the provision of technical and vocational training; and (c)
assist in the formulation of policies for the further development of TVE in
the future. The sub-components described below are intended to advance these
aims.
4.19               Enhancing Quality and Cost-Effectiveness (US$1.4 million).
In order to help improve quality and relevance of formal pre-service technical
training, the project would assist Government to develop and implement



- 45 _
standardized modular curricula in four crafts level courses at three TVE
institutions -- LP, and 2 church-owned schools, the Technical School of Leribe
and the Leloaleng Trade School in Quthing. To this end, the proje-t would
provide technical assistance (31 staffmonths) and support in the form of
workshop funds and supplies/materiala to the joint industry and MOE subject
panels already involved in curriculum design to complete the second and third
year curriculum modules for bricklaying, carpentry, auto mechanics and
electrical installation courses. It would also support training for staff at
the three TVE institutions in developing their own technical skills and in
teaching the new modular classes. This would be achieved through a
combination of regional fellowships (10 in all), funds for upgrading courses
to be organized by the MOE DTVT and funds for study tours to neighboring
countries. In addition, the project would support upgrading of the facilities
and equipment at each of the three institutions to ensure a uniform minimum
standard consistent with the requirements of the new curricula.
4.20        To help increase the cost-effectiveness of past and planned
investments in formal TVE facilities, the project would provide support for
the introduction of evening classes at existing TVE institutions and secondary
schools equipped with workshop facilities. Project funds would be provided
for the design of the evening classes, costs of payments to instructors, and
the initial costs for the design and production of training materials which
would subsequently be sold to students enrolling in the classes. Funds would
also be provided for an evaluation of the courses to ensure that they are of
adequate quality and financially sustainable in the long-term. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that evening courses would be
introduced in a minimum of 12 institutions with technical education facilities
by March 31, 1993.
4.21        Skills Certification/Trade-Testing (US$1.1 million).   To help
alleviate problems in trade-testing identified in para. 3.23 and promote a
more cost-effective alternative to formal pre-service training for the
development of skilled manpower, the proposed project would support
Government's strategy of establishing a single, purpose-built skills
certification/trade-testing center. Specifically, the project would help
develop a viable financial framework for the operation of the center, through
financing of a financial feasibility study as well as provide a new building
equipped with classrooms, testing workshops and administrative office space.
In addition, a limited amount of in'lustrial equipment would be provided for
the testing workshops. Funds would also be provided for the development of
new tests in a number of fields, linked in part to testing the skills of
Basotho workers returning from the RSA mines. Staffing for the center would
be provided by the Government and technical assistance would be provided by
the recently-approved IDA-assisted Lesothot Industry and Agro-industrial
Restructuring Project, with additional technical assistance (24 staffmonths)
to be provided under the present project. Regional fellowships and local
training courses would also be provided for local staff under the proposed
project. Completion of the feasibility study on the financial aspects of
operating the skills certification/trade-testing center is a condition of
diabursement of funds for the construction of the center.
4.22        Policy Development (US$0.3 million).  To assist Government in
exploring options for the further development of the TVE subsector, the
project would provide funds for the conduct of about five studies as follows:



- 46 -
(a) a rsview of the TVE act as it relates to in-service training and the role
of industry in manpower training; (b) a study of the options for increasing
the role of ,mployers in the provis.on of technical training, focusing on the
feasibility of introducing a training levy and/or an apprenticeship scheme;
(c) a small-scale tracer study to track career progress of post-secondary TVE
graduates; (d) a study of teacher and student attrition in TVE institutions;
and (e) a feasibility study to explore the need for a catering course at LP.
All of the studies would be carried out by the DTVT, with assistance from
local and foreign consultants. In addition to the support for the studies the
project would include funds for seminars to disseminate and discuss the
findings of the studies with MOE staff, industry representatives and other
concerned Government agencies.
National University of Lesothot Increasing Quality and Curtailing Costs
(US$2.7 million)
4.23        The project's support for NUL would be aimed at strengthening the
academic program at the university while simultaneously encouraging more
efficient use of resources in both teaching and, especially, non-teaching
areas. This support would be provided within the framework of Government
actions to improve NUL government through issuance of a revised University
Order and Statutes and establishment of a university development office,
responsible to the Vice-Chancellor (para. 3.27).
4.24        Quality Enhancement and Cost Containment (US$2.7 million).  One
focus of the project's support for quality improvements at NUL would be to
assist NUL's ongoing effort to modify its existing academic courses to allow
for greater coherence in students' programs of study. The main input provided
under the project for this activity would be technical assistance from an
experienced university educator/ administrator for a period of about 6
staffmonths. To help improve the capacity for teaching of practical skills in
the sciences, and taking into account the existing serious shortages of
laboratory space, the project would support expansion of the current science
laboratory facilities and provide necessary furniture and equipment. In
addition, funds would be provided for staff development (overseas training and
fellowships for about 5 staff per year) and for grants to faculty to undertake
independent research in-country. Library facilities would also be upgraded
through provision of additional books and journals and computerization of the
library system to improve book retrieval and tracking. The educational
resource center of the university would be strengthened through the provision
of teaching equipment.
4.25        With regard to curtailing overhead expenditures at NUL, the
proposed project would provide 12 staffmonths of technical assistance to
assist NUL in implementing cost-containment measures already identified (para.
3.26) and to identify further areas fot reduction in university non-academic
expenditures (including estimates of cost savings and essential investment
expenditures required to achieve them). In addition, funds would be provided
to better insulate living and teaching areas to reduce long-term energy
expenditures, to increase fire protection to a minimum acceptable standard and
to develop a comprehensive physical master plan to allow for better
utilization of existing buildings to accommodate identified space needs.
Completion of the study of university overheads, satisfactory implementation
of pre-identified cost-saving measures (para. 3.26) and introduction of



- 47 -
modifications to the student academic program are conditions of disbursement
for laboratory construction at the university.
Strengthening Sectoral Management (US$13.2 million)
4.26        In line with Government's objectives for the plan period (paras.
3.30-3.33) and within the framework of the new Education Order to be
promulgated prior to credit effectiveness, project support for sectoral
management would involves (a) assisting with central MOE reorganization; (b)
assisting with the decentralization of selected administrative and
inspectorate functions to district level; (c) helping to improve school level
management; and (d) improving monitoring and evaluation of the educational
program and plan implementation effort.
4.27        Central MOE Reorganization  (US$6.6 million).  With regard to the
central MOE reorganization, project support would be provided for technical
assistance costs associated with the establishment of a twinning arrangement
between MOE and a similar institution abroad. The proposed twinning
arrangement would involve about 160 staff-months of long- and short-term
technical assistance as follows: (a) short-term assistance to support general
administrative and management improvements including development of a
comprehensive handbook of job responsibilities and standard operating
procedures in English and Sesotho for dissemination to all MOE staff and on-
the-job training for MOE staff in the new procedures; (b) long-term support to
develo,V the field inspectorates, including the district MOE offices and
support for school-level management (paras. 4.28-4.29), and to assist in the
strengthening and decentralization of the new teaching services department;
and (c) short-term assistance in a range of specialized areas including
development of the further and higher education inspectorate and strengthening
of NCDC, IMRC and the support services section. Funds would also be included
under the twinning arrangement to facilitate staff exchanges, to enable MOE
staff to visit the twin institution with a view to working in close
cooperation with a suitable counterpart there. Apart from the twinning
arrangement, the project would also finance long-term technical assistance to
strengthen the MOE financial control and accounts section and provide office
equipment and materials for improving MOE operations. The consultant financial
advisor would also assist in the maintenance of project accounts and in
helping Government to comply with project auditing requirements. The
incremental salary costs associated with agreed new positions and the proposed
rationalization of grade structures would also be included under the project.
4.28        Decentralization (US$3.5 million).  To facilitate establishment of
the proposed regional and district MOE offices, the project would fund the
establishment of 10 district resource centers (one per district), including
construction of office space and provision of furniture, office equipment and
teaching-learning materials for use by district MOE staff. These teaching-
learning materials would be available for reference to the inspectorate
personnel as well as to resource teachers, curriculum disseminators, LDTC
field staff and headteachers for use in the conduct of teacher workshops and
provision of other forms of pedagogical guidance to teachers and schools. In
addition, funds would be provided for the purchase of vehicles and their
operation and maintenance costs. Staff salaries for additional district staff
(professional and support levels) would also be included under the project.



- 48 -
4.29        Local Level School Management  (US$1.2 million).  The project's
support for local level school management would be directed mainly to
headteacher training, given MOE's planned policy initiative (para. 3.33) of
transferring day-to-day school management to headteachers, in place of the
current arrangement of part-time proprietor-appointed managers. It would also
help prepare headteachers to provide adequate support to teRchers in a range
of administrative and professional areas. During the five years of the
project it is expected that about 80 percent of all headteachers would be
trained in issues of MOE policy and administrative arrangements as they affect
primary schools, people management and evaluation skills, basic financial
accounting to enable accurate maintenance of school records, and issues
relating to mobilizing community support for school projects, including the
constitution and functioning of school boards. The proposed training, which
would be undertaken during school breaks, would be coordinated by the MOE
inspectorate with assistance from the technical assistance proposed under the
twinning arrangement discussed in para. 4.27 above. In addition, the project
would finance a special program aimed at helping local communities to organize
functioning school boards and parent-teacher associations in at least 5
districts during the project period.
4.30        Monitoring and Evaluation  (US$1.9 million).  In line with the
Government's objectives for the plan period (paras. 3.28-3.29), the project
would support efforts to monitor both plan implementatior. and monitor/evaluate
student achievement at the primary level through establishment of an Education
Management Information System (EMIS). The EMIS, to be operated jointly by the
MOE Planning Unit and the evaluation sectioni of NCDC, will be aimed at linking
national policy priorities to data collection, interpretation and presentation
of documented policy options for decision-making. In support of the
establishment of the EMIS, the project would provide long-term technical
assistance (90 staffmonths) including a management information specialist and
an evaluation specialist to assist in the detailed design of the system and
its implementation, including clarifying functions of MOE units in
contributing to the system, training of central MOE and district staff and
teachers in the gathering and analysis of qualitative information on student
achievement, computerization and analysis of data, and setting of policy
research agendas. Funds would also be provided for actual conduct of staff
training, computer equipment and supplies, travel and per diems, and conduct
of special research and evaluation studies. With regard to plan monitoring,
the project, through provision of a long-term education planning advisor (60
staffmonths) to be based in the MOE Planning Unit, would assist ins (a) the
development of strategic annual work plans with specific objectives and
targets and systematization of mid-year and annual reviews; (b) the
establishment of task-based budgeting; and (c) help MOE units to identify
areas in which coordination with other HOE units may be necessary to plan and
implement work. Given the close linkage between the present project and
Government's Fifth Plan objectives, the advisor would also assist in the
monitoring and coordination of project activities. A detailed description of
the planned monitoring and evaluation activities is given in Annex 11.



- 49 -
V.  PROJECT COSTS, PINANCING AND DIMPLWENTATION
A. Project Costs
5.1              The total cost of the project is estimated at M 236.5
million or US$74.6 million equivalent, including local taxes and duties on
locally-procured goods and services (approximately US$3.4 million). items
imported directly for the project would be exempt from import duties and
taxes. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at
US$37.7 million or 51 percent of total project costs. Detailed costs are
presented in Annex 5 and are summarized ir Tables V.1 and V.2 below.
TABLE V.1: Prolect Cost Summary by Pro1ect Component
(US$ Million)i/
Tota I
x   Base
Locol     Foreign    Total   F.E. Coats
A. BASIC EDUCATION
1. Facilities                   7.5         14.2    21.7    a6       84
2. Currie A Instruc Matortals   0.8          0.2      1.1    21       2
3. Assessment                   0.7          1.8      1.9    66       8
4. Professional Support         1.9          0.4      2.8     18      4
5. Efficiency                   0.1          0.2      0.8     65      0
6. Teacher Recruitment          8.7           0       8.7      0     18
Sub-total                        1i7          16.1     811      41      u
B. TEACHER TRAINING
1. NTTC Strengthening/Output    2.8          8.9      6.2     e8     10
2. Pre-/In-service Training     2.2          0.9      8.1     29      5
Sub-total                          4.4         4T7      9.2     62      14
C. TECN A VOC EDUCATION
1. Quality A Cost Effectiveness   0.6       0.9       1.4    61       2
2. Skills Cert/Indust Trng      0.6          0.6      1.1    64       2
3. Policy Development           0.1         0.1       0.8     49      0
Sub-total                          1.2                  2.9     V7      i
D. NATIONAL UNIV. OF LESOTHO
1. Qwality A Cost Containmnt    0.5         2.2       2.7     82      4
E. SECTORAL MANAGEMENT
1. Reorganization of MOE        8.9          2.7      6.6    41      10
2. DecentralizatIon of MOE      1.2          2.8      8.6    66       5
8. Local Level School Mgmt      0.9          0.3      1.2    24       2
4. Monitoring A Evaluation      0.4          1.6      1.9    78       8
Sub-total                                      6. 8:§  18-.2    1       20
F. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY     0.4         0.5      0.9    58        1
Total BASELINE COSTS               82.7        82.2     64.9     SO    100
Physical Contingencies          1.4           .7    1477 I1§
Price Contingencies             2.8          2.7      6.6     49      9
Total PROJECT COSTS                86.9        87.7     74.6     51    115
3/ Numbers may not add up exactly due to rounding.



- 50 -
Table V.2:  Cost Sunnary by Sumry Account
(US$ Hillion)lI
U
Total
Local     Foreta.i   Total   F.E. Cots
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WRKS - PRIMY          6.2         9.8    1656     60    24
B. OTHER CIVIL WORKS           2.6         6.2     6.0    65    12
C. EqJIPMENT                    0          1.2     1.2   100       2
0. FUrNIRE                     0.6         5.0     5.6    90       9
E. MATERIALS/SUPPLIES/BKS      0.8         1.8     2 8    60       2
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Local Consultants        2.0           0      2.0     0      a
2. Expat. Consultants       1.2         4.9      6.2    80    10
Subtotal                       1T7         T77     7:1O           iira
0. VEHICLES                     0          0.8     0.8   100       0
H. STUDIES & RESEARCH          0.2         0.8     0.5    67       1
I. TRAININC A FELLOWSHIPS
1. In-Country Training      0.2         0.1     0.8    19       0
2. External Training          0         1.8      1.8   100      a
Subtotal                       0.!                 I fT   -W       '
J. MEETINGS/WORKSHOPS          8.0         0.7     B.7    16       6
K. PER DIEMS ONLY              1.0         0.2     1.2    18       2
L. PROJECT PREP. FACILITY      0.4         0.6     0.9    68       1
TOTAL INVESTMEIT COSTS           18.0        80.8    48.8    68    76
II  RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SAiRIES              18.9          0     18.9      0     21
B. OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
1. Building 6&M             0.6         0.7      1.2    60      2
2. Furniture/Equipment OAM   0.1        0.8     0.4    80       1
8. Vehicl- 1AM              0.1         0.2      0.8    70      0
Subtotal                         57?                         51      I
C. SUPPLIES/MATERIALS         0.0         0.1      0.1    90       0
O. SERVICES/RENTS              0.1          0      0.1      0      0
Total RECURRENT COSTS            14.7         1.8    16.0      a     25
Total BASELINE COSTS             82.7        82.2    64.9    sO   100
PFhyIla a ContI ne ncies       1          1.47 2T.  47            19
Price Contingencies            2.8         2.7     6.6    49       9
Total PROJECT COSTS              86.9        87.7    74.6    61   115
V/ Numbers my not add up exactly du, to rounding.
5.2             Basis of Cost Bstimates.  The project's base costs are in
March 1991 prices.  They were calculated in Maloti and then converted to
US$ at the prevailing exchange rate of M 2.6/US$l. Purchasing power parity
exchange rates were used for the project's implementation period. Civil
works costs are based on priced bills of quantities listed in recent
contracts for comparable facilities financed under Credit 1512-LSO and from
Ministry of Works contracts. The baseline school construction costs
average M 500 (US$184) per square meter for new primary school
construction. Community contributions (mainly the supply of aggregates and
erection of non-structural walls/partitions) to primarf school construction
constitute about 15 percent of the cost of a complete, private contractor-
built classroom. Classroom repairs are estimated, on the average, at half
the cost of new facilities. A local cost adjustment factor has been



- 51 -
applied to construction cost 's';imatas _or each district, taking into
account variations in building cists routlng from the unavailability of
most (about 90 percent) building material vxcept aggregates) and skilled
labor in remote areas. The local cost adjustment is based on recent
contracts awarded after tenders for similar buildings in each region.
Construction costs for the other building types (NTTC, DRCs and NUL) are
estimated at M1,200-1,500 (US$401-551) per square meter. Site development
costs are estimated at 15 percent of building costs. The supervision costs
of primary school construction are estimated at about 6 percent of
construction costs. Fees for architectural and engineering services for
buildings other than primary schools are estimated at 10 percent of civil
works costs (building and site development). Classroom furniture costs are
based on current, priced furniture lists compiled by the MOE. Other
furniture (for new facilities at NTTC and NUL and DRCs) is estimated at
about 10 percent of construction cost. Equipment cost estimates were based
on existing equipment lists and specifications for about SO percent of the
items to be procured. For the remainder of the components, equipment costs
were based on appraisal mission estimates. Technical assistance and
fellowships costs have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for
comparable activities under Credit 1512-LSO. The staffmonth costs of
specialists include housing, relocation costs, salaries, subsistence,
office services, fees, overheads and recruitment costs. Costs for per
diems, workshops and travel are based on standard Government allowances and
mission estimates.
5.3            Contingency Allowances. Project costs include contingency
allowances for unforeseen physical additions (US$4.1 million or 6 percent
of base cost), equal to: (a) 10 percent of the estimated costs of civil
works, furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies and materials, professional
architectural/engineering fees; (b) 5 percent of the costs of technical
assistance, training, studies, and fellowships. No physical contingencies
have been provided for local staff salaries. Price contingencies between
negotiations (May 1991) and the end of project implementation are estimated
at US$5.6 million equivalent, or 9 percent of base cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 15 percent of the base cost.
Annual rates of price increases have been applied to both local and foreign
costs at the rates shown in Table V.3 below.
Table V.3: Price Contingencies by Government Fiscal Year
1991/92 1992/93 1993/94 1994/95 1995/96
Local         13.3    12.6    12.8    13.5    13.5
Foreign        3.4      3.4      3.4      3.4     3.4
5.4            Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component
was estimated as follows: (a) construction and refurbishment of primary
school facilities, building operation and maintenance - 60 percent; (b)
construction and refurbishment of other facilities - 65 percent; (c)
furniture, materials and supplies - 90 percent; (d) equipment, vehicles,
overseas study trips and fellowships - 100 percent; (e) studies, foreign
technical assistance, vehicle operation and raintenance - 80 percent; (f)



- 52 -
local trips, rent, local staff salaries, per tiem - 0 percent. These
percentages have been determined by: (a) estimating the direct and indirect
foreign exchange component of civil works; and, (b) assuming that all
equipment and about 90 percent of furniture would be imported. Including
contingencies, the resulting foreign exchange component is estimated at US$
37.7 million, or about 51 percent of total costs.
5.5            Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project additional
recurrent costs for MOE would be generated by the provision of local
salaries, operation and maintenance costs for buildings, equipment and
vehicles, as well as supplies/materials and services/rents. The total
additional recurrent (base) costs generated by these items would be about
US$17.9 million, of which US$2.3 million is for building, equipment and
vehicle maintenance and US$15.3 million for additional salaries. The
annual recurrent costs generated directly by the project would be M 21.1
million or US$5.6 million, a level that is affordable, given Government's
plan to increase real recurrent resources to the education sector and
increase the share of the sector in the total recurrent budget (paras. 3.5-
3.6 and Annex 3). The estimated end-project annual incremental recurrent
costs would amount to about 92 of the projected education recurrent budget
for 1995/96.
B. Project Financing
5.6            Of the total project costs of US$74.6 million, the
Government of Lesotho would finance US$20.3 million (including US$3.4
million in taxes and US$1.5 million to be provided by local communities in
the form of building materials and labor), US$25.2 million would be
provided by the proposed IDA credit, and US$29.1 million by parallel-
financiers on grant terms. USAID would provide US$24.9 million and EC
would provide US$4.2 million equivalent. Executioa of the USAID Grant
Agreement between the Government and USAID is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
5.8            Therefore, IDA and the parallel financing agencies waould
finance US$54.3 million or 73 percent of total project costs, covering the
total foreign exchange requirement and 55 percent of local costs. The
remaining 45 percent of local costs would be borne by Government and by the
local comuunities. Project financing arrangements are given in Table V.4.



- 53 -
Table V.4: Financing Plan
(US$ Million equivalent) 3/
LOCAL
IDA    USAID   EC   aOVT      CO. LOTAL
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  CIVIL WORKS - PRIMARY         11.7       0    4.0   2.8    0.7    18.7
B.  OTHER CIVIL WORKS              1.8     0.8      0   1.1       0      9.2
C.  EqUIPMENT                      0.7     0.7      0      0      0      1.4
D.  FURNITURE                      0.1     6.6      0      0      0      6.6
E.  MATERIALS/SUPPLIES/GKS         0.8     1.1      0      0      0      1.9
F.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           6.2     8.9    0.2      0      0      9.8
0. VEHICLES                        0.1     0.8      0      0      0      0.4
H.  STUDIES A RESEARCH             0.6       0      0      0      0      0.6
I.  TRAINING A FELLOWSHIPS         1.6     0.9      0      0      0      2.4
J.  MEETINGS/WORKSHOPS             1.8     2.8      0      0      0      4.1
K. PER DIEMS                         0     1.8      0      0      0      1.8
L.  PROJECT PREP. FACILITY         0.9       0      0      0      0      0.9
1I. RECURRENT COSTS
A.  LOCAL SAARIES                    0     1.6      0  18.7       0    15.8
B.  OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
1. BuildIng O*U                  0       0      0   1.1    0.8       1.4
2. Furniture/Equipmnt OWM        0       0      0      0    0.6      0.6
8. Vehicle OhM                   0       0      0   0.8       0      0.8
C.  SUPPLIES/MATERIALS               0       0      0   0.1       0      0.1
D.  SERVICES/RENTS                   0       0      0   0.2       0      0.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                 26.2    24.9    4.2  18.8    1.5    74.6
pj Include. physical and price contingencies.
C. Management and Implementation
5.9             Prolect Management.  The overall responsibility for project
management would rest with the MOE, whose technical departments and
affiliated institutions would play the lead roles in implementation of
project sub-components falling under their area(s) of responsibility.
However, the responsibility for monitoring and coordination of project
implementation would rest with the Director of the HOE Planning Unit, which
under the reorganized ministry structure would be directly responsible to
the Principal Secretary, MOE. The Planning Unit would be the main conduit
through which technical departments/institutionL' would liaise with central
Government agencies (e.g., the Ministry of Finance and Planning and the
Central Bank of Lesotho) and the World Bank. Within the Planning Unit, one
of the planning officers (supported by the consultant Planning Advisor --
para. 4.30) would be designated Project Coordinator and have the
responsibility of following up on all project matters on a day-to-day basis
and drawing the attention of the Director, Planning (or where appropriate,
the Principal Secretary) to policy matters or other project issues
requiring special attention. S/He will meet regularly with the
implementing agencies/departments, monitor progress, and prepare reports as
required by the Government and the World Bank. S/He would also facilitate
coordination between the technical departments/institutions and MOE support
service units concerned with project activities. These would include: (a)
the office of the Buildings Officer which would provide support in the
areas of construction contract management and supervision of consultant
architects/engineers; (b) the office of the Procurement Officer which would



- 54 -
provide assistance to technical departments in the procurement and in-
country transportation of furniture, equipment, materials and vehicles, in
the contracting of local and foreign consaltants and in the administration
of fellowships; and (c) the office of the Financial Controller, within
which an accountant would be appointed to assist in handling all project
financial matters, including maintenance of project accounts and
preparation of withdrawal applications. A project launch workshop would be
held early in the project implementation period to define in detail the
responsibilities of the various MOE units and other institutions involved.
5.10           Present Status of Preparation.  The project was prepared by
the MOE, led by the Planning Unit with the occaslonal assistance of
consultants supported through an IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF 599-
LSO). At appraisal, a list of preparatory activlties which need to be
finalized was drawn up. This list includes preparation of:
(a)   prequalification, bidding and contractual documents for
building construction and architectural/engineering
consultant services;
(b)   bidding and contractual documents for procurement of
equipment, furniture and other materials;
(c)   detailed architectural briefs for the NTTC, NUL and DRC
buildings;
(d)   final equipment llsts and specifications;
se)   acquisition of building sites for the 10 DRCs, site surveys
and preparation of preliminary architectural plans for these
centers; and
(f)   preparation of detailed job descriptions and schemes of
service for the MOE reorganization.
These activities, in addition to other start-up activities are being
financed under a second tranche of the PPF approved by IDA in connection
with the proposed project.
5.11     The project is in a state of preparation that would permit timely
implementation because: (a) the process of tendering and awarding of
contracts and for civil works and equipment procurement were agreed with
the Ministries of Finance, Works and Education at appraisal; (b) standard
equipment and furniture lists and bid specifications have been completed;
(c) 80 percent of the technical assistance package has been fully defined
and, draft terms of reference are under preparation or already prepared;
and (d) satisfactory standard designs for primary schools are ready, and
the list of primary schools comprising phase 1 of the construction program
are being finalized.
5.12     Proiect Implementation Schedule.  Implementation is expected to
take about flve years, starting in mid-September, 1991. The project would
be completed by September 30, 1996 and it would be closed by March 31,



- 55 -
1997. An implementation schedule showing the timing of activities during
the implementation period is given in Annex 7.
5.13     Prolect Implementation Review and Project Kwaluation.  MOE would
be responsible for the preparation of progress reports on project
activities on a six-monthly basis. These semi-annual reports would be
prepared by the MOE Planning Unit, based on inputs from other MOE
departments and institutions concerned with the project. The reports would
be submitted to the Bank by the MOE and discussed during project
supervision missions, a proposed schedule for which is presented at Annex
9. In addition to regular semi-annual reviews, it is planned that two,
more comprehensive, reviews would be undertaken jointly by the Government,
IDA and USAID to monitor progress in taking key actions included in the
Government's letter of sectoral development policy and policy matrix.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would conduct jointly with IDA, two project implementation reviews ir March
1993 and September 1994 respectively, in order to: (a) monitor progress in
achieving program/project objectives; (b) identify implementation issues
and proposed solutions; (c) promote exchange of ideas among staff involved
in program/prolect implementation; and (d) update program/project
timetables, cost estimates and budget requirements. Finally, a project
completion report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
project's completion date.
D.Procurement
5.14     Procurement.  The procurement arrangements for the project are
outlined below in Table V.5 and described in detail in the following
paragraphs. In general, procurement of works, goods and services financed
by USAID and EC under parallel financing arrangements, would be undertaken
in accordance with procedures prescribed by these agencies.



- 56 -
Table V.6S  Procurement Arrennsonts aI  i
(USi mlillion)
----------Procurement Meothod----
Projoet Element                           ICB          LCB         Prudent      Other S/     Total
Shopping                   Cost
I. Investment Costs
A. Clvil Works-Primary                      -           18.7         -            6.0         18.7
- )        (11.7)          - )       C-)          (11.7)
B. Other Clvil Works                        6.8          2.4         -            -            9.2
(1.4)       ( 0.4)       C-) (-)                   (1.8)
C. Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles           1.0         0.4          0.8          8.6          10.8
Materials, Supplies, Books               1 1.0)     ( 0.4)      ( 0.8)       t - )        ( 1.7)
D. Technlcl Assistance                     -            -           -            9.9          9.9
and Studil                             C-)          C-)         (-)          (5.8)        (5.8)
E. Training and Followships                              -           -            2.4          2.4
C-_ )        C-_ )      (C- )         ( 1.6)       (1.6)
F. Meeting/Workshops                                     -           -            4.1          4.1
t - )       (-~ )       ( - )         ( 1.8)       (1.8)
0. Per Diems                                             -           -            1.8          1.3
H. PPF                                                   -           -            0.9          0.9
C-_ )       (-_ )       (-_ )         ( 0.9)       (0.9)
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Local Salaries                                        - )         -           16.8        1.3
B. Operation and Maintenance                             -           -            2.2          2.2
(-_)        C-_)             - )      C-)          (-)
C. Supplies/Materlsl                                     -           -            0.1          0.1
C-_)        ( _)             - )          - )      (-)
D. Services/Rents                                        -           -            0.2          0.2
C-_)        ( -)        (-)           (-)          (-)
TOTAL                                       7.8         16.5         0.8         60.0         74.6
( 2.4)      (12.6)      ( 0.8)        (10.0)       (26.2)
*/ Includes US8 8.4 millon In local taxos and dutle
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed under
the IDA cr dit.
USAID and EC procurement using their own procuremnt methods, procurement
of consultants services, training and followships, and procurement of
workshop costs, otc. using standard Governm nt procedures.



- 57 -
5.15     Procurement of Civil Works.  Contracts for the construction and
rehabilitation of the physical facilities financed under the IDA credit
would be awarded in accordance with the following procedures:
(a)   International Competitive Biddin8 (ICBE would be applied for
all civil works contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 and
above, procured in accordance with the Bank's "Cuidelines
for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' (May,
1985). Domestic civil works contractors would receive a
preferential margin of 7.5 percent in bid evaluation over
competing bids from foreign bidders, following IDA
guidelines. Based on the proposed threshold value of
US$250,000, contracts to be procured through ICB methods are
expected to include all civil works at NTTC, NUL, and the
Skills Certification/Trade-Testing Center. It has been
agreed that Bank ICB guidelines would he followed for the
NTTC expansion, although portions of the funds for the
construction would be derived from the USAID grant.
(b)   Competitive Bidding Advertised Locally (LCB) would be
applied for civil works estimated to cost less than
US$250,000 equivalent. These are expected to include civil
works contracts for primary school classrooms and district
resource centers (DRCs), which would be scattered
geographically and spread out over time and thus unlikely to
be of interest to foreign bidders. Local LCB procedures
were reviewed during project appraisal and are acceptable to
IDA as they include local advertising, public bid opening,
allow for clarity in the evaluation and comparison of bids
and provide for awards to the lowest bidders. Moreover, it
was ascertained that a sufficient number of local
contractors would be interested in participating in the LCB
tenders to ensure adequate competition. As is usual, any
interested foreign bidders from IDA member countries would
not be precluded from participating in the tenders. It is
anticipated that about 25-27 contracts valued at about
US$130,000 per contract would be awarded annually for
primary classrooms. Contracts for the 10 DRCs would average
about US$200,000-230,000 per contract.
(c)   Prequalification of Civil Works Contractors.  Before tenders
are invited for each phase of the primary classroom
construction program, all contractors would be prequalified
to determine their experience, ability to provide staff,
labor, plant and equipment for the projects up for bids, and
their capacity to execute the works if awarded contracts.
Contractors would be limited to offer bids for contracts,
planned to be implemented concurrently, up to an estimated
aggregate value equivalent to the evaluated absorptive
capacity of the contractor at a particular construction
phase. This proposed pre-qualification of contractors is
intended to help avert problems encountered in previous
classroom construction programs, where individual
contractors sometimes bid simultaneously for several



- 58 -
projects and then had difficulty in executing the contracts
when the numbers of bids awarded to them exceeded their
implementation capacity.
5.16           Procurement of Goods.  To the extent possible, bid packages
for the procurement of equipment, vehicles, furniture and materials
required under the project would be grouped into homogenous packages in
quantities that would achieve economies of scale and timely and efficient
delivery (and installation). Procurement of goods would be undertaken as
followss
(a)   International Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance
with IDA Procurement Guidelines would be applied for bid
packages estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent.
In comparison of bids for goods to be procured through ICB,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15 percent, or the existing customs duty,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing
imports.
(b) Local Competitive Bidding procedures would be employed for
bid packages below US$100,000 but above US$40,000, with
foreign competitors represented locally eligible to bid.
(c)   Prudent Shopping procedures would be applied in the
procurement of goods estimated to cost below US$40,000
equivalent per package up to a total aggregate amount of
US$300,000 equivalent. Price quotations for the required
items would be obtained from at least three independeat
suppliers.
5.17     Other Procurement.  Consultants' services would be procured in
accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank on the
basis of the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency.* Other items, including
incremental recurrent cost items, travel/per diems, salary costs and
workshops/training would be procured using regular Government procedures.
5.18           IDA Review of Bid Packages and Contract Awards.  Bidding
packages for civil works and goods valued at over US$100,000 equivalent
would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement docxunentation,
resulting in a coverage of about 80 percent of the total estimated value of
such contracts. Smaller psckages would be subject to random post-award
review by IDA. Terms of reference, curricula vitae and draft contracts for
consultants would be reviewed by IDA prior to appointment of consultants.
S. Disbureemeats
5.19     Disbursements.  The proposed project would be disbursed over a
period of about five aud a half years and disbursements would be made in
accordance with Table V.6. The disbursement schedule reflects the
conditionality on disbursement. Disbursements from the proposed credit are
expected to take place on an average of about 6 months after incurring the



- 59 -
expenditure. A disbursement schedule comparing projected disbursements for
this project to the standard country profile is given in Annex 8. The
proposed disbursement schedule for the project is generally in line with
the actual disbursements for past projects in Lesotho. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by March 31, 1997.
Table V.C, ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF IDA 'REDIT
(USI millIon)
IDA         Percentage of Expenditure
Disbursement Catsaorv           Allocatlon   to be Financed
1: CivIl Works Prlimry
(a) Phase I                      8.6      86X of total expenditures
(b) Phase I                      8.9      6OX of total expenditure.
(c) Phase UII                    8.9      6SX of total expenditures
2: Civil Works University           0.4       100I of foreign expenditures and
60X of local expenditures
8: Civil Works Skills Cort. Center  0.4       100X of foreign expenditures and
6OX of local expenditures
4: Civil Works NTTC/District Centers    0.7   10X of total expenditure
6: Furnlture, Vehicles, Equipment   1.4       100X of total expenditure
materials, Supplies
6: Technical Assistonce, Training,  6.7       100E of total expenditures
Fe lowshipe, W.rkshops,
Meetings, Studies
7: Project Preparation Facility     0.9       100X of total expenditures
8: Unallocated                      1.8
TOTAL            26.2
5.20     All disbursements from the IDA credit account would be fully
documented except expenditures for (a) contracts, purchase orders for
goods and services or overseas training programs valued at less that
US$20,000 equivalent, (b) local training programs, and, (c) force
account and operating costs for which disbursements would be made
against certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Documentation would
be retained by hOE for review by Bank supervision missions and project
auditors.
5.21     Special Account.  To facilitate timely project implementation,
the Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. IDA would make an initial deposit, equivalent to
about US$ 1.4 million. This amount is expected to cover about four
months of eligible payments. The Special Account would be replenished
as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the account falls below
an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the amount of the Spetial
Account.   Withdrawal applications would be submitted monthly regardless
of the volume of business handled by the Special Account and would be
supported by full documentation except for items eligible for
disbursement on the basis of certified SOEs.



- 60 -
5.22     Accounts, Audits and Reporting.  The Government would maintain
separate accounts for the project. Project accounts, including the
Special Account, would be audited annually in accordance with the March
1982 Bank *Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank". Audit of SOEs would be included in the
annual audits, the reports for which would be furnished to IDA within
six months of the end of each Government fiscal year.   The Government
provided assurances to this effect during credit negotiations.
Although, over the past 2-3 years, Government has submitted audit
ieports to IDA in a timely manner for the Fourth Education Project
(Credit 1512-LSO), some problems have been apparent, mainly with regard
to the accounting and audit of SOEs. To help address these problems,
the project-financed financial advisor would, as part of his/her duties,
oversee project financial management (para. 4.27) and an accounting
officer wi-thin MOE would be specificLlly designated to maintain project
accounts. In addition, the project would include funds to contract a
specialized private firm to carry out the annual audits under the
supervision of the Auditor General. Terms of reference for these audits
would be finalized at credit negotiations.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1         Benefits.  By supporting the Government's program for
educational reform, the proposed project will enhance the cost-
effectiveness of Lesotho's education system, enhancing the quality of
education at all levels of the system (especially primary education) and
increasing the efficiency of resource _.se. By thus contributing to
increasing the education and skill levels of Lesotho's present and
future labor force, the project will, in the medium- to longer-term,
help to increase the productivity of Lesotho's domestic economy and
maintain or improve the competitiveness of Basotho labor in the regional
labor market (and consequently the possibility of continued high
remittances, on which Lesotho remains dependent). This, in turn, will
have significant impact on household incomes, thus helping to further
Government's poverty alleviation efforts. The project's support for
revision in education policy, management, staffing and resource
allocation patterns will also significantly strengthen sectoral capacity
for program implementation, thereby establishing a sound base for future
investments in the sector. Finally, by assisting Government to
articulate a comprehensive sectoral development plan, the project would
help achieve much-needed cooperation among the many donors active in
Lesotho's education sector.
6.2         Risks.  The principal risk of the proposed project is that,
with the coming of elections in 1992, political candidates may promise
further sectoral expansion, despite the need for and present
Governmental commitment to, consolidation and improving the internal
efficiency of the education system during the Fifth Plan period. The
project's support for a well-targeted publicity canmpaign would help to
reduce this risk, by increasing popular appreciation of efficiency
issues in education. A second risk is that Government, given its fiscal
austerity program, may not increase education's investment and,



- 61 -
especially, recurrent budgetary allocations enough to allow timely
implementation of the five-year reform package. This risk is reduced by
the strong support articulated in the DMP ESAP package and the
associated Government Policy Framework Paper for continued real growth
in education spending and by the Government's continued emphasis on the
education sector in public policy pronouncements and documents.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMHMNDATION
7.1             Prior to negotiations, the Government: (a) submitted to
IDA a draft letter of education sector development policy and attached
policy matrix (para. 3.2); (b) approved the MOE five-year sectoral
development plan (para. 3.2); (c) approved the proposed new MOE
structure (para. 3.31); and (d) approved a satisfactory teaching service
salary scale and career structure (para. 3.35).
7.2             The final version of the letter of education sector
development policy and matrix signed by the Minister of Finance on
behalf of the Government (para. 3.2) was received by IDA prior to Board
Presentation and is presented in Annex 2.
7.3             The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   enactment of the revised NUL Order and Statutes (para.
3.27);
(b)   enactment of the revised Education Order (para. 3.33)
and;
(c)   execution of the USAID Grant Agreement between the
Government and USAID (para. 5.6).
7.4             During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)    recurrent resource allocations to education would be
increased by 54.4 percent in real terms between 1990/91
and 1991/92 and by at least 4.0 percent in real terms
during each subsequent year of the Fifth Plan period
(para. 3.7);
(b)   an independent evaluation of the self-reliance
activities in primary schools would be undertaken no
later than March 31, 1993, that its findings would be
reviewed jointly with IDA, and that agreed
recommendations would be implemented no later than
September 30, 1994 (para. 4.8);
(c)   an 4ndependent evaluation of the diversified secondary
education program would be undertaken no later than
March 31, 1993, that its findings would be reviewed
jointly v-! IDA, and that agreed recommendation would



- 62 -
be implemented no later than September 30, 1994 (para.
4.9);
(d)   Government would recruit 1300 new primary teachers (260
per year during the Fifth Plan period) and allocate at
least 70 percent of the new teachers to the lower
primary grades (para. 4.14);
(e)    evening classes would be introduced in a minimum of
twelve institutions with technical education facilities
by March 31, 1993 (para. 4.20); and
(f)   Government would conduct, jointly with IDA, two project
implementation reviews in March 1993 and September 1994
respectively (para. 5.13).
7.5             The following are conditions of disbursement:
(a)   Disbursement of funds for the construction of the decond
phase of classroom construction would be conditional on:
(i) implementation of the policy regarding exclusion
from primary school of children under six years of age;
(ii) public announcement of the policy changes related
to primary enrollment by over-aged pupils, limitations
or. repetition to two per primary cycle; and (iii)
allocation of government-financed secondary teaching
posts strictly based on a minimum studentsteacher ratio
of 25:1 and revision/enforcement of regulations
governing establishment of new secondary schools.
Disbursement of funis for the third phase of classroom
construction would be conditional on the Implementation
of the policy measures announced in (ii) above, and the
continued satisfactory implementation of the measures
included in (i) and (iii) above (para. 4.13);
(b)    Completion of a feasibility study on the financial
aspects of operating the skills certification center
would be a condition of disbursement of funds for the
construction of the center (para. 4.21); and
(c)   Completion of a study of university overheads,
satisfactory implementation of agreed cost-containment
measures at NUL and introduction of modifications to the
student academic program would be conditions of
disbursement for laboratory construction at the
university (para. 4.25).
7.6             Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the
proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit in the
amount of SDR 18.9 million (US$25.2 million equivalent) on standard
terms to the Government of the Kingdom of Lesotho.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lesotho Education Enrollants by Level
Level                 1980            1985           1990
Primary                        244,838        314,003         351,652
Junior Secondary            19,327         29,071          36,420
Senior Secondary             4,028          6,352           8,644
Total Se.undary                 23,355         35,423          45,064
Teacher Training (NTTC)           ----            924             658
Technical Vocational             1,236          1,263           1,690
Tertiary (NUL)                     995          1,119           1,273
Source: Ministry of Edacation Planning Unit



LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Enrolnent in Primary Schools by Age, Grade and by Sex - Narch 1990
(vith Age Specific Enrolment Ratios)
6rade/Standard:                                                                                          Age Specific
Age (on 31     ;            2            3            4            5             6            7         All Standards    Enrolment Ratios:
Dec 1909) NIle Femia  hle Female  Nale Female  Kale Female  Nale Female Hale Female  Nale Female  Hale Feule  Total   Hale  Female
<6     2691 2951       -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -       -     -      -     -   2691   2951   5642       -        -
6      8885 9941    668  1166       -     -      -     -      -     -       -     -      :     -  9553  11107 20660    41.81    48.61
7      915 lo013   3N  5327    399   735         -     -      -     -      -      -      -     -  13828 16415  3Q303   62.41    74.1t
8      72   6823  6402 8243  1861  3639    254  586           -             -     -      -     -15181  19211  34992    73.2%    88.71
9      4260 3545  6543 10   3592 6084   1150  2228    134   299             -     -               15619  1935  35036    74.n1   91.6%
10     322? 2236  6096 5459  5096  7184   2343  4m          69s  1662     80   219       -     - 11532  2149S  39027    85.n1  104.2%
11     1470  846  3768 2617   4718 5350   3422 5869   1646  3954    488  1396           14   181  15656  20213  35869    78.8t  100.6t
12     128   07  2255  1376   3955  3369   3622 5076  2268  4123   1102  2810    336  1092  14266  18913 33179   14.0%    96.9%
13      417  150   134    663   3145  2246   401  4377   3164  5345   1825  4488    915  2690  1432  1999  34191    82.6%   109.1%
14     229    81    678   275   1861  933   268   2298   2700  3871   2290  4317   1504  3626  11941  15651  21592   68.81    88.4%                           3
15      121    28   394   120   1168   612   2089  1441   2104  206   2421  3953   1896  4530  10199  13490  24289   64.1%    79.1%                           ab
16      106    10    204    34    532  231   1224   643   1766  1305  191   22ff  1924  3405   7661  7873  15534    47.8%    48.0%
17        -    -    136    48    227    78   542   230   816   488   1203  1001   10  1876   4474   3721  8201    29.0%    23.5%
18        -    -       -     -   205    38    264   101    459   179   705   367   1099   821   2732   1512   4244    18.3t    9.8%
19        -    -       -     -        -   -142    41    152 39   23           0        4     199   1009    349 1358       6.9      2.3%
20        -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -    119    16    158   23   29  69  51 5    108   683    4.110    .1
'20        -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -    45    13    145    29    190       42   232        -        -
Total 39124 37431  32196 32539  26829 30549  21759 27535  16683 24687  12450 20968  10158 18724 159199 192433 351632
In Age
6rou   22828 22863 22166 22233  21554 21657 20993 21131  20448 20626  19872 20086  19269 19511 147130 148113 295243
Appropriate Age
for Std. 38.9143.5%   16.71 24.0%   8.6% 16.8%   5.5% 10.5%   3.4%  8.1%   2.5%  7.0t  1.O   5.6%  11.6%  11.1%  14.4%
Nbte: the 'In Age 6roup' is the population Who are of the appropriate age group for a standard. For example, the population of                       F
6-year-old males is estimted as 22828, of which 8983 are in Standard 1 (39.41).                                                               cr|
In some cases there are more students of a particular age group in school than the estimate naber of pers*ns uf that age
in the population. The estimates may be too low as they are based upon the 1976 census.
Ages for each standard were truncated at the high end; e.g., the age 16 for Standard I includes all those 16 and over.



LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Number of Primary Schools, Classrooms, Classes, Pupils, Teachers
and Pupil:Teacher Ratios by District - March 1990
Number of:                       Number of Pupils:       Number of Teachers:               Schools Percent
Class-                                                           Peroent   P:T    w/full w/Full
Disirict:    Schools rooms  Classes    Nale  Female   Total  OUial. UJnqutal. ToLal  thiqual.   Ratio  Lourse Cotrt-se
Butha-But.he      65     247      460   11784   13004   24868    349        86    435    19.8%    57.2        47   72.3%
teribe           150     604    1067   29220   31832   61052    919    144   1063    13.5%    57.4           120   80.0%
Berea            103     517      824   22792   24437   47229    683    151    834    18.1%    56.6           87   84.5%
Maseru           194     916    1366   34032   38082   72114   1116    228   1344    17.0%    53.7           147   75.8%
hafeteng         135      444     829   18508   23865   42373    673    134    807    16.6%    52.5          124   91.9%
Moliale's Hoek   140      318     662   14329   19380   33709    511    123    634    19.4%    53.2           98   70.0%
Qulhing          111      '56     444    9815   12715   22530    313        89    402    22.1%    56.0        58   52.3%
Oacha's Nek       83     .14      284    6042    7900   13942    214        33    247    13.4%    56.4        33   39.8%        VI
Mokbotlong        94      92      323    5763    9312   15075    256        60    316    19.0%    47.7        61   64.9%
Thaba-Tseks      ils     134      400    6914   11846   18760    299        71    370    19.2S    50.7        53   46.1%
Total        1190    3552    6659  159199  192453  351652   5333   1119   6452    17.3%    54.5           828   69.6%
Total 1989      1181    3539    6640  156990  191828  348818   5099   1176   6275    18.7%    55.6           814   68.9%
Change         0.8%    0.4%    0.3%    1.4%    0.3%    0.8%   4.6%  -4.8%   2.8%   -1.4%    -2.0%    1.7%   0.7%
Note: The number of classrooms does not include 840 church halls used for this purpose.



- 66 -
LESOTHO                                          ANNEX 1
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                                     Table 4
tldws in Primy Sduis by Oal fi ktim, So. ad by Distict -   h L0
Ulifid tr..v
O)lificatitns                                      LPMC        LPIC      LPL  ItII 1  lM   /EVI 11
ownt        WIC         PR          nl        NAtRIC        X        ItC III    II It/tIC ii   Galif id:
Distrid:      N     F    N      F    N      F     N      F     N     F     N    F      N     F    N      F     N     F tal
Wdrtiil       I    -      3    54    9    97    6        6     1    2      -    11     0    84     4    19     4   213   317
Lerilm        4  8 158 5  33 32 W                       4   1   4  24  92 B397    8  34 8          1                 3 8 2
o"            I  5   U    283  8    13  17   2 2  9                             91  24 44    6  21 I516  60i1
kIan 5            43       1         43  29    15   33    1    9    4    U7512                   13 56  IIIS  91l1%    i
Wiet"e        2   4  10 3    27197   14  21   2   1  31 16    4157   11  21 1U  520 664
MIale's lMA     1   -    13   18   19  143    6    11    1           -    I5   35    3    152    8    38   99   37   49
thlg          -     -    3    15    9   102   1          6     -     1    4    16        ID0       2    21    6 2 1   305
s N'sk    -         -    1      4    U    53       7    18    4      -    23   25   21   34    5         7    n2   1    213
W% lgu        -    -      4    8    Z2   80        3    10    -      1    7      7    31   52  S5 3           72  178  29
PIbt-T*o      -    2      6    6    A      70    5      6     1    2    31   13   42    6    11   14   1N    169   293
TOW         U14 62361231¶1   87 9 IN  13                                l 32 I   32I   n73  251 1019 4159 517
lotsl 9>      7   33      1351    811           123  209   17    39  216   528    112      3 I   V    34    M *M9  511
oC    I  100.1 81.91 3.1% 11.11 3.5  6.1 N-23.3%-19.1%-23.5%-17.  -9.7% -2.31  0.9%  7.1  -16.1% -29.1%  0.2%  1.1   1.3%
Tu2   h   Prl1m Iduls by G if kti^  S., ad y District -    h 199M
I l_ ified oimhn Mttn
CWAI          ict        SluS                                       All Teati:
Wl        1UN11        617i8      State         tIqlifid:   (Owl. # _I.)
Distt         N     F    N      F    N       F1F            E        FTod        N    F  Wlt
hd.tm  013 21    55 2  5   -   a a114 85                                              s n 431
Lerk         1 3 52   2         74   -    6       1      3  3      135 1 11       8!1  1053
km           11  60 1494   13                            -  2  1571   131 70384
mu           13 75    116   3   8   2   2  n  21241 232 U    13U4
1q           U    t7   21    78       -    5   1         -  33lO   143   177   631 8        7
Ibhk's H     i  1  33   20   63        -    5      -    5  31  106   13131  5              634
dbig          5    16    17  55        -    1      -     2    22   74     U    67   335 
W's i         5     2    7    16    -        2    1      1    i3   21    31      5   1Q   247
Iltlwy        7    16   ID   25       - 7          -     I    17 -19              27V    316
ubiasdia      6    14          31     3    5       1    -    21   56    77  145   22S  3VO
TOtl       9      1   16 613        9    47    6    14   25  95    121 4       51 54  640
Wo Fl91      0    194  11   669    12   51    2    11  25   9!5  11U, S        25 IV  03  6225
*Op       IPA 3  5.5   -U.% -8.4 -25.1k -7.3t2010.  27.3  9.6%  7.61  8.1k  1.51  3.1%  2.3t



- 67 -
ANNEX I
Table 5
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Primary Examination Results by District - 1990
Cidltes   1st Clam      ad lm          d lam     Pm: Flledi   Pm:
Distrid:   ItoS: $d.   w Rcm  lim  Pmi §mw brut Mu   bmw  Ftmet
UhNl-          10?    157  6.2    160  1.6        2  51.0   1419    43    73.9
ubr           40D    3    8.0    724  14.8   2M    92    36    1174   760
kum            10      3    9.5    me  14.4   107 93    220    O1            7.3
ROM           RC      942  5.1   128  9.8   152  6.9   522    101    83.8
rte           333      16  4.9    31 1S         15  6.5    264       95    72.8
Uhle's N1k    2444      9  10.6    16  16.6   I       1S .9  1V83    Sl   79.1
Om*g          16        6  5.4    195  12.1    8   52.8   11W        477   70.3
! Ne'slW       917     576 2        166  18.1   %561.9    191    1N    8I6.3
MAm            1071     1   3.4     98  9.2    645  1.2    779    2!1   72.7
ltsdm         130D    93   7.2    149  14S       678  5.2    90    3NJ   73.8
l          2M76   2514  9.3   417  15.3  1449  79  21M13    6143   77.5
WI U         2611   271  10.7       1111.6  13M19 sa.0  2155    S           82.3
Quip         4.%   -9.  -1.4%  -143  -3.1    4.01  0.11  -1.9t  32.3t  4.
ft vif fu     w'p to rp st vnap_ iss h gra
d_ds aW dwp b taet d1ffbIdty, rt poil ility.



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Nk*r of RquW  in krbty Scols by Ap, 6rab a b Sus -     1990
Gr*aeStitrd
A( (an 31    1       2        3         4        5        6         7      All StWid
Oec 19): Ible Finle Nate Feile Vale feale Kale Feule Ible Faule Hale Feile Vale femie Kale Fmle Total
4  352 38 - -                         -         - -328 
6 1454139 69 81 -----1523 141 033
7   31  3  31 443 51   - -- - - - -                                    30 315 793
0    327 X%1M 126   1W1  219  24  24    -                        -     34  499  3
9    2 1       151 174  41  703   73  91   9   7    -   -    -   - 434099 852
10 10  n8 72 o 20    30 M619  2 4333   18I    5   5    -   - 4710 428M
U     612 3'  16   W   1412 1331 542 M    106 21   12  31   8  1 42 317         7150
12    273 162 937   3 3121101   769 84  2D 43   42 17    5  2  391   36E   7
t3    1Q  SS 53 X7 2S        3 119 109  52711 I          275  29 138   g  32X1 6817
14      0  A 247 117   676 418   M  659 5273        464   87332 295            5382
15     2   13 10   47 4    24  ON 446  6176          323 96 01    633  2370    5010
1      15   5   55  5115  11  31   25 443  331   11           m6  1613 143366
7      --       31  11   n2A   1    83  222 154        242  2474   957  951 1I
18     --        -         -    6   9  31  U4  52  57  19 23  217  636   8  101  4
19          -   -         -   -   39  16  28  14  40  22  10  53  27  186 .312
-   3                                           5   35  12 6          1    128 34    162
20                                      -              7   3   3   6   43   9   52
Toal 111693  9  7i1  1S 6343  4672 44   2P 33  15235 23  1229 25 7 3    3WR3 76371
total 1 LM  11630 90W4 7130  0011   44 4539 2674 33  1!18 2327 1286 272 396  3186 1765
aOip      .1%44  -1.1 1.1%  1.3% 3.%  2.1 -0*.  8.  1.1%  3.1 0.1%  -4.4% 4.0%  0.7% -2.2% -1.4
Nie: tIme ats  "dis de si NrIN wm  In thesUm srnt d a the peviws ww.



- 69 -
ANNEX I
Table 7
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Drop-Out Rates in Primary Schools by Grade and by District - 1988
Both Sexes
Grade/Standard:
District:                 1        2         3        4         5        6         7
Putha-Buthe            10.9      2.3       8.5      6.6      11.4     10.0      10.4
Leribe                 12.0      5.3       5.3      7.9       8.2     10.8       6.1
gerea                   9.3      5.3       5.9      8.4      10.7     11.2       6.4
Maseru                 14.4      3.4       6.8      8.6       7.6      9.4       5.0
Nafeteng               16.6      9.0       6.6     11.5       9.5     10.3       8.3
Mohale's Hoek          14.1      4.9       7.9      7.6      12.2     15.1      10.2
Quthing                14.6      9.4       6.9     13.3      14.0     11.7       9.0
Qacha's Nek            17.2      8.1       7.8     10.7      14.9     10.1       1.1
Mokhotlong             16.7       7.2     10.3     11.5      10.5     13.2      14.6
lhaba-Tseka            16.0      7.3      11.1     11.3      11.4     20.2       8.3
Total                13.7      5.7       7.1      9.2      10.1     11.5       7.2
Total 1987             11.3      4.5       4.5      7.5       8.0     10.4       2.8
Change                2.4      1.2       2.6      1.7       2.1      1.1       4.5



- 70 -
ANNEX I
Table 8
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Eroli.mt in Sm    Sdvols by Ap h ad  a by Sex - r h 1990
Cr&WFom:
Ap (as of      A         S          C          0          E            All F :
1 Oec 19): Nile Feel   Ile Feli Kale feel. Nile. U   e1 Nile Er le  rle We  Wl
<12   612   1----                                              8 13 21
12       68  12    o      12 -   14    -        - - -     781    266
13      338  I    94  164       26        8   15    1    -  467  IN10
14      667 1rC  246 51t   5103   14  3             - --    978  248  366
15     all 210!  5   16   191 i 58   34 1l4    -   131i0 63n  63
16     1237 231  Ns 11    410  9         90 313     20   83 2m ?       O1119
1      116111 835 1583   517            414  6   131   257 30   584
1e8     933  m    ml  ui   749 1i      43   m 1  27  U4  31!3342 1 V
19      4    309   '7  414  511  622  314427   35 4U2  2 O 2W  453
20      267   91  391  is 15   )  314  32 263    3         57  18    121338
21       95 324   8    61  232 3    3         15U    219 154   91  447 1
2        37  19   76   15  1M5    106   C 6 161               56  233 
23       12   8    19    5   63   21   50  256           23  212   2   294
24        -    2    5    5   26    7        3t     41    213       57   161
24       4      0   8    6   115   243                  32   a      Qi  a1
Total 643  1V3  4784  TN  3614  512  m   2546 NG        0 16273  463
totall    5    !1i6 lS65  7616  lCU4  611  22gn 33  13  1531822  60U64
fht     9.12  6.% -3.5  -1.5% 401.  6.2%-1.61 0.6%  6.l  0.9%  2.20  3.1%  2.71



LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Number of Secondary Schools, Classrooms, Classes, Pupils, Teachers
and Pupil:leacher Ratios by District - Narclh 1990
-----------------------------------------------------------------__--____________-_-____-____-
Number of:                  Number of Pupils:    Number of Teachers:
Class-        --------------------------                         Percent  P:1
District:     Schools rooms Classes Nale Female Total Boarders Qual. Utinqual. Total  Unqual. Ratio
Butha-Buthe       14    102      96  1332   2117  3449      486    131      33    164    20.1   21.0
Leribe            35    234    222  3728   5286  9014    1164    319       97    416    23.3   21.7
Berea             20    130    137  2385   3350  5735       420    205      38    243    15.6   23.6
Naseru            39    380    370  5590   7550 13140    1511    587       63    650      9.7   20.2
Nafeteng          21    140    143  2069   3600  5669       857    213      39    252    15.5   22.5
Nohale's Hoek      IS   108    102  1250   2260  3510       384    152     27    179    15.1   19.6
Quthing           11      58     59   937   1340  22?7       38     l8     38    116    32.8   19.6
Qacha's Nek        6      31     33   498    660  1158      148     45     17      62    27.4   18.7
Nokhotlong         7      44     38   418    788  1206      345     50     21      71    29.6   17.0
lhaba-Tseka        7     27      31   423    720  1143      1-58    54      6      60    10.0   19.1
Total           175   1254   1231 19630  27671 46301    5511   1834    379   2213    17.1   20.9
Total 1989       171   1245   1219 18235  26829 45064    6196   1803    347   2150    16.1   21.0
Change          2.3%   0.7%   1.0%  2.2%   3.1%  2.7%  -11.1%   1.7%   9.2%   2.9%    1.0   -0.51
Note: Included in 4he teacher count are 485 expatriate teachers.
I0.-s



LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
leuJws ;i 5e*   Sdols by Oalif icat, District aWd by Naituity - laxh 190
D gru   11Ni~v         ST.C. oc Eo iablet       P.H. ad CAM0.S..            Iqlifisd          All leadrs
Stice    hbl-SciK       Scic      ItSti Scii   e Sciace    NM-Scimei    Icie    Nm-Scimce
Oistritd:    Loa  EqWt Lo1  E        = L1 W     LoI Eat Lacal EWpatLoa  Ei   Local              a  l EWp   Loal (W4   lotpl
&lwbht         7 11325   1 22   1   6   2   -   -   3   -   4   - 9    - 1   1D 64
lerib         14   3C   509         3 33    -       1N   2     -    I      -     -    5      -   I       2   315    J    419
DMa            8 25                   20  - 1    -  -  - 1-4                                   1    -10  Sl 9            41
bur    3C61 J2  so  2                                                                             986   - 11 6255   E    166 R51
tq            16  21    0  3          23    3    69    3    -       I     10    1      3     -    35    1  16    58   2A4
Obk's N1S      li   22   23    Z2   15    I    53        -     -     -    5      -     -    -    27      -   1M    65   179
zim9           4  131  8                     -  31 -                 -  1   -   2   1  35   -  94  22  6
'sm*           I           8     6     3     -    15     -     -     -     4     -     -        11      1      46 16       62
ftilb*q        -    8      5     3    12     -    17    -      1    -    4       -     1    -    2a      -   60    11   71
Uidb&-ld       -    6      3     7     7    -    18    -       3    -    10    -       -    -    6       -    47    13   60
low          92 213    33                     3161 7 61   11 6   2  65   1 25   5  353    4                        41J32    221
Mlal 1D       84   3     3D3  26    30       6    62   19    5       -   62    2    13    3   320   11  1639  511  215
OuFp        9.3  4.9  -3.1% -1.9%  7.2%  16.7n  9.Q -21.1%  2LSO   B   -2 A1  -98.0%  92.3 (6.n1  10.3 -6.6t  5.71  -5.1%  3.1%
lb z
I- X
0 



LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Facilities Available in Secondary Schools by District - March 1990
*iSuIcra                                                                   FACILlTIES
ITeacbiss                               1Itrto                                 Livion Qinarters                 Samiteties
Cl*uo-      ....              Off I am    Stora    Library   Assmbly   Staff    Do.1mg   Ktcb.a   Pit                     Flub
_ _ _ _ __ Ibl I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ House                                             ,       Hal l               L_._      T., OWL
Baths-Butb             102       14         6        20        1i         7          S          *2        a          2       10        12         4
Laret                  2"        s0                  44        29         9          4         189        8         7        19       23          9
Sese                  1U        is        11        24        17         6          6          69        1         4        1J       17          6
Uasrs                  176       a         81        64        64        2a        1i          226      1i         16       a1        19         26
Mafeteg                1Cl       19        11        27        20        10          6          90        a         6        1i      1i           a
Ro&l'sso  ek           11U       14        10        28        27         S          6         104        6         5        t0       13          6
QuhIe1 64                        11         4        1i         6         2          3          5         *         1        4        10          a
Qaha' ls*               t0        a         4                   7         a          1          23        8         2        5         5          I
Rotbottoag              46 5                a         1         9         2          1          J2        2         2         S        5          I
Thaba-Teosk             sO        4        2    .   6           5         2          1          20        1         1        1         6          1
Total                 1313       177      97         237       197        72         47        Su        42        46        IIC      133        6S
TO"al 1989            1245       173      g0         216       190       70          43        Soo       17        43       112       113        64
a.w                    6.911     2.311    7.83       9.73      1.71      2.91       9.3%       4.53    13.65       7.03     2.73    17.71        1.63
Rota: The nwbore for lIlbrary, assembly ball, doeritory, dining hail  titchen, pit latrino and flugh toilot retfr to ths count of scboole with wsub
facilities.  The rmoining items arm the total room within the district.
a- Z
m
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 



- 74 -
LESOTHO                                           ANNEX I
EDUCATION S~ECTOR DEVELOPMEN't                                      Table 12
Jumior Certif icate banation Ruilts by Ditt It - 1990
Form A Fom C Gro5s    ber            b      of Pa":            Percent Petent:
NW of       Iur'ue Errol Perent Sat the   r         1st   2r    Ird tmer I  Sit Fr A ' 1989
District:    1108  1940 Vsted XC Ea Failed writ Class Class Class Passed Passed  Intake  Pass
Iattl    1181   72538.6    0C  281                     3   139  74   16   3.2  18.3 45.2
Leribe       2912  1657  43.1   1368  Sf        9    6    9)2   136   m    S.8   26.5  64.0
6cma         2     1195  42.2    98  419        2    34   395   118 5t9   5 26.6  62.6
Nabvu         48   2476  39.4   2227   799    15   I00  1078   235  1428  64.1   35.0  68.3
lbfeteq      1951  1118  42.7   1x7   439       5    24   267    T    38  4.9  19.9  53.3
f,Ible's NA  1350   740  45.2    C2   26        3    282a5   61   3776.6 D27.9  69.0
Airq          t84106  44.8    379   122         2      8 l91    56   X? 61.8 29.2  75.2
Wistalk    425  228 4.4    189    3             -      9       129    16154  81.5  16.2  n.6
kIftl*        510   213  58.2    196 6          6  281   16            151  77.0 3.6 74.0
uTi-Isk       59  2417  57.4    196    1        1      3          3 12   6.8   22.2 68.3
Total     15941  90    43.0   762 3IN1            2142 3M    024 421    9.2 27.7  64.0
Total 1391    14012  I1S   44.5   7015  32$    92   443  321   673  t449  64.0   3.2
Osu         7.3  10.1%  -1.5    6.4  20.41 533-2l .3%  -03I  72.4  -1.  -4.8   -2.5
Note: M1y sclols cadiclts am imuhAd in this table.
kus fnt    ted is tbe lms e sb&ts fru fru A
to Fr C PIOted a aperwtap of Fw  A.
Ce prid      m   0        Catificate ESmmti bn   ts by Distris t - 191
Iit brwied  nst  NEp W          dAW                Pt                    F _w* pmul-
Fag   FarE    -             P.ilsdu              DOisn    Toa          e    of
Distrct:   (13)  1100)         r Paet sit Failed B.C.E.     I    2    3 Pame     sit tike
&ft4iU       443     ao   f    %3  21    16    16           I1        21    13  15.6   7.4
LvIb         OA5     3129   33.6 516  3             A9    12  39    e           2..2 614
u            52 3122 9  37.1 i  12 212   51       91 3.9 17.8
1U          ll9  1245   7    37.7 ins o 8    0             27    5 2       35 2.2  17.5
1i    627  40197 3L 414 7 22  39 56 4    53 12.8  &5
Mob's   l   34  99 28.0                        2 1U5  1isa  a 98  4.3 3U9
ob9          140    39      n   39.4  ID      1      09     -33             2119.6  11.1
lbdW  .kk   113       35    3 3.6   75    -          26     3 17  28        4   6.3  43.4
lMI           90 5go       1 3a 6.7    -   16   321  15 40 41.4 
5-Tidu i2    31 t    15  28.4  34    -               2D     -    4    ID    1412127.5
Total    5141    33199 1922  5    l  131 22              74W e  51  8 S  V27.8  17.1
W                       bbl 191@~~~~W    V  463    IZI   1411   30.2 312    9 L S31 me 13  30 55 R  97  31.   21.S
OwIh       13.1t   3.0: 3.5%   6.3  2.8329.3  12.% -34.8.91 0.2t -102   -4.1  4.4
Mbe th  Fam D  ht  ad Fh  E uniut fip. mi thls tile a  slIl t1Y lwpr
tim u   u    iml    table n  t  lu  ic   ms mduokm ro sh      sat ho eams.
lb fi         trw St. Rem  ae mt Wmluid in this thbIl.



LESGTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPH-IENT
Enrolment in lechnical/Vocational Schools by rourse, Year of Study and by Sex - 1989
Year of Studyt
Duration Minimum   1st Year       2nd Year       3rd Year         All Years
Course:         (Years): Entry:  Male Female  Male Female  Male Femave  Male Female  Total
Commercial Studies    1   PSLE        2    106      6     50      -      -      8    156    164
Home Eonomics          3   PSLE       -    268      -    207      -    197      -    672    672
Leather Work            3   PSLE    10       -      6      -      3      -    19              19
Bricklaying             3     JC   134       1   103       -    35        -   272       1    273
Carpentry & Joinery   3       JC    35       6    35       5      9       -    79      11     90
Dressmaking            2      JC      -     16      -      -      -      -      -      16     16
Fitting A Turning      3      JC    11       1      9      -    18        -    38       1     39
Motor Mechanics        3      JC    44       -    37       -    40       1   121        1    122
Panel Beating          3      JC    12       -      7      -      6      -    25        -     25
Tailoring              2      JC      -     15      -      -      -             -     15      15
Upholstery             2      JC     5       1      5      -      -      -    10        1     11
Architecture           3   COSC       4      8      3      2      2      1      9     11      20                  -
Bas4c 'lectronics      3   COSC       -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -     -
Civil Engineering       3   COSC    17       5    15       8    11       -    43      13      56
Electrical Engineer'g 3   COSC    16         1      8      2      7      4    31        7     38
Electrical Install'n  2   COSC    32         -    27       -      -            59       -     59
Nechanical Engineer'g 3   COSC        8      -      8      -    15       -    31        -     31
Plumbing               2   COSC    19        -    15       -      -      -    34        -     34
Mansory                              4       -      2      -      -      -      6       -      6
Total                          353    428   286    274   146    203   785    905   1690
Total 1988                      320    399   274    330   167    180   761    909   1670
Change                     10.3%   7.3%  4.4% -17.0%-12.6%  12.8%  3.2%  -0.4%   1.2%
Note: lhe minisum entry qualifications refer to the Primary School
Leaving Certificate, the Junior Certificate, and the                                 IL
Cambridge Overseas School Certificate.
I'_



- 76 -
ANNEX I
Table 14
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Enrolment at the National Teacher Training College
by Course, Sex and by Year of Study - 1989
Year of Study:
Name of    1st Year        2nd Year       3rd Year           All Years
Course:   Male Female   Male Female   Male Female   Male Female  Total
P.T*C.         11      94     15    109      35    119      61    322   383
A.P.T.C.        5      21      3      11      6      29     14      61      75
S.Tr.C.        14     51      13      37     25      40     52    128    180
S.T.T.C.       10       -      -       -     10       -     20       -      20
Total     40    166       31    157      76    188    147    511    658
Total 1988    52    233       54    226      60    240    166    699    865
Change  -23.1% -28.8% -42.6% -30.51  26.7% -21.7% -11.4% -26.9% -23.91



- 77 -
ANNEX 1
Table 15
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Full Time Students at the National University of Lesotho by Course.
Faculty, Sex and by Nationality - 1989/90
Basotho
-------------------------------------------------------------__------------
Certificates     First      Post Graduate      All
& Diplomas     Degrees        Courses       Courses
Faculty:      Male Female   Male Female   Male Female   Male Female  lotal
Education       51     27    54      66      3      6    108    99    207
FSS              6     14   120    173       -      -   126    187    313
Humanities      10    15    81    149        -      -    91   164    255
Law              -      -     35    39      10    13    45    52    97
Science          -      1    143     75      -      -    143     76   219
Total          67    57    433    502      13    19   513    578   1091
Non-Basotho
Certificates     First      Post Graduate      All
& Diplomas     Degrees        Courses       Courses
Faculty:      Male Female   Male Female   Male Female   Male Female  Total
Education        2      3      4      -      4      1     10      4     14
FSS              -      -     45     38      -      -     45    38    83
Humanities       -      -     15    20       -      -     15     20    35
Law              -      -     15      5      3      2     18      7    25
Science          -      -     1S    10       -      -     15     10    25
Total           2      3    94      73      7      3    103     79   182



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of Ii
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
u reply piasa quota:                                 CabW addiw PLANNOFF
Vaur tafuec                                            T.IOplw 3U619 Kitu
OFCE OF TE IWISTE
OF PLANNING, CO=WC
AZNL MANPOWER
DEVELOP14T
P.O. Box KS 60
MASERU 100
LESOTHO
CPO/C/4/014/12                                  4th June, 1991
Mr. Edward V.K. 3aycox
The World Dank
1818 II Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
LETT= GP ZDUCAYION D13UYUOINH POLXCT
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed Educ-ation
Sector Development Project, to inform the International
Development Association of the steps that the Government of
Lesotho has already taken, or is planning to take, in the context
of its Fifth Five Year Plan to improve the education system in
Lesotho.   Through  a  process of reforming, expanding  and
strengtheningj the   education system, the Government aims at
developing a more effective and equitable system, which will be
sustainable  within  available  resources.    it  is  also  the
Gvovrnment s intention to rationalise the re2ationship between
the Ministry of Education (HOE) and school proprietors, and to
ensure greater involvement of parents and the local community in
sichool management.
Proposed Rerorms 1991 - 1996
During the Fifth Five Year Plan period, the Government will
introduce a major education reform programme whose objectives,
actions and timetable are net out ini the attached policy matrix.
Some-I the major elements are as follows:-
2..  sector Financing and limeniu&e
It is the Government's intention that education recurrent
expenditure grow in real terms with a consequent incresais in
education's share of the recurrent budget. The MOE's racurrent
budget will be increased kV 54.4% in real terms between FY
1990/1991 and FY 1991/1992 (due in part to a m~ajor revision of
teacher salaries) and by 4% in real terms during each arubsequent
1



- 79 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 11
year of the Fifth Plan. The NOE will allocate at least 70% ot
the total increase in the NOE recurrent budget to primary
education and will continue to   maintain this allocation
throughout the plan period. Furthermore, it is Government's
intention to ensure that during the plan period there will be no
real increase in the NUL recurrent budget.
The Government intends to rationalise financial management of the
education budget. To achieve this, by September 1991, the HOE
will complete an evaluation of financial management capacity and
develop a plan for the introduction of cost-centre based
budgeting and thereafter immediately implement the cost-centred
budgeting system.
2.  Institutional DeelomntSchoo1 Managemnt
(a)   It is the intention of the Government to rationalise the
structure and management of the MOE. In this regard the NOE has
developed a plan for restructuring which has already been
approved by the Government. Phases 1 through 4 of the plan will
be implemented before March 1993 and the full restructuring
completed by September 1994.
(b)    In order to reduce the role of the MOE in the direct
provision of teacher training, the Government has decided to
grant autonomy to the National Teacher Training College (NTTC)
and the Lerotholi Polytechnic (LP).  By September 1991, the
government will draft the necessary legislation for this purpose,
and by March 1993, will have enacted the necessary legislation
and commenced implenentation.  In this context the MOE shall
improve the structure and organis&tion of the NTTC, including the
appointment of coordinators for the three new divisions:
Primary, Secondary and In-Service. The three new divisions will
be established and become operational by March 1993.
(c)   In order to rationalise the relationship between the MOE
and the school proprietors, it is the intention of the government
to revise the legal framework and to clearly define the role and
responsibilities of the MOE, school prcprietors and parents in
the provision of education. It is intended that the legislation,
which includes input from the proprietors, will be enacted before
September 1991. In order to iincrease the involvement of paitnts
and the cormnity, the MOE shall establish a plan for assisting
communities to form school committees as provided for in the
legislation.
(d)  The revised legislation will also provide for an improved
teaching service, with terms and conditions of service similar
to the rest of the civil service.    This will involve the
restructuring of the Teaching Service Commission and the Teaching
Service Drtartment.
2



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 11
3. Erimary Education
(a)   Quality Improvement
(i)  The MOE will improve the pupil: teacher ratio to 54:1, with
the ma4or emphasis on Standards 1-3, by creating 260 posts
annually for primary school teachers, of which 70% will be
allocated to lower primary.
(ii) The Government further intends to expand the network of
district resource teachers (DRT's) to 70, one per sub-district,
by July 1994. Before then the MOE shall identify and recruit
candidates for DRT training and will appoint a DRT Coordinator.
(iii) The Government will set national priorities for the primary
curriculum, establish the time available per subject in line with
the priorities and revise subject syllabi accordingly. The MOE
will develop   revised terms of reference for the National
Curriculum Committee (NCC) and an implemen'.ation schedule for
formulating the national timetable and revising syllabi.
Thereafter the national timetable will }e adopted and   the
revision of the syllabi commenced.
(iv) The MOE will improve the quality of pre - and in-service
training for primary teachers, develop a plan to vpgrade in-
service certification programmes and establish a Division of In-
Service Education.
(v)   The MOE has decided to transfer the administration of the
Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) from the Ministry to
the Examinations Council of Lesotho   (ECOL).  Consequently a
study to examine the financial and human resources implications
of the transfer will be carried out, and the transfer of some
administrative functions completed by March 1993. The complete
transfer will take place by September 1994.
(vi)   The MOE has decided to evaluete its education with
production programme and will complete the evaluation together
with the development of specific recommendations concerning the
future of the programme by December 1992.   Thereafter the
government  intends  to  implement  the  recommendations  in
consultation with IDA and USAID.
(b)  1fficiency
(i) To improve the efficiency of the primary education system
the MOE intends to eliminate the enrolment of under-ege pupils
in primary schools by Decenber 1992. Prior to that the MOE shall
conduct an information campaign to advise schools and parents of
the tighter enforcement of the rules on admission of children
under age six. The government shall enforce the restrictions
3



- 81 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 11
beginning in January 1992.
(ii)   The MOE will also restrict the admission of over-age
children into Standard 1 commencing July 1994. Before that time
an information campaign to inform parents and schools will be
carried out.
(iii) The MOE has decided to limit repetition rates in primary
schools to two repetitions per cycle, and will implement this
restriction by March 1993.
(c) Assessment
To improve school-based assessment of pupil achievement in
primary schools MOE will distribute and begin pil;' t-testing of
end-of-level test guidelines in Sesotho, English a.'. mathematics
in five sub-districts. Thereafter the pilot will be evaluated
and necessary modifications made.
4. Secondary Education
(a) Ouality Improvement
To improve learning in core subject areas, the government will
develop and implement a strategy for introducing continuous
assessment in science at the junior secondary level on a national
basis.    The system will then be extended to English and
mathematics at the junior secondary level.
(b) Efficiency
There has been a proliferation of small inefficient secondary
schools. To control their numbers, the Government intends to
enforce more strictly the existing regulations on the
establishment of new schools. The MOE will comp.i a a school
mapping exercise and, by March 1993, revise the regulations
governing establishment of new secondary schools.   The MOE
intends to raise the student:teacher ratio to 25:1, and will be
allocating teaching posts based strictly on the minimum
student:teacher ratio by March 1993.
5. Technical and Vocational Education (TVE1
(a) To lower the unit costs of TVE training tAe MOE will develop
plans to pilot test the introduction of evening classes at 12
institutions.
4



- 82 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 11
(b)  To upgrade industrial training and skills testing, the
Government will review the Technical and Vocational Training Act
to increase responsiveness to industrial needs.
(c) The Government will also try to generate increased revenue
for industrial training and establish a system of apprenticeship
training.
(d)  The Government intends to evaluate the effectiveness of
curriculum diversification at the secondary level by carrying out
an independent evaluation of the relevance and effectiveness of
the practical subjects offered ir secondary schools and
thereafter implement the recommendations.
6. University Education
(a)    Government  will  improve  the  academic  standards  in
undergraduate courses at the National University of Lesotho (NUL)
through the implementation of a modified academic programme in
the 1992/1993 academic year.
(b) To generate savings in the operating budget of NUL, the
Government will, by March 1993, reduce expenditure on research
institutes and non-teaching items by 10% through cost-saving
measures. By September 1994, expenditures will be reduced by 20%
from the 1990/91 level.
(c) A staffing plan for the NUL academic programme will involve
the  freezing of new recruitment during  1991/92.    A  12:1
student:academic staff ratio will be achieved by the 1992/93
academic year in all areas except science and agriculture, where
the ratio will be 10:1.
(d) To enhance NnUL governance and policy, the government will
revise the NUL Act and Statutes and, by March 1993, establish a
Development and Planning Office responsible to the Vice-
Chancellor.
7. Teacher
The Government will improve incentive allowances for teachers in
hardship areas and housing for teachers in mountain areas by
December 1992.   Steps to improve the career structure for
teachers are already in place.
8. Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) The MOE will improve its capacity to monitor and evaluate
the system by providing training for MOE person.,el and by
establishing an information system on primary education. In
5



- 83 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 11
addition, there is a need to provide training to the 1Pldruing
Unit and to the Inspectorate, to prepare training schemus fur
schools and to establish an accurate system of data collecti-n
antd reporting. The NOE will investigate specific aspects of
education to improve quality and formulate corrective measures
in accordance with the findings of the studies.
(b)   The MOE will also establish a system for guiding and
monitoring plan implementation and will improve its capacity for
annual planning and financial budgeting.
Yours Sincerely,
A. L. THOAHLANE
MINISTER OF FINANCE
6



DRAFT POLICY FRAWURGI FORt OE FIFTH FIVE-YER EDUCATION SECTOR PLAN
OSJEM1NES                        ACTIONS TD BE TAM  BY           ACTIONSl TO E TA. BY            ACTIONSl TO U TAMSSt
0/01                           3/03                            9/94
A. Education Sector
FAnanSinrnd Exnsnditurea
a. Education recurrent         Education recurrent budget       Education recurrent budget       Education recurrent budget
*xpenditureto grow In real     allocatIon to grow by at         * lIocation to grow by at        allocatlon to grow by at
terms, with a consequent        least 54.4X In roel terms       least 4X In real terms from      least 4X In real terse between
Inerese I n educatIon'a share   from 1990/91                    1991/92                          1992/93 and 1993/94 and by a
of the recurrent budget                                                                          furthor 41 in roeal terms
betwoen 1993/94 and 1994/9S
b  lncreas  share of           At lonet 760 of total            At least 70X of total            Continueto allocate at l*est
recurrent budget devoted to    Increase In MOE recurrent        Increase In MOE recurrent        76 of roeI recurrent budgetary
primry education }/            budget to be allocated to        budget to be allocated to        lncrasess to primry education
primry education                primary education
c. Limit recurrent budgetary   No roel Increases In NUL         No roel Inereasen in NUL         No real Incress" In NUL
alloaetions to NUL             recurront budget grant           recurrent budget grant           recurrent budget grant
d. Rationallofinancial        Completesevoluation of MOE       Implemnt coat-e-ntre based       lImpement cost-e ntre based
mnag_ment of the education     fInanecil mnagement capseity    budgeting                         budgeting
budget                         and develop plan for
Introductionof coat-centre
based budgeting                                                                                         0
B. Institu%tIonMl
Deve omantSchoo I  nacmnt
a. Rationalseathe structure   Formal approval of MOE            Complete Implemntationof         Complete lmplementationot
and mnagemntoof MOE            r-structuringplan by the         Stagos 1-4 of restructuring      Stages 6-7 of restructuring
government                      plan                             plan
b. Reduce MOE role In the      Dovelop logislationto grant      Enactment of legisltion
direct provision of training    autonomous status to LP and     and lmplemntation
NfTC
c. Improve the structure and   AppoInt Coordinators fr the      Thre diviaIons *stablished       Complete implementation
organisationof NTIC            throe new divisions (primary,    and operational
secondary and In-servi o0)
d. Revise legal framework      Governmntapproval of roevse    Implemntationof revised            Implemntationof revised
governing MOE-proprIetor       education logislation            logislation                      legIslan.on
partnership In th mnagumnt
of educstio. and the teaching
service
2/ Thlo would lncludeexpendituresnot only at primry but also for administrationand teacher support rolet" to
primary.



EUJTIVEl                          ACTINS TO SE TAUEN 9V           ACTIONS TO SE TAKEN BY           ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY
9/91                            3/93                            9/94
e. Increase lnvolwvmntof                                         EstS%IlIoh pIan for assiating     Satlsftctory implementation
parents and community In local                                   coImun:Ieasto form school         of the plan
school manaem nt                                                 co=mI ttee ass provided for In
the legislation
C. Imoeove_ntof Quality and
.Effltciency In Primary Education
a. Improv, pupil :tech*rratio Create 26S additional posts for  Create 200 additional posts for  Create 280 additional posts for
to 54sl with emphasis on SO     primry school teachore of        prImary school teachors durIng   primary school teachers in
l-3                             which 70X w.II be allocated      1992/93, of whIch 7?5 wIll be    1193/94 and a further 260 posts
to lower primary                 allocated to lower primary       in 1994/9S of which 761 will be
allocated to lower prImary
b. Expand network of 41atrict  Idontify and recrult candidates  Complete tr  i Ing and post on    MaiIntaIn network at 1 DRT per
reource teachers to 7           ftor DRT traInIng and appoInt    DRT per sub-district             sub-district
teachers (I per sub-dlotriet)   DRT (In-service) Coordinator
c. Set national prioritiestor Dev lop revised ToRs and           National timetablo adopted       Syllabi revled In all
primrycurriculum; establish  constitutionfor NCC and             and revision of *yllabl for      subjects and lmplemntation
time ovaltble per subject In   ImplemAtatlonechedul tfor         all subj ect underway             in schools underway In core
lIne with priorities; *nd       forulatingnational tlmetable                                      subjects
revIso subj ect yl lobI         and syllabi
accordingly                                                                                                                                0
d. Improve quality of pre- and Dev lop s pIan to upgrade         Upgrade existing LIET
ln-service training for prlmry  In-&ervIco certificatIon         cortificate to PTC equival-nce
school teachers                 programme and establish a        and establish strems for upper
divislon of In-servico ducation and lower primry in both pro-
and In-sev Ico p rogrammes
*. Tr&nsfer PSLE from MOE to   Develop ToRe for the study of    Cooplete transfer to ECOL of      Completion of transfer as
ECOL                            financial and human resource     packnsglir, printing,            recomendedby study
implicationsof transferot PSLE distributionand collection
to ECOL
f. EvaluatoEducationwith        Dv-lop ToRs f r an Independent  ComplteovaIat ion of the EWP   Implemnt rocommndatlons
Production (SW) programme       evaluatIon of the EWP programme  programs IncludIng development
of specific recoinndstions
concerning the future of the
programme
g. Eliminat enrolloantof    Inform schools and parents of        Enforco restrIation on           Enforce restetrIion on
under-age papils In primary    tigbter onto.cementof             enrollmntof under-age            enrollmentof under-age                |
achools                        rgulatlonare. non-enrollment    pupils baginnIngJan. 1192         pF pila                              * 
of pupils under gm, 6X
co
0
rh
U-



||al3JwI                          ACTIUNS To 35 TAKN By           ACTIS 10D O TAMI BY              ACTIS TO 3E TA3N by
S                                JO11                           3103                           9014
h. bstrlatsdosoahnof                                             Complete guldelInes for phasing  Coplete implms_tetionof
ever-ag pupils In primary                                        out over-ag pupilI ineludino    infor_ ttoncampanIon nd.
_chooI                                                           detailed design of information   begI aning Jan. 1904, enforce
campaign to alert schools and    rs  IetrIconeon enrollm_ntof
parents of new restrictions on   over--g pupils focus Ing on
the admiasIon to Std. 1 of       lowland oreas
children over age 6
1. Limit repetitton rate  In                                     Cowsleteguidelines for           Complote impleme_tationof
primty schools                                                   liiting rep tition to two per    Information cawpIgn ond
cyclo including detailed         begin onforce _ntof
desln of Informti.ncspsIgn   retrictionson repetition
new restrictions on repetition In lowland *reas
. Improve school-based                                           Distribute ond pilot toot         Compl-te workshops for DRT
assessmentof pupil echievmment                                   end-of-level uideldines in S      In continuous aserment
in primary school                                                sub-district and evoluatepilot using revised guidelInes, and
disseminate guideltnes to
schools
D   Igrc Gom.lftOugh  ,nd
a   Improvo learning in core   Develop strategy for Introducing ITpl"ent system of continuous   Impl  ement system of
subject areas                  continuous aosesooment In sceInc- assoows._t In sc Ince at junIor  continuous assossmnt In
on a national basis              secondnry l-velj develop         English and mathematico at
continuous assssmont tests for  Junior-sccondary level
EngtIoh and mothematIas
b. Control nub re of smll   Qo vernmntto begin strict           Complete school mapping exorcise Satisfactory implementation
ur aconolic scondary *nd high  enforcementof existing           and revIse regulatIon governing  of revised regulations
schools                        regulations on est*6lishmantoof  establiIshmnt of now school as
no- secondary and high schools   necessary
c. Raise student:teecherratio Alert secondery/highochools of  Be In al locating teachIng post.  ContInue allocating teaching
to 26s1                        government IntentIon to allocate strictly boasd on minimum        posts strictly based on
teaching posts according to      student:techr rratio             minimum student:stecher ratIo
minimum student: tacher rati o of
25:1
Edu;atftlog  and V"tnl n
a. Lowr unit costs of 1VE    Develop plans to pilot the         legin Imploentationof evoning  Evaluate the pilot and
training                       Introductionof evening clsse"s  classe                            deter Ino whether to continue       a
at LP, TSTC, LTS, Loribe and                                      evening clases
eight other Institutions                                                                              o



I ZU                              ACTIJONS TO 1E TAM  By          ACTIONS TO BE TII BT             ACTIONS T0 1 TMJ   SBY
9/n                             1190                             9/94
b. Rvi.wi    ToTchnic.l and   Engag a conuultnntto revIew    Reviso legislationand implemnt Continwe implemntation
Vocational Tr ining Act to     portIon. of the TVE Act relat'ng changes
incresse responsivennesto      to composition of TVE Board and
industry needs                 in-servicetraining
c. Generate Increased revenue Dve lop Tell for feasibIlIty      Complete study and begin          Continuo lmplementation
for Industrial training        study of an Industrial training  lmpl_entstionot recommendations
levy
d. EstabliIhsystemof           Dve lopToR to setudy the         Compl utstudy and begin           Continue lmpl_ntation
apprentieshiptraining          fessibiIlty of an apprenticesbip lmpl_entationof recoendatlons
scheme
o. Eveluste *ffectivennsof  Dve  lop ToRs for an Independent  Conduct Independ*ntovaIuatIonof Imploment plan
curricuiumdivereifictlonat  evaluatIon of the re levnce and  the relevvnce and effectIveness
secondary levl                 *ffectivenesof the practical   of the practical subjecto
subjects offered in secondary    currIeculu and complete pIan to
school                           implement recomeandations
F. Xnrov    t otof Iui t, and
Efficiencl amt MLL
a. Improve acad_le m tandards CompIete det Iled pIan for        Impleent dt   le d pIan for      Monitor and ref Ine progra_s
for underguate courses         Implm_ntationof subject ystem ascadoelc year 1992/93                                                        OD
or modified course unit system
b. Generstt sa Ings In         Agree with MOE/IDA on specific   Reduce expenditures on research  Reduce expenditureson
operating budget               cost-saving meaures on rosearch Institute* and non-teaching items research institutes and
I nstitutes and non-teaching Items by 16X from 1990/91 lovel *nd    non-teaching items by 20X
complete study on further        from 1990/91 level
cost-containmentin non-teaching
c. Staffing pIan for NUL       Froez new recruItmentdurIng    Achlve 12:1 *tudont:acad_Ic    MaiInt In student:staffratIon
academic progra                 caed   e year 1991/92 to 1990/91 staff ratio In ell areas (except at 1092/93 levels
level                           scelne and agriculture) and 16:1
in sciences by ocademlc yoer
1092/03
d. Enhance NML governmnt and Government approval of rev Ie d   Estabish NUL dvo lopment and
management copaeity            NUL order and statutes           planning offie rusponsiblo
dIrectly to the Vlce-Chancel lor
0. Conditionlof Service for TAneher                                                                                                  Q
a.  Improve Incentive          Identify schools In hardship     MeIntaIn real  val  of hardshIp  MIntaOin rel vlue of hardshp I     - 
IlIowsnces or teachers In      arnea and estabisoh hardship     allowance                        allowance                           ° t
hardshIp areas                 a  llowance for teachors In theo
schools
J



CUJECTIVES                        ACTIONS1TO BE TAKEN BY          ACTIONS 1BE TAKEN BY             ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY
9J91                            3/93                            9/94
b.  Provide housing for        Identity areas in which teacher  Implement "lf-help construction Continu, rl-helblp construction
teachers In ountaln areas     housing Is to be built using     of teacher housIng In identif Id
self-help constructionplan with areas
materIals to be provided
a.  Improve career-structure   AssIm late ox Iting teachers     Continue implementation           Continue Implementation
for teachers                   Into now career *tracture
H. Monitorlnaand Evaluation
a. Improv- MOE capacity for   SpecIfy traInIng needed for UOE  Provide training to Planning Unit Imp Ionnt traIning schomo.
monitorIng end evaluation      personnel to estabiseh           and Inspectorat.; prepare         Improved data reporting
Information system on prliary    training scheme for schools,     procedures used throughout
educatIon                        Improve data recording by        education system
Inspectors
b. EstabiIsh a speedy and      De' Ilo? a llot of basic education Complete Initial data coll ectlon Establish routine process for
accurate syst  of lnformatlon Indicatorsand a sample design   and report disseminationof          dat collectIon and reporting
on primeary education          for the informtlonsystem, In   information
collaborationwlth IIEP or
similor group
c.  Investigatespecific        Develop ToRs tor I study; e.g.   Complot the study and             Complot third study;
aspects of educat3on to Improve causes of drop-out and repetItiaon dissminate Information; develop formulate corrective measures          c
qualIty (1 studIen)                                             ToRs for, and complete, second   In accordancewith study
study (e.g. caMses of teacher    findinga
attrition)
d. Estab lIsha systm for       Dve lop guIdelInes for           Develop targeted annual plans and Continue to d*,  ap targeted
guiding and monitoring plan    preparation of annual            budgets;  prepare report for      annual plans and budgets.
lnformation                    lmplementationplan by each MOE  government/donor revIew on status Prepare report for
programms, to Include objectivo  of plan lmplementatlonby         governmnt/donorreview on
indicators, strategles and       programs                         status of plan lmpleeghtatlon
budget, and *stabisch procodures                                  by programm.
for performance review
e.  Improve MOE capacity for   Develop plan to upgrade MOE      Provide traIning to relevant MOE Provide further training to
annual planning and finaneial  planning, obj ctivebudgeting,   officials, Including *1  heads of *al  relovant MOE officlals
budgeting                      and perfo'sncerevlw and          programmes
engage f nancIal conou tant
lb 
ee
tD .



- 89 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lesotho Distribution of Fou!th Plan Capital Expenditure
Sy Educational Category. 1985186-1990191
(M 000)
Category                    Amount            Percent
Primary                                    19,664                15.5
Secondary                                  17,865                14.1
Teacher Training                           24,647                19.4
Technical Vocational                       10,710                 8.4
Tertiary (NUL)                             27,096                21.3
Administration                             27,129                2X.3.
Total                                     :27,111               100.0
Source: Ministry of Education Planning Unit
Lesotho Distribution of Fifth Plan Capital Expenditure
Ay Educ~ational Categtory. 1991192-1995 196
CM 000)
Category                    Amount            Percent
Primary                                   109,686                41.3
Secondary                                  32,208                12.1
Teacher Training                           29,763                11.2
Technical Vocational                       36,213                13.6
Tertiary (NUL)                              8,482                 3.2
Administration                             34,208                12.9
Other                                      15,082                 5.7
Total                                     265,642               100.0
Source: Ministry of Education Planning Unit



- 90 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
KINGDOM OF LESCTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Recurrent Ezpenditurc by Students - 1986187
Level                Amount         Students       Unit Cost
IM 000)                       (Maloti)
Primary                          16979.0        319128              53.2
Secondary                        12609.0         37343             337.7
Teacher Training                  1983.0          1109            1788.1
Technical Vocational               783.0          1435             545.6
University                        8865.0          1119            7922.3
Source: Ministry of Education
Recurrent Budaetary Targets for Fifth Plan Period (1991192-1995196)
I  90/91  J  91/92     92/93      93/94     94/95  1  95/96)
GNP                 2675.2    3083.5    3609       4276.5    5055.7      5921.1
GDP                 1546.4    1821.5    2199.7    2686.4    3246.5       3859.7
CPI Index            100       113.3      127.6     143.9      163.3      185.4
TotRecExp (nom)      443.4     570.4      639.4     734.8      862.9     1004.5
TotRecExp (real)    443.4      503.4      501.2     510.6      528.3      541.9
X real inc           ---        11.9        0.4       1.8        3.3        2.5
EdRecExp (nom)        72.6     127.0      148.7     174.6      205.9      243.1
EdRecExp (real)       72.6     112.1      116.6     121.3      126.1      131.1
X real inc         __-          54.4        4.0       4.0        4.0        4.0
EdRec/TotRec X        16.4      22.3       23.3      23.7       23.9       24.2



- 91 -
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 9
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVOPfENT PROJWCT
Proposed StructuLse and Operation of the Ministry of Education
A. THE CURRENT SITUATION
1.    The ministry lacks the practical capabilities for strategic
planning.
2.    The relationship between the ministry and the direct providers of
education must be clarified, paying special attention to the MOE's
partnership with school proprietors.
3.    There is a need to distance the planning, regulating and
monitoring functions of the ministry from the administration of
publicly-managed establishments.
4.    A decentralized system of inspection and administration is needed
for the effective monitoring of schools. This requires
strengthening the organization of ministry at regional and
district levels.
5.    Within the ministry, salary patterns are inconsistent.
6.    There is a need for clarity anit definition of the hierarchical
structure within the ministry to enable effective communication.
7.   Closer definition of individual responsibilities and tasks is
required at all ministry levels.
B. STRUCTURAL ISSUES
Senior Nana2ement
The need tu relieve the Principal Secretary from the
responsibility for operational concerns will be fulfillec by replacing
the incumbent second tier of deputy principal secretary and chief
education officer with a tier of four senior staff, designated as 'Chief
Education Officers (CEOs)*. One of these officers will be designated as
the *Deputy Principal Secretary", but all four would be appointed at
grade 17. Future projects will be managed within the new structure
under %he responsibility of the relevant head of service. The Principal
Secretary will also be assisted by a Strategic Planning Unit, managed by
a Director of Planning, which will be concerned with issues such as
provision and dissemination of statistics, liaison with aid agencies,
overall budgetary planning, research and monitoring of educational
effectiveness and generation of future policy opinions.



- 92-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 9
The four areas of responsibility will be as follows:
Educational Hanagement
The CEO, Educational Management (COH) will be responsible for the
organization and deployment of the inspectorate, management of all
schools and colleges, and in-service training and staff development.
(a) Inspectorate
The COM will be assisted by five chief inspectors - one each at the
Headquarters School Inspectorate and the Further and Higher Education
Inspectorate, and three at the Regional Circuit Inspectorates.
(1) HQ Inspectorate: A single chief inspector (HQ Division) will
combine the roles of the primary and secondary directors, who, as
the inspectorate expands, will be assisted by a deputy chief
inspector. Initially, the division wc-ild comprise eight subject
specialists as well as specialists to .;over areas such as early
childhood development and special educational needs.
(2) Further and Higher Education Inspectorate (FHEI): The .HEI
will distance itself from the management of the NTTC and the
Lesotho Polytechnic institutions. Further, the FHEI would, as
functional specialists, represent the ministry on discussions that
concern the development of teacher education, development of
higher education, etc.  The Technical and Vocational Department
would form the basis of the FHEI, though inconsistencies in salary
grading between the TVD and school services may need to be
eliminated. As the initial number of establishments under the
FHEI's responsibility will be very small, the TV-D professional
staff will suffice.
(3) Field Inspectoratet The field inspectorate w4.ll serve as a
mechanism for the inspection of primary and sect, lary schools and
non-formal education as well as for the discharge of
admin-istrative functions that are more efficiently undertaken at
the local level, ultimately leading to improved accountability.
it is essential that the training of officers is expedited so that
they can take on their administrative an4 audit functions. Each
district inspectorate will be managed by a Senior Education
Officer (SEO) reporting directly to the CEO, Educational
Management.
(b) In-Service Training and Staff Development
The COM will be supported by an in-service coordinator, operating from
the ministry but in close cooperation with district SEOs. The district
inspectorate will serve as the principal vehicle for the dissemination
of information about the curriculum, learning methods and other
educational concerns.



- 93 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 9
Curriculum Services
The CEO, Curriculum Services will oversee the direct management of
NCDC, IMRC and LDTC. This will entail being responsible for the design
of the national curriculum and individual syllabi, the commissioning and
design of teaching materials, the organization of distance learning and
liaison with examination bodies.
(a) NCDC
The NCDC would be responsible for syllabus design and the commissioning
of appropriate support m&terials. Curricular priorities, however, will
be determined by the National Curriculum Committee (NCC). NCC would
also provide a mechanism for improved discussions on educational matters
with interested parties, such as the churches. It is further planned
that the NCDC evaluation unit be strengthened. The testing unit would
be integrated into the ECOL and the production unit would be merged into
the IMR. The editorial team of the IMRC will move to the NCDC. Full-
time posts would be reduced with a budget being retained to finance
short-term secondments as necessary. Each curriculum area would have a
maximum of two permanent staff, with primary having priority both in
numbers and in salary terms.
(b) IDMC
The IMRC would be responsible for the commissioning and production of
materials. Upgrading the printing and other production facilities will
allow the IMRC to assume production of curriculum and other materials as
a self-financing unit. If the ministry insists on free distribution of
material, it would compensate the IMRC which in turn would advise the
ministry whenever it becomes financially impractical to have in-house
production. In such cases, IMRC would serve as the ministry's agent in
the establishment of printing contracts.
(c) LDTC
Though the LDTC is defined in terms of its client groups, there is
potential in expanding its scope for fu:rther application. Distance
learning, currently viewed in relation with adult education, can
contribute to other fields such as in-service training for teachers and
the dissemination of technical and vocational education. To enable tbh
LDTC to develop approaches relevant to client needs, close involvement
with the National Curriculum Committee would be required.
(d) ECOL
To guarantee an autonomous examination system while fostering a
coordinated development of curriculum and assessment materials, ECOL
will be actively involved with the National Curriculum Committee and
that the registrar be administratively accountable to the CEO,
Curriculum Services.   Presently, nCOL is responsible only for the
Junior Certificate, although it is actively involved in the development
of a local "0" level and will soon become responsible for administering
the PSLE.



- 94 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
Suvnort Services
The responsibillties of the CEO, Support Services will include
finance and accounting, personnel services, school supplies, huilding
and organization, school feeding, and office management.
(a) Accounts
The accounts section, directed at present by the Financial Controller,
vill be expanded to effectively take control of public finances. A
review of existing working practices is essential to improved efficiency
and an organized system for task distribution is urgently required. In
some cases, it may be desirable to move certain quasi-accounting
functions to the ministry sections most directly involved. It is
further recommended that the audit function of the section be
strengthened by the appointment of an internal auditor and the
establishment of an internal audit group.
Replacement of outdated office furniture and purchase of modern filing
cabinets is planned and would greatly improve the efficiency of the
section. Although computerization is not feasible in the short term, at
a later date new technology could assist in the audit process. The
section will proceed with the existing program of cost-center budgeting.
Integral to this plan is the delegation of specific annual budgets to
individual units, including the disaggregation of the inspectorate
budget for the separate inspe.ctorate branches. The development of cost-
center budgeting will require an expansion in the range of expenditure
codes and the introduction of separate codes for each cost center.
Greater use should be made of a contingency warrants system to
facilitate the expedition of equipment and similar purchases.
Expenditures relating to in-service training, transportation and expense
claims would be released from the warrant system to allow quicker
response from the ministry. The establishment of a contingency fund
will assist teachers suffering from contract delays.
The accounts section will play a greater role in controlling the
ministry's income through fees. Areas of doubt, such as the statutory
basls for tuition fees, would be resolved immediately. It will be
stipulated that on clarification of the liabilities, all fees must be
remitted to the ministry by the end of March of each year, and failure
to comply would meet with disciplinary action. The accounts section is
expected to cooperate closely at the senior level with the Strategic
Planning Unit for the generation of new policy options and the analysis
of the financial consequences of posslble courses of action.
(b) Personnel
The personnel section will be headed by the Principal Personnel Officer
(PPO) who will also assume the post of office manager. As at present,
this section will deal with employees of the ministry who are engaged by
the Public Bervire Commission.  The PPO will ascertain that future
staffing structures do not involve the transfer of project funded staff
to the ministry. It will ensure that vacancies do not remain
unfulfilled for long. Variations in staffing structures are recommended
only when appropriate and when there is sufficient control.



- 95 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 9
An important personnel function, somewhat neglected at present, is that
of staff development. There will be provision for appropriate training
as staff functions change rapidly. The staff will be informed in
advance about the changing demands of their jobs and be encouraged to
update their skills. The establishment of a training budget. which may
also be used to support the training of district officers, will oe vital
to this program. New hiring and promotion procedures will involve
competitive interviews, job advertisements, completion of standard
applications, and merit based procedures.
(c) Supplies
The ministry does not possess any overall schools supplies section, the
closest to such a section being the ad hoc body called the Schools
Supplies Unit (SSU) which had been created under an aid project. This
unit will be developed and its mandate extended to make it responsible
for all school supplies. It will be merged administratively with the
stores section and the new combined unit will be known as the
procurement section. This will be managed by a head of section,
supported by a principal accountant and a stores manager, and the
present aim of SSU to become self-financing will be maintained.
(d) School Building
A new section will be built based on the structure of the TSRP. This
,would be managed by a head of section, and the support staff of the
existing TSRP will be incorporated. The construction aspect of this
program would be the task of the school building section but the overall
planning responsibilities would lie with the Strategic Planning Unit.
(e) School Feeding
Responsibility for school feeding is currently divided between the
School Feeding Unit, which is part of the Inspectorate, and the new
School Self-Reliance Project (SSRP), which is notionally accountable to
the planning section. Although there is a significant difference in
approach in that the SFU is concerned with food aid and the SSRP with
agricultural education, there would be considerable advantage in a
unified management structure. Therefore, the SFU will be disbanded,
with the AEOs being reallocated to the mainstream inspectorate, and the
task of food audit will be undertaken as part of the normal inspection
program. The SSRP will become integrated with the remaining elements of
SFU in a new school feeding section and will have a comprehensive
management role in relation to school feeding matters.
Teachlin Services
The CEO, Teaching Services will be responsible for employment and
direction of the teaching profession, including professional relations,
conditions of service, salaries, staffing standards, teacher supply,
qualifications, pre-service and in-service training, and staff
development.



° 96 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
Currently the Teaching Service Commission is not carry!ng out the
role for which it was designed. The commission is seen as providing a
forum in which interested parties z4n discuss issues with
milnistryofficials. Yet even where the 'SC has taken action, its efforts
have received little publicity and are not widely recognized by
teachers. Furthermore, the ministry has little direct control over the
use of the most substantial part of the public funds made available for
educational purposes; the current system apportions grants for teachers'
salaries to school proprietors but not to indivldual establishments.
The allocation of blocks of posts tends to encourage proprietors to
allocate posts to areas where they are most easily filled rather than to
where there is greatest need.
The ministry will, therefore, take over the task of determining
staffing levels for individual schools. It will remain possible for
school proprietors to make annual submissions for staff either on a
block or individual basis but the final determination of staff numbers
will be made by the ministry and its staff in accordance with pre-
determined criteria. The ministry would be advised by local inspectors
who would monitor staff use, drawing attention to ca3es of particular
need. It should be noted that this recomendation is entirely
consistent with the suggestion made by the Education Secretaries, i.e.
that staffing complements be fixed in accordance with national staifing
ratios to be determined bv the ministry.  The relationship between the
Commission and the ministry will be redefined. The commission will make
recommendations to the ministry on all matters c .._erning the operation
of the teaching service and will oversee the employment of teachers so
as to secure a degree of freedom from governmen. control. The post of
secretary of the TSC will b'e merged with that of the CEO. Teaching
Services who would act as secretary to the TSC as well as manage the
teaching services section of the ministry.
It is appreciated that the proposals outlined will require some
amendment of existing legislation and may not be capable of immediate
fulfillment. In the short term progress will be made through closer
cooperation between the ministry and the TSC.  The functions of the
section should be decentralized, including those of teaching
appointments and promotions. Staff complement registers will be
computerized to ensure that vacancies are filled in time and problems
are rapidly identified and investigated by the local inspectorate.
C. SALAlY GRADINGS
The current grading structare has largely developed on an ad hoc
basis and has been adversely affected by the incorporation of posts
derived from special projects. The ensuing inconsistency is a potential
source of justifiable staff discontent and tends to inhibit initiative.
The lack of gaps in gradings makes it difficult to implement regradings
without major knock-on effects. Perhaps, most important of all, the
gradings of some key posts are insufficient to attract qualified
candidates. The proposals described here are designed to produce a



- 97 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
coherent grading system founded on several principles that include
internal consistency, accurate reflection of responsibility levels,
grading adjustment to role changes, establishment -f clear career
pathways, encouragement of initiative and decision making, and provision
for future grade changes without major structural disruptions.
Similar to other ministries, the post of principal secretary will
be at grade 18. Heads of service wili be graded 17, including the
nominated deputy to the PS. Posts with major managerial
responsibilities for curriculum and related matters will be at grade 15.
Section heads -Tithin the support service and posts with similar
managerial responsibility will receive a grade 13. Subject specialists
in the NCDC and LDTC, and stage or subject inspectors will be at grade
12. A case could be established for giving a grade of 13 to the NCDC
subject specialists and inspectors, in which event, revisions in other
posts may be necessary. Gradings of posts below 12 will remain as
current levels. Implementation of these proposals will produce a
coherent and equitable structure with three main tiers of senior
mana^ment at 18, 16/17, and 15. Middle management will be at grade 13
and senior professional staff at 12 and/or 13. Consistency will be
maintained as future posts are created.
D. INSTITUTIONAL LINKS WITH THE MINISTRY
There is considerable divergence between existing legislation and
practice with respect to the relationship between the ministry and other
institutions.  While a closer partnership between the ministry and the
providers of education is called fer, the recognition of the pre-
eminence of the ministry is crucial for enforcing policy guidelines.
(a) School Proprietors
Traditionally, school proprietors, as owners of grounds and buildings,
have played an important role as providers of education. As their
limited ability to make additional capacity investments is recognized,
their role in the management of the system needs clarification. It is
planned that they will be freed from existing managerial
responsibilities but that they will be afforded the opportunity to make
representations on roligious, cultural and curricular matters.
(b) School Management
School managers, currently overseeing key management issues on behalf of
school proprietors, will be phased out over a period of 2 to 3 years.
Management will be left to the head teachers and the local inspectorate
with only consultative assistance from the School Committee,
representative of proprietor, ministry and local community interests.
The establishment of a management tier within 2ach school together with
the proposed strengthening of the local inspectorate will facilitate
improved monitoring and development at local levels.



- 98 -
AJ: iX 4
Page 8 of 9
tc) Parents and the Coa=nlty
In their capacity as fee payers, parents have collectively played a
significant role in taking initiatives on behalf of the school. It is
now important that their involvement be formalized through the
establisbment of consultative committees and parent-teacher
associations.
(d) Further snd Higher Education
Three tertiary educational institutions: National University of Lesotho,
National Teachers' Training Center and the Lesotho Polytechnic, will
assume the formal role as providers of FHE. This will involve removing
all internal managerial responsibilities from the ministry,
establishing autonomy for the three institutes, maintaining links with
the finance and personnel sections, consolidating the Lerotholi
Technical Institute with other smaller establishments, establishing a
FHE inspectorate using the existing TVD as a basis and developing
suitable technical and vocational courses. Further, there is need for
an overview of post-school education and training, which will be
fulfilled by the Technical and Vocational Education Board.
E. MANAGOENT STYLE AND PROCEDURES
Issues that include the tendency of senior management to get
involved with minor operational problems and the reluctance of middle
management to take decisions have led to ineffective management systems
within the ministry.
(a) Delegation
The Principal Secretary will be assisted by a second tier of senior
level officers in the form of four CEOs and the strategic planning unit.
It is imperative that substantia'. powers are clearly delegated to these
officers and the practice of junior officers reporting directly to the
PS is discouraged. The objectives of promoting initiative and
independent decision-making will be met by establishing the following:
well-defined procedures for formal delegation of powers at all levels of
the ministry, producing an easily revisable administrative procedures
handbook, establishing quality circles and encouraging senior management
to establish clear programs for target setting and performance review.
(b) Committee Structures
Coher64t decision-making meetings will be held regularly at all levels
of management. These will include the PS and his immediate colleagues,
the CEOs and the heads of sections under thpir respective management,
inspectors and other members of the inspectorate teams, tile National
Curriculum Committee, and the Technical and Vocational Board.
(c) Wider Communication
The ministry has a need to communicate more regularly and effectively
with its staff, teaching force and the public. This will be fulfilled
by frequent briefings at the ministry and circuit or district levels,



99 -
AMNEX 4
Page 9 of 9
issuing sunnaries of policy statements, promoting its policies and
programs on Radio Lesotho, and regularizing field visitation by the
ministry.
G. IN CONCLUSION
The restructuring plans are designed to respond to the mAin
problems identified in the existing structure and will, when
implemented, make the ministry more effective as a policy-making body
and, more importantly, one that will be increasingly capable of
influencing the work of schools and collegei and securing improvements
in the quality of the service. It is perhaps this direct link to the
educational experiences of pupils and students that is most important,
not only in itself but ir. giving to employees of the ministry a keener
sense of purpose and thus both enhanced motivation and job-satisfaction.
The plans, therefore, lay stress on areas such as the development
of the local inspectorate, which would help to fortify the relationship
between the ministry and schools, and on proposals which are designed to
assist staff to improve in their performance.
Finally, the recom3endations have been designed to use mair.y
resources that are already available. Past experiences with over-
ambitious schemes have shown that it i3 better to relate proposals to
attainable means. Certain arms of service, most notably the local
inspectorate, could with great advantage be further strengthened; the
planned structure has been designed in such a way as to allow expansion
when possible. Nevertheless, it is also important to recognize that.
within a very constrained total budget, the proportion which will be
devoted to central administration is necessarily and properly limited.
It is essential that the primary emphasis be placed on developing the
quality of service at school level while ensuring that the ministry is
organized as to offer the necessary support.



LESOnlo
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
MALOTI                           Usll                         X Total
X Foroign      Be
Local  Foroen   . Total        Lo"al Foreign    Total    Exchange    Co.t
A. BASIC EDUCATION
1. FACILITIES                   18824     85632    54856         7680   14218   21742             6S        34
2. CUlt A INSTRUCT MATS.         2112       551      2"6          645      221     1065           21         2
3. ASSESSMENT                    1708      8142      4845         681    1267      1938           eS         8
4. PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT          4706      1064      5769        1882      426    2080            19         4
S. EFFICIENCT                     288       492       76          107      197      804           es         0
6. TEAOUR RECRUITMET            21750         0    21750         0700        0     8700            0        13
Sub-Total                          49862     40781    90144        19745    1681    8607             45       56
B. TEACOEI TRAINN
1. NTTC STRM TE/UPUT             5787      9788    15520         2816    398       5208           63        10
2. PRE- AM IN SERVICE TANS       6401      2246      7647        2160        8     8059           29         5
Sub-Tots                           11183     11979    23167         4475    4792      9267           52        14
C. TECH & - , iPUATION
1. SMLTY  & COST EFFECTVNS       1400      2195      8969         560      878    1488            6l         2
2. SKIUS CERT/INDUST IRC         1808      1S        2673         528      628     1149           64         2
8. POIUCY D&tELOPT                861       881       662         140      182      278           49         0
Sub-Totel                           8059      4090      7160        1224    1686    2660             57         4
0. NATIONAL Ul    OF LESOTHO
1. quALIy   COST CONTAIJOIT      1193      5442      6a6          477    2177      2654           32         4
E. SECTORAL MANAGEMENT
1. REORGAZATION OF MOE           9781      6811    18641          892    2724    6616             41        10
2. DECENTRALIZATION OF MOE       2917      5787      804         1167     216    8S2              66         6
8. LOCAL LEVEL SCHOOL MLNT       2267       719      2976         903      288     l190           24         2
4.  ONITORING A EVALUATION       1048      8691      4738         417     1476    1898            78         8
Sub-Tot l                          15947     17008    82955         6879    6083   13162             S2        20
F. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC.         1006      1184      2140         402      464      856           58         1
Total BASELINE COSTS               81756     80486    162191       82702    M74    64876             50       100
Physical Contingenclis           U392      6870    10262         1857    2746      4105           67         6
Price Contlnnclon               86394     80516    84010         2849    2746    5596             49         9
Total PROJECTS COSTS              118648   1171    28 646 _         690    8766      74576           51       115
V!  n Sca *d by 1000.0 - 6/6/1991  20:16



ISOTM
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMN PROJECT
Suary Account by Project Component
MALOTI
('COO)
NTTC   PRE- AND  qqALITY
CUJRR A           PROFESSI            TEACHER  STRENGTH    IN      A COST   SKILLS   POLICY
FACILITI  NR    ASSESSME   ONAL   EFFICIEN  RECRUITM  EN/OUTPU  SERVICE  EFFECTVN  CERTIND  DEVEII
ES      HATS.      NT     SUPPORT    CT        ENT        T       TRNO       S      UST 7R0    ofT
I. IKVEST1T COSTS
A. CIVIL WORS - PRI Y              38909        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0
B. O1ER CIVD WOIRKS                    0        0       376         0        0         0    12049       108        20      925         0
C. EqUIPMT                             0       24       332        0         0         0      189        20       8s       S9         0
D. FURNNE                          12229        0         5         0        0         0      1095        0         0       100        0
E. VATERIALS/MaPPUES/lKS               0      790       237        0       260                163       603       us        25         0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS               I800        0       18S        0         0         0     1095       o10       151      600         0
2. EXPATRIATE CONSULTANTS             0      260      2025       156      260         0      626         0       775        0         0
Sub-total                           16O6       250     2160       1S5      260         0      1720      810       926                  0
O.VEHICLES                             0       16        76        0         0         0        0       170         0        0         0
. SUDIES   RESEARCH                 10         0       320        0         0         0        0        20        52       76       482   _
_. TRAIND  AND FELLOHIPS                                                                                                                   0
1. IN-CONTRY TRAININ                  0        0        39      117         0        0         D)        0        0         0
2. EXERNAL TRAIING                    0        0       800        0         0         0       76      112S       440      260         0
Sub-toal                               0        0       339       117        0         0       is      1125       440      260         0
J. UETINGSl/U   OPS                    0     1866       430      2638      210        0         0       967       821                2S0
K. PER DIEMS ONLY                      0        0         0      2625       S0        0         0       236       24         0         0
L. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC.            0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
Total INIESTENT COSTS              b2894     2582      4278      5657      760         0    15230      4019      3199     2525       682
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOC    SALRIES                      0        0       532      232         0    21?S0       240      300       378       343         0
B. PETION & MAINDTENAN
1. BUIIDIM  5AN                     S45        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
2. E        0PENTOCA                917        0         0        0         0        0         0         0       13         0         0
S. VEHICLE OAV                        0       81        40        0         0        0         0        eS        0         0         0
Sub-total                           1462       e1        40        0         0        0         0        68      1i          0        0
C. SUPUES/ATERIALS                     0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        °
D. SERVICES/ENTS                       0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        O
oS.
Total RECUSET COSTS                 1462       81       57 2  282            0    21750       240                396                  0 O
Total BASELI E COSTS               6436      2663      4845     0. -9      760    21750    15520       7847    8a95       2873      62  0 
Physical Cotingaciz               5292      178       253      146        48        0      1493       196      199       176        *4  "^
Price Cootligeoci..              24201      799      1973     2204       UtI    10745      4695      2396     1414      110?       131  c
Total PROJECT COSTS M3649                    8641      7077     8119       99    32496    2170        108       5209      4166       o97
Taxes                             7289        0        60        0         0        0      203         17        3       14U        0
Foreign Excha                    54992      72       4626     1489       593        0    13721       a243     3169      2131       416



LEOTNO
- uun RE   EUmw  PrOJECT
Smwu Accouat yr P0ojet Cempemm
(11000)
MIp TY                        ^LOCAL   hONITI                            Physical         Price
a COST  RIJAn. iz%tmA         L ,Y9    NO &    PROJECT                  Coeti ga.cI.l    Conti  ml1se
CONTAIN   ZATION  LZATION  SOIOOL  EVALUATI PREPART
T     OF IOE   OF UK    MVNT         ON    ION FAC.    Total              Amsunt      I   Asuat
I. INES1UW  COSTS
A. CIV      nIt - PRtIMARY             0         0                   0        0         0    88909         10     39        45    17527
B. OTH  CIIL 6HKS                    2451        0      40J          0        0         0    20016         10     2001      24      4717
C. EJIr                              219        0       K1          0      275         0      36          10      809      21       641
0. tENtE                               10        0       406         0        0         0    1347          10     188       41      an
E. MATERIALi/SUPPLIESMUKS            1126        0       362        0       157         0      86          10       WY       6      1486
F. TECHNICAL AImICE
1. LOCAL CONILTANTS                   0       420         0        0       275         0      g1           a      184      54      17f*
2. EXPATRIATE CONSLTANT             675      7OZ          0         0     6593         0    16425          5      7'1      so       96
Sub-total                            675      7490         0        0       66          0    20618         4       906      so      M4
O. VEOIaLE                             0         0       270       140        0         0       617        S        41      20       IS0
H. STUDIES & UESEROI                 260         0         0         0        0         0      1299         5       6F      30        M80
t. iANN  AN  FELLOIPS
1. DI-ClUII 7UTUANI                   0       260         0      200        61         C       66         5         3      Ps       2# o
2. EXTERNAL TAIDI                  1625       400         0        0       472         0      4567        5       2a9      40      Is16
Sub-totl                             1625      050         0       200      488         0      55          5       2"       3       254
J. 1EETDIN OS1     S                   0         0         0      2600        0         0      9196        5       460      a       a857
K. PERDIE   ONLY                       0         0         0        6         0         0      l0SC        0         0      8       1141
L. PROJECT PRARAT    FAC.              0         0         0        a         0      2140      240         0         0       9       1N
Total INVEST     COS                 62       8146      6956     292       478       2140   122066         6      9717      n      45164
II. REClIEN    COSTS
A. LOCAL SUJIES                        0      7066       600        0         0         0    867           0         0      47    l80
B. OPERATION A MAINTENANCE
1. BUILDIN OGI                      274       260      2040        0         0         0      3109       10       811      48      182
2. E4IPWN TO*                         0         0         0        0         0         0       93t       10        94      ac       610
S. VEHICLE OIM                        0       400       106       56         0         0       75        10        76      46       84
Sub-total                            274       660      214       56         0         0      4797       10       490      46      2206
C. SWPLUESE/MTEALS                     0       300         0        0         0         0      tOO        10        30      48       129   . 
D. SER*ICES/RENT3                                          0        0         0         0       N0        10        t8      42       1In
Totl RECURENT COSTS                  274      6396      2748        6 S    0            0    40125         1       54       47    1#647
Total OASELDE COSTS                 6686    16S41       6704     2976      47U       2140   162191         6    10262       39    64010 o
Physical Contingencols             56        517       797      14        244         0    10262
Price CoetiegaI ..                 1699     6742      1929      1171     1986       156    64010         6      356F
Total PROJECT COSTS                 6871    23601    11480       4295     M9s9       2M      234604        6    ism2        27    640M1
Taxes                              356         0       590        0         0         0    10447         9       960
Foro1gn Exchang                    7406     9004      7570     1032      5416      125    117021         0      9265



LCSOlHO
EDuATION SECTOR DEVEPurT PROJECT
Sumary Accounts by Year
Total* Includtng Contlng.nele                              Total. Including ContingoacI.
IALOTI                                                       USS
9i/92   s2/9s     9/94    94/95    s6/98    Totl         91/92    92/93    93/94    94/96    S6/96    Total
I. INVESTM r COS
A. CIL M S - PRIMAY                  6996     9680    14162    17798    12492   6082?          2204     8409     4638     5210    382    16602
B. OER CIVIL MMS                     7900    10741     8042        0        0    2673          223      8706     2577        0        0      20
C. ESJIPUET                          1881     1442      786       14       16     4038          678      407      286        4        4     1415
D. FURNIIME                          84"      4143     4471     4187     4680    20917         1276     1420     1432     1211     12S1     6602
E. MATEIALS/SWUPLIES/B14S            1264     1486     1027      96S    1070       5802         465      518      829      280      285     182
F. TEOHICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS              1417     1674     1084     1814     1401     6979          S21      577      847     8s5       898     2228
2. XWAlRIATE CONSILTANTS          4084     4107    4601      4422     4904    22159         1488     1417     1603     1294     1806     7006
Sub-Total                            5451     5791      775     5786     6s    2188            2004     1004     1850     1679     1706     9234
0. VDUCLES                            276      742        0        0        0     1019          101      256        0        0        0      85
H. STUDIES A RESEACH                  560      458      286      202      802     1754          206      15B       75       59       81      5
I. TRADINI  AND FEOUA   S
1. 91-UT         TRA1D0            211      190      157      176      202      08           76       66        50       52       54      299
2. EXTERNAL TRAINDNG               645     1601     1600    1280      1209    664           28?       563      6o0      860      88      2008
_                                            ~~~~~~~~w
Sub-Total                            o66      1792    2047    1407       1470     7572          815      618      eS6      412      392    2398
J. MEETNIS/O! JHOPS                  1967    2046    2742    2688        2881    18165         719      1016      679      787      7S6     4168
K. PER DIE   ONLY                     019.   "4         872      887     1006     4157         227       287      279      260      208     1802
L. PROJECT FWEPARATION FAC.          282         0        0        0        0     2828         856         0        0        0        0      656
Total DNrESTUENT COSTS              32600   4018S    40109   8822        0271   176048        11970    18664    12851     9901     s078    SO61
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                    8215     6148     9808    13696    18265    51027        1182    2119       3145     3980    4u71    15296
8. OPERATION A MAINENC
1. MrtADI CAN                      675      049      950     1076     1221    4771          243      293      806       51s      826     1486
2. EIPWT OUI                        78      168      279      419      693     1538          29       68        89      128      156      457
. VEHICLE oA                       116      219      246      278      $16     1178          43       76       70        81        4      82
Sb-TotaI                              6e      1287    1475      1773    2129      7488         819      427      478       519     56       2806
C. SUPLIE/MATERIALS                    73       s0       90      101      115      459          27       2         29       SO       31      144
D. SERVICES/RENTS                      U4       96      108      122      16       547          81       88       84        86       87      171m
Total RECURRENT COSTS                4241     7566    11480    15592    20647    59616        1659     2607     8678      4604     5507    17916
Total PROJECT COST                  86801    47741    61569   49414    60918   2864U6        130    16471    150    14466    185O    745760
Valu%9 Scaled by 1000.0  5/6/1091 .20:05
f



LESOTHO
EUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALOTI
Suary Accounto by Year
8lc Coes                                   Foroign Exchange
91/92     92/98    93/94     94/95     9t96      Tote I        X    Amount
I. INVESTMBIT COSTS
A. CIVIL  RKS - PRIb                499S       7396     9486    10635       6518    38909           60    23346
B. OTHER CIVIL CRKS                 6594       8036      s886        0         0     20016          6s   13009
C. EquJIPM                          1504      1075       493         8         8      3088         100     3088
0. FURNI1URE                        2867       8098     2994      2449      2445     13847          90    12463
E. MATERIALS/SUPLIES/OKS             1044      l11a      687       565       558      8968          80    8177
F. TEORNICAL ASSISTANC.
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS             1280      1841       772       e5        860      5093           0        0
2. EXPATRIATE CONSULTNTS         8498      8216      829       2741      2679     16426          80    12340
Sub-tot l                           47M       4SS7      4063      SS92      8529     20518          60    12340
0. VEHICLES                          288       680         0         0         0       817         100      817
H. STUDIES & RESEARCH                486       859       16s       125       166      1299          67      667
I. TRAININ AUND FELLOWSHIPS
1. DN-COUNTRY TRAINING            188       150       110       110       110       se8          19      i2n
2. EXTERNAL TRAINDIN              565      1251      1826       762       98S      4687         100    4587
Sub-total                            742      1401      1436       872       808      525S          90    4715
J. NEETING/UUKSHOS                  1786      2824      1924      1666      156"      9196          18    1676
K. PER DIEMS ONLY                    677       042       642       677       677      8016          13      894 8"
L. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC.         2140         0         o         0         0      2140         S5      1184
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             27686     80574     2m7       20a88     16145    122068          68    77026
II. RECIfEl4T COSTS
V. LOCAL SALARIES                   8015      6101      7226      8es0     10475     84867           0        0
N. OPERATIN A MAINTENANCE
1. BUILDING Ohm                   563       6837       87       637       637      3109          60     18s6
2. EWJIPMENT OAE                   65       126       187       248       809       935          80      746
S. YEHICLE O&M                     96       a64       164       164       164       763          70      527
Sub-total                            728       927       9M8      1049      1110      4797          65     3139
0. SUPPLIES/MATERIALS                 6o        6o        so        60        60       800          90      270
P. SERVICES/RENTS                     72        72        72        72        72       860           0        0
Totol RECURENT COSTS                 870      6159      834S     10081     11718    40123            8     8409
Total BASELINE COSTS               81656    a8734      86M21     80418    27862    182191           60   8043S 85
Physical Contingenci.s           2168      2620      2384      1749      1841     10262          67     6870                              t e
Price Coot1ngencls               8078      8388     1884      17248    21715    64010            47   80316
Total PROJECT COSTS                86801    47741      51589    49414    50918   286464             S0   117621
Taxes                            1678      2474      2M66      21U8      1499    10447            0        0
Foreign Exchange                21844     26624     26678    22111      20884    117621         100   117621
Value Scaled by 1000.0  /6/11991  20:06



LESOTnO
EUCATION SECTOR DEVELOP"ENT PROJECT
Su_ry AccounUt Cost Sumry
MALOTI                            UsS                          x Total
-          -                      - --      ---------           X Foreign      Base
Local  Foreign      Total       Local Foreign    Totel      Exchange     Coat
I. DNVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WMORS - PRIMARY            IS683    28346      38909        6225     9338    16683           s0         24
B. OTHER CIVIL WORKS                 7005     18009     20015        2602     5204      8006           05        12
C. EquIPMEKT                            0      3088      8088           0     1235      1236          100         2
0. RURNITURE                         1885     12463     18847         564     4985    6539             90         9
E. MATERIALS/SUPPUES/8KS              791      3177      aso          816     1271     1687            80         2
F. TEOCNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS              509          0      5093        2087        0     2037            0          a
2. EXPATRIATE CONSULTANTS         8085     12840     16426        1234    4988      8170            80        10
Sub-Total                            8176     12840     20S18        8271     4988     8207            Ct        18
G.VEHICLES                              0       617       817           0      827      827                       1
H. S1UIES & RESEARCH                  482       867      1299         178      847      520                       1
I. TRAIN  AND FELLOUSIHIPS
1. IN-COUNTRY TRAININ              540       128        68         216       51      267          1i           0
2. EXTERNAL TRAININ                  0      4537      4687           0     1885     1686           100         8
Sub-Total                             540      4716      52C5         216     1886     2102           90          8
J. IEE     TR      PS                7620      1676      9196        8008      070     U88             18        6 
K. PER DIENS ONLY                    222        894      8o01        1049      167    1206             18         2                                us
L. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC.          l006      1184      2140         402      454      856           c8          1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              45041     77026    122068       18017   08011   48827             68         76
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. LOCAL SALARIES                  8U47           0     84067   *1387            0    18867            0         21
S. OPERATION A MAINTENANC
1. BUIDING OhM                    1243      1885      8109         497      746     1248           60         2
2. EqUIMENT CAN                    1S9       740       985          76      298      874           80         1
8. VECLE OhM                       226       b27       768         g0       211      801           70         0
Sub-Total                            1658      8189      4797         668    1265      1919           65          a
C. SWPPLIES/MATERIALS                  80       270       800          12      108      120           90         0
0. SERVICES/RENTS                     860         0       8B0         144        0      144            0         0
Tot.l RECtURENT COSTS               B0716      8409    40128        14686     1868    16049            8        25
Total BASELINE COSTS                81756     80486    162191       82702    82174    64876           SO       100
Physical Contingencies           8392       6870     10262        1857     2748     410S           67         8
Price Contingences              838694     80316    64010         ?S49     2746     5695           49         9                               X
______                               :________                   ____                                          GU
Total PROJECTS COSTS               116843    117021    286464       88908    87608    74676           61       115                             o
Valews Scaled by 1000.0 -   5/6/1991  20:07



LESOThO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Protect. Components by Y ar
Totals Including Contingncioe                               Totals Including Contingnclos
MALOTI
91/92    92/93    98/94    94/95    9S/90    Total        91/92    92/93    93/94    94/96    95/96    Total
A. BASIC EDUCATIN
1. FACILITIES                     9527    18972    18717    28069    18674    88849          8602     4821     5997     6760      4964    26024
2. CURR & NSTRUCT MATS.            801      1095      925      S88      261     8641          295      878      296       158       75     1201
a. ASSESSMENT                      849      1705     1324     1498     1701     7077          812      588      424       489      464     2217
4. PROFESSIONAL SUPPOT            1462      1894     1611     1757     1994     8119          S88      481      484       514      582     2649
. EFFICIENCY                       593       163      184        0        0      989          210       So       69         0        0      888
S. TEACHER RECRUITMENT            146"      8493     590      8910    12641    82495          609     1205     1892      2606     8871     9645
Sub-Ttabl                            14776    21822    28506     57682    86191   186119        6438     7629     9158    10409      9388    419069
B. lEACHO IRATNIN
1. NTMt SSRENOeeEN/OUTP9JT         596    10910      9867      178      156    21706          220     t874     8161       62        42     7289
2. PRE- AD IN SERVCETRNO          1420     2429      2458     2078     2858    10786          522      $86      766      606       629     88
Sub-Total                            2018    18889    12820      2255     2514    82446          742     4602     8947       660      670    10622
C. TECH A VOC UCATION
1. QqLM     A COST EPECIVNS        691    1226       1179      955     11s     5209          264      428      878      280       809     1648 
2. SKlLS CERT/INDUST Tl             B6     2108       822      777      66      41S6           82      727      108      227       280     1820    °
8. POLICY DEVELM                   888       238      114       97      110      897          124       82       87       28        29      80 l
Sub-Total                            1115      8572     1615      12      2180    10262          410     1282      517       58S     s58      88
D. NATIONAL lil OF LESOTHO
1. UALI1Y A COST CONTAINM         4796      972       908     1028     1166     8871         1768      885      2        301       811     8002
E. SECTORAL MAGEME
1. REORANIZATION OF HOE M808               4785      4687     5170     6178    28801         1116    l64      1502     1514      16"      7411
2. DECENITRALIZATION OF MOE       7198      1151      902     1021     1169    11480         264e      897      289      299       309    8940
. LCAL LEVELSCHOOL UYT             609      981       8465     8       1016     4295          224      821      271      202       271     1849
4. MONITORINO A EVALUATION         928      1219     1747     1465     1570     .918          239      420      560      428       419     2164
Sub-Total                           1176     80o8      8161     8640     9817    46489         4826     2772     2621     2500      2646    14864
F. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC.          2828        0         0        0        0     2828          56S        0        0        0         0      a6s
Total PROJECTS COSTS                8680l   47741    61589   49414    50918   286464           18580    16471    16650    14486    1858      74676
ValIm Scaled by 1000.0 5/0/1991 20:07
'urn



LESOlHO
ECATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Compoeenta by Y"r
Bae  Coet                            Total
91/92    92/93   98/94    94/95    95/96  MALOTI  US$
A. BASIC NUATION
1. FACILITIES                     7984   10463    12560   13670    9709    54356   21742
2. OUR & INSTRUCT MATS.            696      846    e63       831      161    2668    1065
3. ASSESSUENT                      722    1316       936     936      986    4846    19s6
4. PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT           1321    1127    1067    1116    1116    5769    2a80
S. EFFICIENCY                      5O0      18o     1SO        0        0      70       304
6. TEACHER RECRUITMENT            1450    2900    4850   s56         7260   21750    6700
Sub-total                          12628   1603   19702    21864    19163   90144   3607
B. TEACOt 1UADiDIN
1. NTTC STRETMEN/OUTPfUT           514    8182    6627       III       s6   16620    6206
2. PRE- AN  IN SERVICE lRNO       1299    1944    1756    1825    1825    7647    3069
Sub-total                           1618    10126    68       1486    1410   28167    9267
C. TECH A WC EUCATIOIN
1. N)ALITV A COST EPECTNS          569      940      625     596      698     8595    14U3
2. SKILS CENT/IUST  O               75    1575       231     501      491    2s73      1149
8. POICY DEVELOPkI                 296      167       6o      60       so      682      27a
Sub-total                            959    2711    1136    1157    1167    71n0    2600
0. $MTIONAL t31W OF LESOTHO
1. iULITY A COST CONTAIW          4016      742     e26      625      026    6636    2654
E. SECTORAL MANAGEMT
1. REORGNIZATON OF WOE            2687      77o    3351    8276    3461   16541    ee16
2. DECENRALIZATION OF MOE         5974    s66       615      616      61      8704    8462
8. LOCAL LEVEL SCHOOL MONT         540      784      594     554      564    2976    1190
4. MONITORING A EVALUATION          03      967    1216      901      867    4783      169S
Sub-ttel                           10004    682       6776    6846    547    32965   13182
F. PROJECT PREPARATION FAC.         2140        0       0        0        0    2140       666
Total BASELDIE COSTS               81656    67S84   35821   30416    27932  162191   6487
Physical Coatinga,c1e            2108    2620    2384       1749    1341   10262    4106
Price Contlngncles               3076    6366   18564   17248   21715   64010    6596
Total PROJECT COSTS                Z8601   4741    56169   49414   50918  286464    74570
Tex.                             1678    2474    2665    21U6    1499   10447    8346
Foreign Exchang                 21644   26624   26678   22111   20J84   117621   8768e
Valm  Scaled by 1000.0 6/8/191  20:06
II



- 108 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
LESOTHO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I * BASIC EDUCATION
A.  Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development
Curriculum Specialist (24 staff months) (see para. 4.07)
A curriculum specialist will be appointed to NCDC to assist the National
Curriculum Committee (NCC) in the revision of policy guidelines and to provide
guidance for the subsequent development of curriculum materiaJs within NCDC. The
consultant will provide essential background information for the development of
national curriculum priorities and compile statistics on current time use in
primary schools, as well as provide a summary of time-tabling practices under
other educational systems. The consultant will also play a key role in helping
the NCC determine the optimal assignment of class periods to individual subject
areas and develop timetables for different school-size categories.  S/he will
work closely with the subject panels in identifying areas where existing
materials may need to be modified and will liaise with the Evaluation Unit within
NCDC in trial-testing these materials and in making any further modifications.
Books and Educational Supplies Consultant(s) (8 staff months) (see para. 4.07)
As part of its efforts to improve the quality and efficiency of primary education
in Lesotho, the MOE wishes to review current procedures for the production and
distribution of instructional materials and textbooks.   To this end,  the
consultant(s) will work with the School Supplies Unit (SSU) during the first four
years of the plan on the design of managemeint and financial systems, facilitate
the inputting of stock control data on the computer, help establish a levy
formula, and explore the need for the Unit to have autonomous legal standing
within the sector. The consultant(s), who will spend two months a year during
the first four years on these tasks, will also examine the role and staffing
needs of the SSU vis a vis the proposed centralized procurement and supplies
operation.   In addition, the consultant(s) will work with the Instructional
Materials Resource Center (IMRC) to provide a detailed financial and
organizational analysis as a basis for discussions on the Center's future role.
B.  Student Assessment  (see paras. 4.10 and 4.11)
The Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE), currently administered by the
Ministry of Education, will be transferred to the Examination Council of Lesotho
(ECOL) by the end of the Fifth Five-Year Education Sector Plan. In addition,
the localized Cambridge Overseas Certificate Examination (COSC) will be
completely administered by ECOL by the final plan year. Two consultants will be
hired during the last three years of the plan to ensure a smooth transfer:



- 109 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Examination Officer (36 staff months)
To enable ECOL to adequately plan for the transfer of these exams, given to
approximately 30,000 students each year, the consultant will work closely with
the Registrar and develop annual examination schedules, train examiners and
establish guidelines to ensure the validity of items in the exams; consult with
the principal parties involved in the examinations (NCDC, teachers'
representatives, proprietors); and review and adapt procedures for registration,
printing, moderating and scoring. The consultant will help develop and implement
a system for providing feedback on exam performan   to schools, the MOE, and
others, and work closely with and train a local examination officer during the
third year of the plan.
Measurement Officer (36 staff months)
To enable ECOL to cope with the substantial increase in candidate numbers and to
extend the range, format, and quality of its examinations, the Measurement
officer will work closely with the Examination Officer to develop a practical
research program to contribute to the quality of the exams; conduct studies of
examination data focusing on the psychometric properties of the exams; train
examination setters, develop and pre-test scoring procedures for continuous
assessment and practical exams, and install a data-entry system for registering
candidates, recording and reporting results. In addition, the consultant will
provide data for reports of examination results (which are provided to schools,
MOE and others) and contribute to the writing of these reports. Finally, s/he
will work closely with and train a local measurement officer during the final
year of the plan.
C. Efficiency Improvements
IEC Specialist (8 staff months) (see para. 4.13)
In order to reduce and ultimately eliminate the considerable age variation within
primary, attributable to substantial differences in age of entry and high rates
of pupil dropout and repetition, the Government has decided to limit entry to
Standard 1 to pupils no younger than 6 and no older than 8 years of age, and to
limit repetition to a total of 2 years during a pupil's years in primary school.
An IEC specialist will be employed for eight months during the first plan year
to help design a public awareness campaign to inform parents, school proprietors,
and the community as a whole of the proposed changes and their long-term
benefits.   The specislist will assist in the design and pre-testing of all
campaign materials to ensure their effectiveness and applicability, determine the
target audiences and the most effective media for reaching them, and document the
response of the community to the messages, making any modifications as necessary.
The awareness campaign will use all appropriate media including, inter alia,
posters, notices in newspapers, radio discussions and advertising, travelling
theater troupes, and church announcements.



- 110 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
II.  TE&CNK TRAINGs RAISING STAIDARDS AND OUTPUT
A.  NTTC Institution Strengthening and Expanding Output
Since its creation, KTTC has been a department of the HOE. This will change
during 1991, when the institution will be granted autonomous status as a college
of education. To this end, long- and short-term consultants will be hired to
assist in the following areast
Management Adviser(s)  (24 staff months)   (see para. 4.16)
The management adviser will assist in the transition of NTTC from its present
status to an autonomous college of higher education. The adviser will assist in
the development of a system of governance for the internal administration and
management of the college, the establishment of a system of financial accounting,
the creation of appropriate conditions of service for the teaching staff, and the
development of a system of equitable appointments and promotions for teaching and
non-teaching staff. In the college's gradual efforts to upgrade its current
certificate program to the diploma level, the adviser will assist in identifying
any modifications and additions to the course curriculum and in the program as
a whole to make this transition possible, including the oversight of the
upgrading of administrative and teaching positions within NTTC.
B.  Strengthening Primary Teacher Pre- and In-Service Training Programs  (see para.
4.17)
The existing Lesotho In-service Education for Teachers (LIET) Program is designed
to upgrade the general educational levels and teaching competencies of
uncertified primary school teachers.   This program has an annual output of
teachers about double that from the regular NTTC three-year program and is a
critical element of the Ministry's plan to reduce the primary pupil-teacher ratio
to 50:1.
In-Service Training Adviser (60 staff months)
The adviser, recruited locally, will help review the extent to which the current
mix of practical and theoretical courses meets LIET participant needs.  All
general education, theoretical and practical courses will be evaluated, reviewed
and strengthened, and LIET participants will receive instruction in how to
develop pedagogically sound curriculum materials from limited resources.  In
addition, the training adviser will coordinate the supervision of field visits
to ensure the transfer of teaching skills to the schools and will identify
specific areas of weakness in the teaching capabilities of LIET trainees. When
such areas have been identified, the adviser will expand/modify curricula and
develop courses which address the specific deficiencies. Throughout this plan
period, the training adviser will work closely with the materials adviser to
ensure   the   compatibility   of   instructional   materials   with   proposed
changes/modifications. Finally, the adviser will write the terms of reference
and assist in the implementation of the independent evaluation of the program to
determine its effectiveness.



- 111 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Training Materials Specialist (12 staff months)
During the first two years of the plan, a curriculum materials specialist, alsp
recruited locally, will help determine the suitability of instructional materials
while working closely with the in-service training adviser.   The materials
specialist wlll update existing materials to accommodate any course changes and
will design, pre-test and produce materials for any additional courses.  An
attempt will be made to engage the trainees' interest by designing suitable and
creative teaching materials, with a view to providing the trainees with tools
that they can easily transfer to the classroom. The pedagogical tools developed
should go beyond the *traditional' textbook to include instxuctional materials
such as workbooks, handouts with graphics, (even audio-visual materials where
feasible) and print materials to complement existing distance education programs.
III.*    STENGTS ENING TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION
A.  Enhancing Quality and Cost Effectiveness
TVE Curriculum Development Adviser (31 staff months) (see para. 4.16)
The Government attaches a high priority to technical and vocational education
(TVE), viewing it as an important input into the creation of local employment
opportunities.   The TVE Curriculum Development Adviser(s) will work for six
months of every plan year to develop programs in the following four areas:
carpentry/joinery, brickwork, electricity, and auto mechanics. Following the
development of course materials, the adviser will oversee the pretesting,
modification, publication and distribution of the materials as needed. S/he will
offer workshops to instructors in TVE institutions and will establish criteria
for student assessment and develop written and performance tests. In addition,
the adviser will lisise with industry to identify possible entry pointq for TVE
graduates, will ast%ist them iL matching their areas of study with industry
requirements, and will participate in the joint MOE/industry subject panels.
Finally, the adviser will explore possibilities for apprenticeships or other co-
operative attachments whereby students at TVE institutions can combine course-
work with practical on-the-job training.
B.  Skills Certification/Trade Testing
Adviser for Skills Certification/Trade Testing Center (24 staff months) (see
para. 4.18)
As has been discussed in the SAR, a skills certification/trade testing center
will be established to provide pre-service training opportunities for the
development of skilled labor. An adviser will be hired for two years under the
current project to oversee the establishment of the center. He will assist in
the hiring and training of staff, and will work closely with the MOE and with
representatives of industry to ensure that the center will provide appropriate
testing opportunities and levels of training to compensate for skill
deficiencies. One of the aspects of this job will involve the development of new
trade tests to certify the skill levels of Basotho migrant miners returning from
RSA and providing skill euhancement to ensure this labor force can be gainfully
employed in Lesotho. In addition, the adviser will assist in the creation of
certification standards which would be acceptable to employers in the private



- 112 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
sector and which would be adhered to by the center. His other tasks will include
the oversight of the financial feasibility study which will be conducted during
the life of the pro4ect, starting with the creation of a baseline database
against which program impact can be measured.
IV.     NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF LESOTHO (NUL): QDALITY IMPROVEENTS AND COST CONTAINMENT
(see para. 4.21)
A.  Quality Enhancement and Cost Containment
Economic considerations dictate that the Government's subvention to NUL cannot
be increased substantially during the plan period. Thus the university will be
required to achieve internal savings and/or generate revenue from its own
activities while also enhancing the academic quality of NUL programs. To achieve
the goals of increased efficiency, effectiveness and cost-containment, the
following consultants will be hired:
Higher Fducation/Efficiency Specialist (12 staff months)
The consultant will assist in the identification of specific cost-containment
measures (as has been mentioned in para. 3.26 of the SAR), and in their effective
implementation. This will include assisting the NUL in the reduction of non-
teaching overheads and in the streamlining of course areas in order to offer more
coherent areas of concentration to the students. S/he will also identify any new
prospects for cost-saving as well as for potential reallocation of funds within
the items in the current budget. In addition, the specialist will pursue any
revenue-generating possibilities for the university including consulting and
research opportunities, in consultation with the research and staff development
adviser. Research and Staff Development Adviser (30 staff months)
In an attempt to improve the quality of the academic programs, the capacity of
the teaching staff to meet the growing research needs of the country, and to
accommodate the changes in cu.;riculum and teaching envisaged for the university,
the project provides support for a research and staff development adviser. The
adviser will spend six months of every plan year assisting the NUL in the design
of a research agenda and will play a key role in administering and evaluating
research proposals submitted for staff funding by NWL faculty, including helping
NUL to develop a systematic procedure for awarding training fellowships and
research grants. In addition, the adviser will maintain close contact with the
faculty, making him/herself available to the faculty as a source of information
and identifying relevant training opportunities for them that will contribute to
improvements in the quality of instruction at the NUL.
V.       STRENGTUNING SECTORAL MANAGEMENT
A.  Monitoring and Evaluation  (see para. 4.27)
The Ministry, specifically the Planning Unit, will be required to play major
coordinating, monitoring and evaluation roles during the course of the plan.
Technical assistance will be provided by the following consultants to assist with
data collection and to develop competencies related to policy making and
planning.



- 113 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
EMIS/Statistics Adviser (60 staff months)
An EMIS/statistics adviser will be hired to assist in the establishment of an
education management information system. S/he will assist in tracking primary
level pupil achievement and will ensure that the EMIS will be used to link
national priorities to data collection.   -he adviser's tasks will include
ensuring that appropriate hardware and software are purchased and tested, that
efficient and timely data collection procedures are established, and that these
procedures and computer programs are adequately pre-tested. The adviser will
assist the Planning/Statistics Unit to provide reports broken down by district,
proprietor and school or any other relevant category, and will help conduct trend
analyses on the effects of Government policies, such as those on entry, promotion
and retention. The adviser will assist the Statistics Unit in the collection and
reporting of general education data including, but not limitad to, information
on student enrollment, promotion, retention and gender distribution, and on
teacher education level, qualification and tenure to better inform policy making
within the MOE. A major objective will be to train Statistics Unit staff in
routine data collection and analysis.
Planning Adviser (60 staff months)
Working closely with members of the Planning Unit, the adviser will help develop
a monitoring system to assess the extent to which individual elements of the
Five-Year Plan are being implemented. Where necessary, the adviser will suggest
policy alternatives and strategies for achieving revised goals. The adviser will
also serve as theliaison between the Planning Unit and the many international
organizations/donors involved in the financing of various activities identified
within the Fifth Five-Year Plan. This liaison work will include ensuring that
donor-financed activities are in line with the objectives and priorities of the
Government and that these activities do not duplicate activities supported by
either the MOE or other donors. Finally, the adviser will make sure that all
donors involved in the plan are kept informed about changes tc it. The adviser
will also assist the coordinator of the World Bank project in coordinating the
implementation and reporting of project activities.
Financial Adviser (60 staff months)
The adviser will be required to liaise with senior Ministry officials including
members of the Planning Unit when designing a financial management and accounting
system. Responsibilities will include the expansion of the accounts department,
strengthening the audit division, a study on the desirability of introducing a
computerized financial system, the development of accounttng and cost-budgeting
systems, assigning annual budgets to units (e.g. NCDC) within the Ministry and
revising the method for payment of funds under the warrant system (such as
expenses). The adviser will also assist in the manag_ment of protect-related
accounting and audits.
q..



- 114 -                              ANNEX 7
LESOTHO                             Pase I of 2
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I plementation Schedule
1991          m           109          1994         19"          1996
1 2 8  4   1 2 8  4   1 2 8 4 s 1 2 J 4   1 2 J 4   1 2 8  4
PROJECT                             s            s            a            s            s
Bard Prantatlon                       .          s            s            s            s
Credit Effectivees                                            s            s           s            s            s
ProJect Completion
Credit Closing
A. BASIC ED IATION                                                         s            s           s            :
1. Physical Fac. - Prlmry        s            s                         s            s
a Phoca I                     s                                      s            s            s
b. Phase II                   s            s            s                         s
c. Phao III                   s            s            s            s
d. Furniture 
*. TA                                                                                          *
f. School Mapping Study              --                              s                         s-
g Prp. of Agreents            s            s                         s            s            s 
2. Curriec.   Instrue. Materials   s          s            s            a            s
a. National Timtabl                 _                  s            s
b. Oevolopment of Techer      s            s            s                  :                   s
Guides/Instrue. Materials   *           * -          *            *
c. Produc. and Oeave.         s            s            s
d. Strengthening SSU                     _            _s          _s            _s
* Proc. of Ve. and Equip.   I                           s            s            s            s
f. Evel of Yo.c Secndary      s            s            s            s            s            s
and Prim. EW Programs                                  
a           a            a            a            :            a     
S. Studnt Aee ee                 .            .            t                                     ::
a. T                          ss 
b. PIlot Tet - Prlmry         s                                                                s
c. Modif. of Tt  - Primry                  s                         s            s
d. Nationwide Ossaenstloe    s             t            s                                                  s
*. Cootl n.Asee. - S dCy I                 s            s                         a                        s
f. Transfer ot PSLE toCL    s              s                  *                   s            s           s
g. ECO. Strengtoning 
4. Prof Suport for Teachero      s            t            s            s            s
a. Prim. In-Sevice Training   s                                                                            s
b, Training NMm  MeTs                      t  .         £ .,         S            S           S
c. Secondary In-Service Treg   s
d. Eff ilency Improvements    I            t            t            t            t             
*. Ann-unce/1pm  of Pol Chang_st
. Recruitment of T     _achtre   a            a                                                               s
8. TEACoe  TRAININO                 s            t            t            s            a            a
1. NTTC Institution Strengthening s           *
2. Facilitlee Expenio n          S            a s                                                             a
S. Str n,th ning  Prmry Pre- and t            s            a            s            s            s
In-Servlce Training l                      *
C. TEOHNICAL ND VOCATInKL mUTIONs                s            s            s            s           s            s
1. Quaikty and Cost lffestivemet       s t                 a                         s a         a
a. Standerdizing Craft Corr.  t            *         _
b. Evening Claes o                         a            a                         *
2. Trade Teetng Center                        t                         t            s            s           s
a. 7easiblity Study           s        _   s            t                         a t          t
b. Constructioe               t            a                                       to
¢. Operation                  s            s            s
8. Policy O.lopment ,                         t            a            t            a           a            :
a. Policy Studies                          *                         *            a            a           a
D. MATONOL UNSVEtS  WtO  L tOTHO    ttt                                    
a. Modif. of Academi Pr"      I            *            t            t            t            t           a
b. Staff Devlopumnt                        t                                                   *
e. Library Upgrading          a                         *            s            a            a
d.Educ. Me. Ctr. Upgrading   s             *--                       a            a            a s
*. Ispl. Cost Contain. Ub     a s                       * S                       a            a           a
f. Study of Univ. Overhedbe    s           s            *            *            s            s
9.LAbor.ary Constron          t            Stt    . a*.aS:
a           a            a            S            S            S            :



- 115-                                   ANEX 7
iape 2 of 2
1991          sn           1i9t         1w4          1096        1t0
1 2  a  4 i1  2  8 4   I 2  * 4   I 1 2         4   I 1 2    4:1   2  8 4
R. T     TW IShCTAL MA                al          a            a *                        a            a 
1. OC Rrpalcttoe                  a            s            s
a. T wnnin      of ngonnt      s                                                    s                   _
b. FrInene          T                                                  a - E                                  a - V h  
a            a            s            t            a            a            a
2. OScoteolMaagmoe                a            a            a             a            a            a 
*.C n"trua tln of  C          a M C  s d                                           ss
*. Oper"tlon & sainthnonce     a            a             s                         _                         a
s t                       * a d                                  * u
J. Sth  lfonar _                               a            a             a            a                         a
*.Training .   Hadt.ohoro    a              s                                * _
b.Pro.*9 t.ah..I mo l*ordDO vt.a            a     .     ...                                           . a  *  . a 
a            a            t            a            a            a            a
4.U tZtolrei gand tt aluato n     a            s            a             a            a            a            a
a. St Mdotorin                 a         . ..8                         a            a            a            a
b.Pao.o *   ui. (>R3)          a            s          -......         a            a            a            a 
¢..Treining                    a            a                          s.........  a  a                       s
d.3O*oIin- 8udi..              a            a             a.___.       a            s            s            a
*. Z.9l.nSbO _$ hCl tlo                     a             aYr  t  ta     
t. Plan  onltorang TA          a                          -                -a    



- 116 -
ANNEX 8
KINGDOH OF LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
IDA                                                                       Lesotho
Fiscal      Semester    Disbursements      Cumulative         Z Dig-      Profile
Year                                       Disbursements      bursed      Z Disbursed
FY92            1             0.8              0.8               3              0
2            1.7               2.5             10              6
FY93            1             1.8              4.3              17             14
2            2.0               6.3             25             18
FY94            1             2.5              8.8              35            30
2            2.0              10.8             43             38
FY95            1             2.1             12 ,9             51            50
2            2.5             15.4              61             62
FY96            1             2.5             17v9              71             74
2            3.0             20.9              83             82
FY97            1             2.8             23.7              94            94
2            1.5             25.2             100             98
FY98            1              --               --              --           100
Notes The project is expected to be effective on September 15, 1991, and closed on
March 31, 1997.



- 117 -
ANNEX 9
Page l of 2
KIngdom of Lesotho
Education Sector Develoument Project
Supervision Plan
Approx.                              Espected Skill           Staff
Date        Activity                 Requirements             weeks
10/91       Supervision Mission      Economist                8.0
(Project Launch         Educator
Workshop)                Procurement Expert
Architect
Education Planner
USAID Staff member
EC Staff member
2/92        Review progress in       Architect                6.0
construction, vehicle   Economist
and goods procurement;  Mygmt. Specialist
assist in preparing     Educator/Ed. Planner
92/93 budget request;
review MOE reorganiza-
tion; general supervis-
sion of all components.
6/92        General supervision    ELonomist                  4.0
mission                 Aichitect
E:.iator/Ed Planner
10/92       General supervision      Ecor-.)mist              4.0
mission                 Arct 'tect
Edu:a4 or/Ed Planner
3/93        Supervision (First       Educatorl/               8.0
Project/Program         Education Planner
Review)                 Higher Ed. Spec.
Economist
Architect
Ed. Mgmt Spec.
USAID staff
l/ One of the teacm members needs to have a background in dealing with
TVE issues.



- 118 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
8/93        Ganeral supervision       Economist                4.0
mission (also in-        Ed. Mgmt. Spec
depth review of          Architect
decentralization &       Educator
school mgmt.)
12/93       General supervision       TVE Specialist           3.0
mission (special focus  Architect
on TVE)                  Educator
5/94        General supervisiovn    Economist                  4.0
mission (review of       Architect
student assessment       Exams Specialist
and teacher recruit-
ment progress)
9/94        Supervision mission       Economist                8.0
(Second project/         Architect
program review)          Education Planner
TVE specialist
Textbook/Library
Specialist
Ed. Mgmt. Spec.
USAID staff
2/95        General supervision       Educator                 3.0
mission (focus on        Architect
basic education)         Exams spec
8/95        General supervision       Educator                 3.0
mission                  Architect
Economist
3/96        General supervision       Economist                3.0
mission                  Architect
Educator
P/96        Supervision mission       Educator                 3.0
(begin work on PCR)      Architect
Economist
1/97        PCR mission               Educator                 6.0
Economist
Ed. Mgmt. Spec.
Architect



- 119 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 4
KINGDON OF LESOTRO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS ON TEE PROJECT PFLE
A.    Pro1ect Related
1.    A Report on The Academic Program Of the National University
of Lesotho, The Colorado College, 1990.
2.    Chabane and Makhakhe, Study of Post Primary School Resource
Use, 1990.
3.    Fallon, Peter.  The Proposed Education Adjustment Project:
Its Likely Impact Upon the Allocation of Public Expenditure,
1990.
4.    Keith, Sherry. Primary School Management in Lesotho: A
Discussion, 1990.
S.   Lesotho: Public-Sector Financial Management, World Bank,
1990.
6.    Levine, Victor.  Draft Recurrent Cost Projections, 1990.
7.    Makhakhe and Pitso, Local Level School Management.
8.   Makhetha and Pitso, A Report on the Analysis of the
Information Gathered from Headteacher on a Residential
Course at National Teacher Training College.
9.    Mohapeloa, J. M.. Conditions of Service for Teachers,
Lesotho Ministry of Education, 1990.
10.   Read, Anthony.  Lesothos  Book Development Consultancy, 3-
11th March, 1991, 1991.
11.   Report of a Review Commission of the National University of
Lesotho, 1989.
12.   Somerset, Anthony. The Primary School Leaving Examination,
1990.
13.   The Structure and Operation of the Ministry of Education,
Consultancy for the Government of Lesotho, Strathclyde
Regional Councils Department of Education, 1990.



- 120 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 4
14.   USAID.  "Lesotho Education Sectort Monitoring and
Evaluation Plan." 1991.
B.    Background
1.    A Position Paper on Lesotho Primary, Secondary and Non-
Formal Education, UNDP, 1990.
2.    Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland Study of Public
Administration Management: Issues and Training Needs, World
Bank, Report No. 5948, 1986.
3.    Clarification of Lesotho's Education Policies and
Priorities, Part II, Ministry of Education, Kingdom of
Lesotho, 1989/1990.
4.    Cobbe, James H., "The Educational System, Wage and Salary
Structures, and Income Distribution: Lesotho as a Case
Study, Circa 1975," 1984.
5.    Cobbe, James H., "The Changing Fature of Dependence:
Economic Problems in Lesotho,' The Journal of Modern African
Studies, 21, 2 (1983), pp. 293-310.
6.    Content Analysis of Reading and Mathematics Textbooks in
Fifteen Developing Countries, British Development Council,
1989.
7.    Cost Effectiveness of Education in the Kingdom of Lesotho,
World Bank, Report No. 5088-LSO, 1985.
8.    Cost-Benefit Analysis of Education in Lesotho, Ministry of
Education, Lesotho, 1983.
9.    Education in the Kingdom of Lesotho, UNICEF, 1990.
10.   Education Policies for Sub-Saharan Africa: Adjustment,
Revitalization and Expansion, World Bank, Report No. 6934,
1987.
11.   The Education Sector Survey, Maseru, 1983.



- 121 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 4
12.   Khabele, Joan M., "Social Soundness Analysis for the Lesotho
Primary Education Project," for the United States Agency for
International Development, July 1990.
13.   Kingdom of Lesotho: Education Sector Memorandum, World Bank,
Report No. 4022a-LSO, 1982.
14.   Kingdom of Lesotho: Improving Quality and Efficiency in
Education: Toward a Plan for Reform and Revitalization,
World Bank, Report No. 8066-LSO, 1989.
15.   The Labor Force Survey, Btreau of Statistics, Kingdom of
Lesotho, 1985/86.
16.   Lesotho Primary Education Program PIDIPAIP Review , USAID,
Project No. 632-0225, 1989.
17.   Lesotho Distance Teaching Center, USAID, 1983.
18.   Lesotho Public Expenditure Review: Education Sector, 1988.
19.   Lesotho: Country Strategy Paper, World Bank, 1989.
20.   Lesotho: Policy Framework Papers; 1988/89 to 1990/91;
1989/90 to 1991/92; 1990/91-1992/93, World Beak, 1988-90.
21.   Migration and Manpower in Lesotho, Bureau of Statistics,
Kingdom of Lesotho, 1978/79.
22.   Policies for Improving the Effectiveness of Primary
Education in Developing Countries, World Bank, Report No.
8729, 1990.
23.   Project Completion Reports and Project Performance Audit
Reports for Education Projects in Lesotho (First, Second,
Third, and Fourth), World Bank, Report Nos. 2999 (1980);
5356 (1984); 8238 (1989); and 8855 (1990);
24.   Proposal to Provide Rural Basic Education to Basotho Through
a "Learning Post" Network, UNICEF, 1982.
25.   Public Expenditure Priorities in Lesotho, World Bank, Report
No. 7243-LSO, 1988.
26.   Rideout, William H., Jr., "Institutional Analysis and
Training Recommendations," University of Southern California
Creative Associates, April 1991.



- 122 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 4
27.   Sector Study on Manpower Requirements, GTZ Project, Maseru,
1987.
28.   Staff Appraisal Reports for Education Proijects in Lesotho
(First, Second, Third, and Fou'rth), World Bank, Report Nos.
0363 (1974)sl628 (1977); 3347 (1981); and 5020 (1984).
29.   Teaching/Learning Strategies in Lesotho Primary School
Classrooms, Institute of Education, National University of
Lesotho, 1989.
30.   UNDP/Unicef in Cooperation in Education: Kingdom of Lesotho,
UNICEF/UNDP.
31.   USAID, "Report on Financial Management Assessment of
Government of Lesotho and Ministry of Education Essential to
Lesotho Primary Education Program: REF RFP LESOTHO 7-90,"
prepared by Peat Marwick, Maseru, March 1991.



- 123 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A.    OBJECTIVES
The Ministry of Education has two principal tasks for monitoring and
evaluating its Five-Year Education Development Plan, 1991/2-1995/6. It must
assesss progress at regular intervals (a) in implementing the various sectoral
programs and policy reforms described in the Plan, and (b) in improving
primary school quality -- the top priority for the Plan period. These tasks
require that the MOE extensively build its capacity in monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) at the central, district, and school levels.
B.    APPROACH
A basic monitoring and evaluation system will be established to assist
the Ministry of Education (MOE) tot (1) keep track of the implementation of
the Plan's prescribed educational improvements and policy changes, (2) assess
the effectiveness of the measures in moving toward greater educational quality
and efficiency, and (3) identify midcourse corrections that would improve Plan
performance. Emphasis will be given to two related effortst the development
and use of strategic annual program plans, and the establishment of an
education management information system incorporating key indicators on
primary school quality -- including measures of student learning -- at, their
use in decisions about school improvements.
The information provided through the M&E system, coordinated by the
Planning Unit of the MOE, is intended to serve various users. It will be the
principal means through which the Government, and the donors who ar', psrallel-
financing a portion of the Plan, are able to verify implementation and assess
whether the expected interim and long-term effects are being realized. It
will inform national authorities of educational problems which require their
attention and possible shift In resources. It will provide specific
information to district and local authorities to enable them to assess changes
at their levels of responsibility.
The Ministry will build upon its current data collection and reporting
efforts and employ technical assistance to develop further competence in data
collection and analysis related to educational reform. The establishment of
the M&E system will be linked to the strengthening of the MOE's capacity in
strategic and operational planning and task-based budgeting.
C.    TASK ONE -- MONITORING PLAN DIPLEMENTATION
The MOE will be responsible for monitoring progress in implementing the
measures prescribed in the Education Sector Development Plan. These pertain
to all levels of the education and training system and to its administration
and management. The measures entail policy reforms, organinational
Improvements, and service delivery.



- 124 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 7
Essential objectives concern the education sector broadly -- financing
and expenditures, institutional development and school management, conditions
of service for teachers, monitoring and evaluation -- and specific subsectors.
These objectives are listed in Annex 2. along with sets of interim benchmarks
for three periodss prior to credit effectiveness, 18 months thereafter, and
18 months subsequently. The Government will provide semi-annual reports on
progress toward achievement of the targets. The reports will include
documentation demonstrating that the policy changes and other actions have
taken place, and strategies or guidelines formulated to implement the
objectives. The achievement of some targets, such as a decline in greatly
overage students and a decrease in repetition rates, will be monitored through
the annual statistical data collected for the education management information
system, described under Do bblow.
The MOE has identified the need for a more strategic planning procedure
so that (a) the activities of each unit of the Ministry are linked to broad
Ministry objectives, (b) planned activities are aligned with available
resources, and (c) activities across units are coordinated, and potential
conflicts are anticipated and resolved. The move to strategic planning is
important as the Ministry implements the new Education Sector Development
Plan, because the program's success will depend on undertaking many
simultaneous initiatives in a coordinated way.
Strategic annual planning will enable the Ministry to:
a.    ensure that activities specified in the Development Plan are
reflected appropriately in the annual work plans of the pertinent Departments;
b.    anticipate and correct possible conflicts among activities planned
by different Units (for example, MOE Units define the in-service training
which they plan to provide wLthout reference to the training which other Units
intend to provide for the same personnel, thus inviting replication and
unrealistic claims on the individuals' available time);
co   monitor interim targets for Plan activities (for example, if the
objective is to distribute revised (streamlined) curriculum in three years,
the currLculum revision process should be underway before the second year, and
a decision made early in the first year as to a national curriculum
timetable);
d.    anticipate the steps required to ensure the intended policy
reforms; and,
e.    formulate revised courses of action if conditions warrant.
The strategic planning process will involve five steps:
1.    The Minlstry's Planning Unit will provide guidelines for the
preparation of annual work plans by all Heads of Programs or Departments. The
guLdelines will be issued prior to the program year, and refined on an annual
basis. Although work plans were submitted in the past, these tended to state
general activities rather than specific objectives and the intermediate



- 125 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 7
targets to be achieved. The new annual plans will be more systematic. They
will reflect the policy changes and object!ves in the Five-Year Plan which
pertain to the work of the program or department, and detail the targets,
strategies, and task-based budget required to implement the programs. The
plans will specify areas where the program director needs to collaborate with
other directors to dovetail work. Examples of areas which require
coordination across departments include the in-service training for district
education officers and teachers, and the evaluation of primary curriculum in
terms of its scope and sequence (NCDC) and use by teachers ia primary
classrooms (District and Assistant Education Officers). The plans will also
indicate how the official-in-charge intends to promote greater participation
among his or her staff in devising usefvl approaches to their work.
2.    Heads of Programs or Departments will prepare Annual Program Plans
which:
a.  Relate objectives to targets, strategies, and resources:
Ci)   listing the objectives set for the Program in the Five-Year
Development Plan, and adding others which are appropriate;
(ii) listing the targets which the Program aims to achieve in the
Plan's first year (1991/2-1992/3);
(iii) formulating an implementation schedule to achieve the
targets set;
(iv) describing the strategies to be used; and
(v) estimating the resources required (personnel, facilties,
other budget) to achieve the targets.
b.  Identify the areas of work that need to be pursued in cooperation
with other units, and how this will be done.
c.  Indicate communications which are planned to solicit ideas and
cooperation in pursuit of the program objectives:
(i)   from staff; and
(ii) from groups outside the Ministry.
d.  Specify training requirementss
(i) that which is most essential; and
(ii)  that which is desirabl'  ,hough less immediately pressing.
3.    The Planning Unit will provide foedback on the Departmental plans,
and suggest revisions, to ensure that:
a.  each Department's objectives are in line with those of the
Ministry;



- 126 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 7
b. the strategies and resource allocations are realistic;
c. major constraints are addressed; and
d. possible conflicts across Departments (in terms of demands on
staff time, resources, and scheduling) are reduced.
4.    The Planning Unit will compile the revised Departmental plans into
a Ministry-wide Annual Implementation Plan.
5.    The annual plans will be used as a basis for periodic discussions
among managers and staff to review how well the programs are progressing,
identify any problems that have arisen, and collectively consider what better
approaches could meet the objectives.
The plans are meant to guide action and to provide quick and helpful
feedback on performance so that corrective actions can be taken. The
preparation of program plans, and their review at midyear and end-of-year,
will thus become an important tool for managing the Five-Year Plan. The
annual plans will become increasingly useful during the Plan period as
managers and staff develop familiarity with the approach and receive related
training. By about the fourth year of the Plan period, the annual setting of
objectives and review of progress will be instituted at each level of
responsibility -- including that of the individual teacher.
The Ministry will assess its training requirements in the areas of
strategic and operational planning, objective budgeting, monitoring,
interactive communications, and the fostering of cooperation among
departments, and engage expertise during the Plan period as needed.
D.    TASK TWO -- MONITORING AND EVALUA"ING PRIMARY SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT
While the Education Sector Plan aims to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of the overall system, the main focus will be on improving
primary schooling, beginning with the lower standards. Since the improvement
of primary education will undoubtedly remain the Ministry's highest priority
through the year 2000, special effort will be made to establish a timely and
accurate information system with key data -- on the inputs, processes, and
outputs of primary education -- that are useful for monitoring and making
decisions about school quality. In addition, the Ministry will expand its
capacity for evaluating the impact of aspects of the Program at the primary
level, especially in terms of student learning.
Monitoring Inputs. Initially, attention will be on monitoring the
improved inputs to primary schooling which result from implementing the
Development Plan. These include the extent of increased resources provided
for primary education, the number of teachers recruited, the classrooms built
and furnished, the skills developed among teachers and headteachers, the
curricula streamlined, the instructional materials developed and distributed,
and so on.



- 127 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 7
Monitoring Outputs and Measuring Achievement. Monitorable outputs
mainly concern student attainment and student achievement. Attainment
measures include rates of progression, repetition, and attrition. Patterns of
change in these measures, and change in the average years to complete the
cycle, are key indicators of the extent of efficiency in the education system.
Measutes of student learning, with which to assess trends and individual
pupil progress, are inadequate. Two types of measures will be developed
during ths Plat   The first type concerns means for continuously monitoring
individual stude..t progress within the classroom.  Skills checklists for
Standards 1-3, and end-of-level tests for Standards 4-6, will be developed or
refined and introduced to teachers to enable them to regularly assess whether
their students have learned the intended curriculum. These tools can help
teachers identify when further instruction is needed for individual students,
how well they are teaching, and whether students have mastered the core skills
for progressing to the next level. The utility of continuous assessment
measures depends largely on teachers' skill in using them.
The second type of measure concerns the national assessment of student
achievement to gauge the extent of progress over time. This type of
assessment is made of a sample of students, in a sample of classrooms. It
permits the monitoring of student achievement by district or other
disaggregation. No national measure exists to assess what, and how well,
Basotho children are learning during the course of primary school, especially
in the lower grades. (The School Leaving Exam at the end of Standard 7 serves
chiefly to select entrants to secondary school. Recommendations have been
made by the Appraisal Mission that the scope and format of the test be
broadened to ensure that curriculum goals are adequately reflected.) To
provide objective data on levels of student achievement, indicators will be
developed for achievement tests at the end of Standard 3 and (possibly)
Standard 6.
Although increased student achievement is the most important goal for
the education system, large increases in achievement should not be expected
during this Plan period. Activities during the Plan are aimed at establishing
the necessary conditions for student achievement to occur. Aggregate
increases in student achievement would not be expected before more effective
instructional materials can be prepared and distributed to the schools (in the
latter part of the Plan period) and teachers receive related inservice
training (including newly recruited teachers many of whom will begin with less
professional training than present teachers).
Evaluating Effects. Beyond the desire to monitor whether the intended
changes have been made in the inputs to primary education, and what outputs
have resulted, there is also interest in evaluating whether the improved
inputs and processes (e.g., facilties and furniture, instructional materials,
teachers' management of learning, headteachers' management of schools,
conditions of service, and professional support from inspectors and resource
teachers) have actually contributed to the outcomes desired (namely, groater
student achievement, reduced repetition and attrition, and improved teacher
retention and morale). The aim is to better understand the relationships
among these elements so that resources can be put to best use and policies set



- 128 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 7
for making primary education more effective and efficient.  This level of
analysis -- to evaluate the effects of school characteristics and teacher
behavior on student achievement -- is complex and must be conducted over a
term longer than the Five-Year Plan. It requires an adequate clustering of
Inputs and methods, which will be obtained only toward the end of this -- and
during the following -- Plan period.
Establishing an Education N8nagement Enformation System. The Ministry
will monitor and evaluate primary education by expanding its collection of key
data on education inputs, school and classroom management and, eventually,
student achievement; and by investigating special topLcs and problems. Durlng
the first year of the Plan period, the Ministry's Planning Unit will define
the steps to a basic monitoring and evaluation sysetem for assessing
Improvements in primary education. The design will:
o     indicate the main education policy or management decisions
which the Ministry has to make during the next few years, the
kinds of questions it must answer to be able to make the
decisions, and the information it needs to answer the questions;
o     relate the primary-level improvements sought (inputs,
processes, and outputs) during the Plan period to the
identification of key indicators on which information is required;
o     outline means for the -outine and efficient collection and
compilation of the data required at the levels of the classroom,
the school, subdistrict, district, and Ministry;
-     establish timely feedback mechanisms at the various levels
so that the data can be used for educational management decisions;
3     speclfy the types of training needed for personnel at
different levels (e.g., in educational. efficiency concepts snd
analysis, monitoring school conditions, classroom and school
management, continuous assessment of student learning, maintenance
of data quality, student achievment testing, and analysis of
policy options);
o     indicate the resource requirements by component tasks; and,
o     draw up a feasible timetable for implementation.
The Ministry's Statistics Office, under the Planning Unit, will be the
locus for the primary education information system. Many school-level data
are regularly collected, including:
-     enrollment by grade, age, gender, and district;
-     teacher supply and demand, by qualifications, length of
service, and subject area;
-     student flow:  repetition and dropout;
-     JC examination results;
-     facilities and furnishings;
-     avallability of instructional materials;
-     selected trend data on the above indicators;
-     selected ratios from the above data.



- 129 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 7
These data have not been readily accessible or distributed in summary
form to those outside the central Ministry who could make use of them in
monitoring, analyzin,g. and evaluating policy reforms at the primary level.
Greater attention needs to be given during the Plan period to more effective
use of the data, at central and local levels, in planning, resource
allocation, and program management. This will involve analyzing the
implications of trends, and evaluating (and anticipating) the consequences of
alternative courses of action.
The intention during this and the following Plan period is to gradually
equip ten District Resource Centers (DRCs) to serve as important subcenters
for data collection, analysis, and feedback to schools and to the central
Ministry. The DRCs will be furnished with basic equipment and supplies for
monitoring primary schools in the area, and staff will be supported in these
tasks. District Education Officers will be trained to conduct comprehensive
inspections of primary schools and to sample student achievement. District
Resource Teachers will be trained to gather 'qualitative' data from classroom
observations. Training during the Plan period for headteachers and teachers
will include methods for continuously assessing progress by student, class,
and school. The capacity of the Evaluation unit of the NCDC will be
strengthend for evaluating the actual use and suitability of subject curricula
in the classroom.
The Ministry plans to provide funds for research and evalaation studies
(at least one a year) on topics it judges vital to the improvement of primary
schooling. These include the analysis of policy-amenable factors related to
student learning, student attrition and repetition, effective teaching and
effective school management. Rather than undertake most of the research
itself, the Ministry will, from time to time, announce its research priorities
and invite a competition of proposals from qualified individuals and
institutions.
The Ministry, through the Planning Unit, will enlist assistance from a
suitable group to plan an education management information system (EMIS) which
links national policy priorities to data collection, interpretation, and the
presentation of documented options for decision-making. The plan will detail
the types and formats of training which will be appropriate, over the five-
year period, for central Ministry staff and for District Education Officers,
District Resource Teachers, and Headteachers.
Currently, the Planning Unit is staffed with four posts, one of which is
occupied by an individual returning in September from M.A.-level training.
Two additional posts have been requested and these are urgently needed for
assistance with overall planning, coordination of Plan implementation, review
and synthesizing of reports, and budget analysis. Masters-level training in
education planning, economics, and evaluation will be sought for at least two
persons during the Plan period.
Additional long- and short-term assistance is required to assist in
establishing an information system for monitoring primary school quality.
Short-term expertise should also be employed in the areas of objective-based
planning, budgeting, and review to increase the efficiency and effectiveness
of programs throughout the sector.



LESOTHlO EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPIiTT PROJECT
LESOTHO
EDUCATION SECTOR REPORT
Education System, 1988
Theoretical
Age   8       7       8      9      10      11     12         13      14     15             16     17      18            18      19     20         20      21         22     23
Grade   1       2      3       4      5      6       7          8      9      10             11      12     13             13     14      15         15     16         17      18
POST PRIMARY
PRIMARY                      014    (VOCATIONAL)           I-i       TECHNICAL            l                 POSTSECONDARY
JR. SECONDARY                SR. SECONDARY                                   HIGHER
De                Post Grad.
Abroa
Education
b >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
High Lehd ad af                                           E
Academic | uirCeSy ;                                            16
Academiu  - J.C. Ct
'JunioCmmrionlTy           Ten     Traiting RuC.{
LAC  Lesotho AgrIcultural CollegeoolsI 5                                                                                                     6 
EFEH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~13                                                                 { _             Theologyo
TeaS der TraeodrM  ATPT.C.    Tear Crt
L/ Rolredlo h Lesoho  as Sartu arrs at ft Pary Center
Level andt as Fofrns at the Secondary Level.
a Joent P     rse (LAC    an       a     t NUL).                                              ocgCenters  usng
Sr       1 Yew intofs         Expenencat  o  es
ai  ol  SaWein k   V                                  m
ErMdery Point to LbrN Forceusang
So                                      _             {>-              A        e       D        q    .        *       {>pbn2acak~39OW
JC      - Junbr Crrn#:ate                                         Vc3ln                      AueL.A.C.3
PTC    -Primary Treacher Cerfificte{
APTC    Advne Prlmary Teacher Certficate i
LCAC     LoesarftnhoCialTaiin9ntt      Agricultutulre                                    Corxrinerrial CTIL
LIPA    -LesothTo Instiue of Putlic Andmmi-strationr-r_                                             _
SlC - ernran TerzerCe dle                          _- E_l      § 
IEMS   - nUueEtatlrl9:tes                                                                    H    HYoM  ener_ 
LOIC   -LesoJtho OppsTxturu8s IrnduosDithaion Center          Fa`-   Tt Cente            Healh Prat                         I.E.M.S.
ODM       Oversea Developmrnt - Managernnt nsdute             Faner Training Cetrs          NursiiV                   Busess Mar2eiet
Sourose: Witiiti of Erlucation of LesothLOCDMFa9efi
tOwwnery Nufses Aid          Ll.PA. Secretanalt            Health        Nws
M-g_                                                                                     r*A90



1 - Proect Authority          -      flects fIne reatIoishlps
Govemment ot Lesotho: Ministry of Education                                                  2             - P A r'irform  relatIonships
Organizathi,nal Structure: Current Gradings                                                  2- TSC o-                           -'In do    reotffetsp
3 - TVE board                   --Reports of*eRfedve co-opemtwo
Grade                                                                                        4 - Board of Govemors          0     Stabtory commissos, boads. comuntees
Principal
18 k                                                    -           Sec*retary
I ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ChI ir    -
17
14
.|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Liaeg I                                                                    s.    .   , 
13   Financial                       'i~!jj i               TSRP        CT      Leloaten9    Lere                                                 I
Personel   Plnning                                                                 I   - - --                    ayCidodSeconda              irui
12           nDepartment    Un.                                                                                                     Development   Inspectos    EQs
10                                                         .                                                                      s
sadsiw49332a



I                            LESOTHO EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
PoposedOqaDizatnal Stiaclre                                      F                                                                {
C~                                       __
~~~~add ~ ~ ~  ~    rdfi
~~~~~~~~~~Cb-  - - - - -  -x -                                         - - -   _      ----         
..~~~~~~~~ -  - - -.. - - -t - - -  - -                                  - - - - -  L---
RJ                       @                       X  g a,  V  " '' - - ' 1 0 ; ; ' -   '~~~~~~~~~~D  10  W
|1~~~~~~~~~~~W Rd    Et                                        kt
II~~~~ 
f4    k  gSX                                                  M .    N ;;.
14     1Ot      b      3w 01             b W                       S  Nr I 
~~R~~&i~~ ~
'' zi1I&ee baI .  *0g JG * g - -:-Or
"X. * - ,,r,::gW,.-, X1 0V: t :M
to ~~                ~::S-t0    ER-3                                                                      'V-



I.RD 23059
LESOTH O
EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BUTHA-           GROUP 2
GROUP 3  I YmXEREA t                         MKHOTLONG
_   MASERUER}  *
< 8 . ~~~~THABA-TSEKAf
\/dAFETENENG                         K     S
m  LE'$           A~~MLE, 
*HK NH                                 N
GROUP      UT  I G       GOUP 1
JOMM O 10 2030-  40 50 l __,J
KI uLOMTR  I  I            I
hUE n      0 26    40 o5
*   DISTRICT RESOURCE CENTERS
*   NTTC                                      5    R            1
A   NATIONAL UNIVERSITY <)
"  GROUP I                                        ZAMi     .2 
GROUP 2
GROUP 3                                 M
-   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
eI,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'o~~~- b T       0I         -    ;
MAY 1991



