Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2287 LSO
                   Development Credit Agreement
              (Education Sector Development Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 19, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2287 LSO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1991, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter from the Borrower,
dated June 4, 1991, describing a program of policies, goals and
actions designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's education
sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), a grant (the USAID
Grant) in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $24,900,000 to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the USAID Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and USAID;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the European
Page  2
Community (EC), a grant (the EC Grant) to assist in financing the
construction of 250 classrooms under the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EC; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 5, 1990, and
March 1, 1990, and May 17, 1991 and May 24, 1991, between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
      (d)   "TSC" means the Teaching Service Commission established
under the Teacher Service Commission Act, No. 15 of 1983;
      (e)   "NUL" means the National University of Lesotho,
operating pursuant to the National University of Lesotho Act No. 13
of 1975;
      (f)   "NTTC" means the National Teachers Training College;
      (g)   "PSLE" means the Primary School Leaving Examination;
      (h)   "JC" means the Junior Certificate Examination;
      (i)   "NCDC" means the National Curriculum Development Center;
      (j)   "ECOL" means the Examinations Council of Lesotho; and
      (k)   "Program" means the program of policies, goals and
actions referred to in Recital (B) in the preamble to this Agree-
ment.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
18,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of l%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
l%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May l and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2001, and ending May 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May l, 2011, shall be one
percent (l%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
Page  4
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, technical and education practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall increase recurrent resource
allocations to education by 54.4% in real terms between 1990/1991
and 1991/1992, and by at least 4% per cent per annum in real terms
thereafter, until completion of the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, during implementation of the
Project, recruit at least 1,300 new primary teachers, 260 per year,
and allocate at least 70% of such new teachers to the lower primary
grades (Standards 1 through 3).
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  5
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The implementation of the Program shall have been
suspended or terminated or shall have materially deviated from such
Program as defined in Section 1.02 (k) of this Agreement.
      (b)   Subject to paragraph (c) of this Section the right of
the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
thereof.
      (c)   Paragraph (b) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such grant; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
Page  6
      (a)   the USAID Grant Agreement has been signed by the
Borrower and USAID;
      (b)   the Borrower has enacted the revised Education Order;
and
      (c)   the Borrower has enacted the revised NUL Order and
Statutes.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 395
            Maseru, 100
            Lesotho
            Cable address:                Telex:
            FINMIN                         4330 LO
            Maseru                          4367 LO
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.U.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
            INDEVAS                        248423 (RCA)
            Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
            KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
            By /s/ T. W. van Tonder
                                         Authorized Representative
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
            By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Page  7
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                85%
    (a)  for Part A            2,699,000
         (l) (a) of
         the Project
    (b)  for Part A            2,924,000
         (l) (b) of
         the Project
    (c)  for Part A            2,924,000
         (1) (c) of
         the Project
(2) Civil works:                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
    (a)  for Part C.5            300,000
         of the Project
    (b)  for Part D.2            300,000
         of the Project
         Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3) Civil works under            525,000        lO%
    Parts B and E
    of the Project
(4) furniture, equip-          1,050,000        lOO%
    ment, materials,
    supplies and
    vehicles
(5) Consultants'               6,522,000        lOO%
    services, studies
    and training
(6) Refunding of                 675,000        Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
    tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7) Unallocated                  981,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                18,900,000
                              ==========
Page  8
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments made
for expenditures under Category (l) (b) until the Borrower has (i)
implemented the policy regarding exclusion from primary school of
children under six years of age, (ii) has publicly announced policy
changes related to primary enrollment of pupils over eight years of
age and limitations on repetitions to two per primary cycle, and
(iii) allocated Borrower-financed secondary teaching posts based on
a minimum student/teacher ratio of 25:1 and revised regulations
governing establishment of new secondary schools; (c) payments for
expenditures under Category (1) (c) until the Borrower has imple-
mented the policy changes related to the enrollment of over-aged
pupils and the number of repetitions per primary cycle; (d) payments
for expenditures under Category (2) (a) until the feasibility study
on the financial aspects of operating the skills certification
center has been completed to the satisfaction of the Association;
and (e) payments for expenditures under Category (2) (b) until the
Borrower has (i) completed the study of NUL overheads, (ii) satis-
factorily implemented cost-containment measures at NUL, and (iii)
introduced modifications to the student academic program at NUL.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to facilitate the implemen-
tation of the Borrower's Program focussing on: (i) increasing the
quality, efficiency and relevance of educational programs,
especially primary education; and (ii) addressing key management,
financing and resource allocation, and staffing issues which
constrain overall sectoral performance.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Basic Education
1.    Construction of new and rehabilitation of existing classrooms
and construction of sanitary facilities at primary schools as
follows:
      (a)   about 257 new classrooms, about 60 existing classrooms
and about 544 sanitary facilities in Quthing, Qacha's Nek, Mohale's
Hoek and 60% of Mafeting Districts;
      (b)   about 275 new classrooms, about 65 existing classrooms
and about 576 sanitary facilities in Butha-Buthe, Leribe and
Mokhotlong; and
      (c)   about 318 new classrooms, about 75 existing classrooms
and about 640 sanitary facilities in Maseru, Berea, Thaba Tseka and
40Z of Mafeteng Districts.
2.    Acquisition of furniture for all new classrooms and up to 50%
of existing unfurnished classrooms.
3.    (a)   Primary curriculum development including a national
timetable and subject syllabi to reflect curricular priorities;
      (b)   development and dissemination of instructional materials
Page  9
and teachers guides in about eight subjects, commencing with
Mathematics, English and Sesotho for lower primary grades; and
      (c)   evaluation of the agriculture and self-reliance program
in primary schools.
4.    (a)   Revision and streamlining of junior secondary school
syllabi for about nine subjects;
      (b)   development and production of teacher handbooks; and
      (c)   evaluation of the diversified secondary school program.
5.    (a)   Strengthening of capacity of teachers to systematically
evaluate the learning achievements of primary and secondary students
on a continuous basis; and
      (b)   broadening the scope of the PSLE and JC examinations and
improving their administration, including the transfer of PSLE from
NCDC to ECOL.
6.    Development and implementation of a systematic in-service
training program for teachers.
7.    Implementation of policies and carrying out a public awareness
campaign aimed at reducing repetition and enrollment of under- and
over-age students in primary schools, and rationalization of teacher
grant allocations to secondary schools.
8.    Recruitment of at least 1,300 additional primary teachers.
Part B:     Teacher Training
1.    Strengthening of NTTC's institutional capacity and facilitat-
ing expansion of teacher output from about 650 to about l,100,
through establishing procedures and systems for administration,
academic planning and program development.
2.    Expansion of hostel accommodations, teaching and dining
facilities at NTTC.
3.    Acquisition of audio-visual and other pedagogical equipment
and materials.
4.    Improvement of NTTC library's management and resources through
the acquisition of equipment, books and journals.
5.    Strengthening of primary pre- and in-service teacher training
programs through, inter alia, the provision of fellowships to NTTC
lecturers.
Part C:     Technical and Vocational Education
1.    Development of standardized modular curricula in about four
crafts level courses at four post-secondary TVE institutions.
2.    Training of staff of the TVE institutions.
3.    Upgrading of facilities and equipment at the four TVE
institutions.
4.    Introduction of evening classes at the four TVE Institutions
referred to in Part C.l above and about eight other TVE institutions
and secondary schools equipped with workshop facilities.
5.    Construction, equipping and staffing of a skills certifica-
tion/trade-testing center.
6.    Development of new trade tests in about five fields.
7.    Carrying out of studies on the following:
Page  10
      (a)   the feasibility of introducing a hotel manage-
ment/catering course;
      (b)   attrition at TVE Institutions;
      (c)   the feasibility of introducing a training levy and
apprenticeship system;
      (d)   review of the TVE Act as it relates to in-service
training; and
      (e)   tracing students graduating from TVE Institutions.
Part D:     National University of Lesotho
1.    Implementation of modifications to NUL's existing academic
program.
2.    Expansion of science laboratory facilities and acquisition of
furniture and equipment.
3.    Staff development, including overseas training, fellowships
and research grants.
4.    Upgrading of library facilities, through the acquisition of
books and journals, and computerization of the library system.
5.    Strengthening of the educational resource center through the
acquisition of teaching equipment.
6.    Implementation of cost-containment measures and identification
of further areas for reduction in university non-academic expendi-
tures.
Part E:     Education Sector Management
l.    Reorganization of central MOE and the establishment of a
twinning arrangement with an appropriate institution to assist with
administrative and management improvements.
2.    Establishment of ten District Resource Centers, including
staffing, construction of offices, acquisition of furniture, office
equipment, teaching/learning materials, vehicles.
3.    Management training for headteachers and principals.
4.    Establishment of an education management information system
for monitoring the implementation of the education development plan
and student achievement.
                              *  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, l996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procedured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for civil works under Part A.l of the Project shall be
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more.
Page  11
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Lesotho may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs l through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $16,100,000, and for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $40,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Prequalification and Review by the Association of
            Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  12
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ specialists and consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Director of the MOE Planning Unit shall be responsible for
monitoring and coordinating the implementation of the Project.
One of the Planning Officers in the Planning Unit shall be desig-
nated Project Coordinator and shall be responsible for following up
on Project implementation on a day-to-day basis.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no later than March 31,
1993, an independent evaluation of the self-reliance activities in
primary schools shall be carried out; (b) the findings of such
evaluation shall be reviewed with the Association; and (c) agreed
recommendations shall be implemented no later than September 30,
1994.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) no later than March 31,
1993, an independent evaluation of the diversified secondary
education program shall be carried out; (b) the findings of such
evaluation shall be reviewed with the Association; and (c) agreed
recommendations shall be implemented no later than September 30,
1994.
4.    The Borrower shall introduce evening classes in a minimum of
twelve institutions with technical education facilities by March 31,
1993.
5.    The Borrower shall jointly with the Association, undertake two
Project Implementation Reviews by no later than March 1993, and
September 1994, respectively to: (a) monitor progress in achieving
the objectives of the Program and the Project; (b) identify
implementation issues and proposed solutions; (c) promote exchange
of ideas among Project staff; and (d) update Project timetables.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule l to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Page  13
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Page  14
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
