Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2707 
Operation Name 
VN - Program 135 Phase 2 Support Credit 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%);Sub-
national government administration (50%) 
Project ID 
P104097 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
Committee for Ethnic Minorities (CEM), Ministry of Planning and 
Investment (MPI), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of 
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), Selected Provincial 
People’s Committees (PPCs)
 
Date PID Prepared 
November 28, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 27, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 13, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
At the current rate of progress in sustaining widely-shared economic growth and reducing poverty, Vietnam 
would attain middle-income status by around 2010. While Vietnam will not graduate from IDA within the 
next five years, its current performance makes a transition to IBRD/IDA blend-status in the latter half this 
period highly likely. Strategic choices therefore need to be made regarding the most appropriate aid 
modalities for rapidly scaling-up the impact of innovative approaches supported to date under IDA-supported 
investment operations – including ways of promoting informed participation and civic engagement at 
community level in targeted public investment programs – and ensuring their future institutional 
sustainability.  
 
The Government of Vietnam has gained considerable experience with policy-based lending instruments over 
the last five years
 in implementing a series of annual Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) in support 
of its overall policy reform agenda. The proposed series of operations would therefore complement the 
PRSC-related, ‘macro’ reform agenda by supporting a program of ‘meso-level’ policy and institutional 
actions to help scale-up and sustain the impact of the reformed elements of P135-2. 
 
The proposed series of policy-based lending operations also offers a powerful vehicle for donor coordination 
around a high-priority, programmatic reform agenda
.
Consistent with the Hanoi Core Statement on Aid 
Effectiveness (Vietnam’s localized version of the Paris Declaration), the Government of Vietnam and donor 
community are agreed that policy-based budget support, complemented by parallel TA, provides the most 
appropriate financing modality to help bring about these strategic outcomes for which P135-2 provides the 
best available entry point. The proposed operation has been jointly prepared and would be co-financed by 
five bilateral donors (Australia, Finland, Ireland, Sweden, and the UK) and other multilateral agencies 
(IFAD) in addition to IDA. UNDP is providing parallel TA support, and other bilateral (e.g. Canada) and 
multilateral (e.g. EC) agencies have expressed interest in joining the joint donor budget-support group in the 
near future. All co-financiers would use a common operation policy matrix or results framework as a basis 
for disbursement, including those who propose to disburse annually, including the alternate years between 
the IDA-supported operations. 
Page  2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed Credit, the first in a series of three single-tranche operations over 2007-2010, would support 
policy and institutional actions to improve the results of Program 135, Phase 2 as an entry point to a wider, 
emerging agenda for systemic change in the way NTPs in Vietnam are conceived and implemented.  
 
Specifically, the proposed Credit would support policy and institutional actions to improve the results of 
P135-
2
in the following four main ‘meso-level’ policy areas: (i) improved poverty targeting of program 
resource allocation; (ii) deepening and scaling-up of community-driven approaches to planning, managing, 
operating and maintaining basic rural infrastructure; (iii) enhanced fiduciary transparency and accountability 
in program implementation through wider use of ‘social audit’ approaches; and (iv) process monitoring and 
impact evaluation. Critical aspects of this reform agenda have already been demonstrated at scale under 
ongoing IDA- and other ODA-supported initiatives in Vietnam covering at least a half of all the provinces 
and localities targeted for inclusion in P135-2.  
 
The prior actions for the first operation are primarily policy and institutional actions already shown to deliver 
results through strengthening community-level ownership over the planning, execution, management and 
construction supervision, and operation and maintenance of basic infrastructure investments. Some of these 
would be applied in selected provinces under P135-2 with monitoring mechanisms in place to allow 
Government, IDA and co-financing donors to assess results 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation would support policy and institutional actions to improve the
 results of one of Vietnam’s 
principal National Target Programs (NTPs) for poverty reduction: the re-designed Program for Socio-Economic 
Development in Communes Facing Extreme Hardship in Ethnic Minority and Mountainous Areas (2006-2010), 
also known as ‘Program 135, Phase 2’. This program provides basic infrastructure, production and livelihood 
support services, and capacity-building support to predominantly ethnic minority communities living in 
Vietnam’s poorest and most remote communes and villages.
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Under Operational Policy 8.60, an environmental assessment and preparation of an Environmental Management 
Plan and associated risk mitigation measures are not required. However, it is a requirement that due diligence be 
done to assess environmental and natural resource considerations relevant to the proposed operation and to 
explore options for mitigating any risks identified. An examination of the environmental implications of P135-2 
was therefore undertaken by the Borrower with consultant support during the preparation of the proposed Credit, 
building on an earlier, generally positive, assessment of the environmental impacts of Program 135 Phase 1 
conducted in 2005 with support from UK DFID. The environmental examination of P135-2 also builds on the 
findings of environmental safeguards compliance monitoring conducted under the IDA-supported Northern 
Mountains Poverty Reduction and Community Based Rural Infrastructure Projects. Experience under these 
ongoing investment operations, which finance very similar investments to those under the infrastructure 
component of P135-2, suggests that adverse environmental impacts are very small, whether considered 
individually or in the aggregate, while positive environmental impacts are significant. Adverse impacts, when 
they are a concern, can generally be mitigated or prevented entirely by relatively simple measures during sub-
project planning and construction and incorporation of appropriate clauses in construction contracts.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
805
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
50 
Page  3
AUSTRALIA: AUSTRALIAN AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT 
3.81 
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT (DFID) 
15.03 
FINLAND: MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS 
7.57 
IRELAND, GOV. OF 
6.31 
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT 
3.67 
SWEDEN: SWEDISH INTL. DEV. COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA) 
3.42 
 Total 
894.81
6. Contact point 
Contact: Robin Mearns 
Title: Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: 5777+315 
Fax: (84 4) 9346597 
Email: Rmearns@worldbank.org 
Location: Hanoi, Vietnam (IBRD)
 
