Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19788-GUI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.8 MILLION
(US$19.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
THE CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVERY PROGRAM
November 22, 1999
Capacity Buiiding Unit
Co,nt,y Department 16
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 22, 1999
Currency Unit = GNF
GNF = US$0.000727
US$1 = GNF 1375.25
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          Adaptable Program Lending
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBSDP        Capacity Building for Service Delivery Program
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CRD          CommunautW Rurale de Developpement
CU           Communaute Urbaine
DAAF         Direction des Affaires Administratives and Financieres
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
MIATD        Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPC          Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
MEFP         Ministry of Employment and Civil Service
MTEF         Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PDC          Conseil Prefectoral de Developpement
PEMAC        Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
PIMC         Project Inter-Ministerial Management Committee
PAU          Project Administration Unit
POM          Project Operational Manual
PPA          Primary Program Account
PSC          Project Steering Committee
SAAF         Service des Affaires Administratives et Financieres
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
SPA          Special Program Account
SPISDF       Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery Fund
UJNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VCSP         Village Community Support Program
Vice President  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director   Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager   Brian D. Levy
Task Team Leader   Rudy Chizungu



Guinea
Capacity Building for Service Delivery Program
CONTENTS
I. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES                                        2
A.    Program purpose and phasing                                                    2
B.    Project development objectives and Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1B)   3
C.    Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans              4
II. STRATEGIC CONTEXT                                                                5
A.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal supported by the project
(See Annex 1B)                                                                5
B.    Main sector issues and Government strategy                                     6
C.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:            7
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                                     8
A.    Project components                                                             8
B.    Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project                  8
C.    Benefits, beneficiaries and target population                                  9
IV. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                                    9
A.    Project Coordination and Management (See Annex 2)                              9
B.    Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements (See Annex 8)       10
C.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting                                          10
V. PROJECT RATIONALE                                                                11
A.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                     11
B.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies    11
C.    Lessons learned and reflected in project design                               1Z
D.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                              12
E.    Value added of IDA Support                                                    13
VI. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS                                                        13
A.    Economic                                                                      13
B.    Financial                                                                     13



C.    Technical                                                                        13
D.    Institutional                                                                    13
E.    Social                                                                           14
F.    Environmental                                                                    14
G.    Participatory Approach                                                           14
VII.  SUSTAINABILITY AND RIS]KS                                                        15
A.    Sustainability                                                                   15
B.    Critical Risks                                                                   15
C.    Potential Controversial Aspects                                                  16
VIII. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS                                                           16
A.    Conditions for Board Presentation                                                16
B.    Conditions for Effectiveness                                                     16
C.    Conditions for Disbursement of Performance Grants and Performance Award under the
Sustainable Performance In Service Delivery Fund                                16
D.    Assurances Obtained at Negotiations                                              17
E.    Readiness for Implementation                                                     17
F.    Compliance with Bank Policies                                                    18
Annexes
Annex IA.    Letter of Decentralization Policy
Annex lB.    Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs Sum-mary
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A      Project Costs by Procurementl; Arrangements
Table B      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table D      Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Financial Management
Annex 9.     Documents in the Project file
Annex 10.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.    Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD No. 27220



1
Guinea
Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Country Department 16
Date: November 22,1999                             Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Rudy Chizungu
Country Director: Mamadou Dia                      Sector Manager: Brian David Levy
Project ID:            Sector Public Sector        Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation/ Economic Management
GN-PE-49716            Management
Lending Instriment: Adaptable Program Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:         [X]      Yes          [    No
Program Financing Data (US$M)                      Sources of Financing
A PLs__                                 _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _    __  _   _
Total Cost       Government             Others   IDA
First Phase:             2000 - 2003               21.0             2.0              N/A      19.0
Second Phase:            2004 -2007                55.0             4.5              10.0    40.5
Third Phase:             2008 -2011                75.0             5.5              20.0    49.5
Program TotalCost                         151.0            12.0                      30.0    109.0
Project (First Phase) Financing Data (uS$M)      []  Loan         [X I Credit    |]  Guarantee           [   Other [Specify
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m /SDRm): US$ 19.0/SDR 13.8m
Grace period (years):   10
Years to maturity:      40
Commitment fee:          0.5%
Service charge:          0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):  [] To be defined
Source                                                                          Local              Foreign           Total
Goverm-ent                                                                      2.00                  -              2.00
IDA                                                                             6.03                12.97            19.00
Total         8.03                12.97            21.00
Borrower: Government of Guinea
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency: Ministry of Territorial Admninistration and Decentralization
Estimated disbursements (BankFYUS$M):                     1999    2000    2001       2002    2003
Annual                  1.2     8.44      4.64     2.15 m56
Cumulative                 1.2      9.64     14.2p    16.43    19.0
For Guarantees: N.A i n  a                                     Partial credit   I w      Partial esk 
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying fmnancing:
Temis of financinLg:  |INA
Principal amount (UJS$m)
IFir,al matiirity _
_~~~~~~ Amortization profi le
Financing available with out guarantee: N/A                   if[]   I Yes                  I []  TNO              -
If yes, estimated cost or matiarity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: March 15, 2000                          Expected closing date: June 30, 2004



2
I.    PROGRAM AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
A.    Program purpose and phasing
1.    The Capacity Building for Service Delivery Program (CBSDP) supports the Government of
Guinea's effort to strengthen the ability anld accountability of public agencies to respond effectively and
efficiently to the needs of the rural population that makes up 87 percent of the poor in Guinea. Improving
the quality of service delivery in rural areas, through empowerment of local government and communities,
is key to poverty reduction because local communities have generally been poorly served by the central
bureaucracy.
2.    To support the long-term goal of this program, it is necessary to use a lending instrument which
has a comparable horizon. IDA financing of the program using the new Adaptable Program Lending
(APL) instrument will provide a credible long-term commitment while allowing flexibility to adjust
financing according to the size and scope of each phase. This approach will make it possible to review
program implementation in line with the lessons learned during each phase, and the changing country
context.
3.    The first phase of the program will initiate, in a limited number of sectors and geographical areas,
a process that will establish mechanisms for transferring resources and institutional accountability to
decentralized agencies and entities, and for strengthening the ability of rural communities to manage their
resources and take charge of their own needs. The second phase will expand these mechanisms to more
sectors and areas, and at the same time wil:l deepen the devolution process at the local level. In the third
phase, the program will move to cover the whole country and all sectors, and will expand the devolution
process to the prefecture level. At the end of the program, the administrative and fiscal decentralization
will be completed and the process of devolution will be sufficiently institutionalized to be self-sustaining
when the CBSDP phases out.



3
The Three Phases of the Program
Phase 1: FY 2000 - FY2003 - Implementation of Administrative and Fiscal Decentralization (US$ 21.0 Million)
Objectives: Implement administrative and financial decentralization to improve the accountability and capacity of local
governments and communities to deliver better services to the rural population; develop decentralized management systems at
prefecture and CRD levels; establish effective communication channels between service providers and beneficiaries; improve
leadership and management capabilities through extensive training; test performance-based incentives and initiate local
devolution processes.
Sites: 4 Prefectures in 4 regions, covering 24 rural development communities (CRDs).
Sectors: 4 sectors: Primary Education, Health, Rural Development and to a limited extent, Justice.
Expected Outcomes: Accountability of prefecture administration to CRDs and improved services in the four sectors through
adoption of best practices.
Phase 2: FY 2004 - FY 2007 - Completion of Devolution at CRD level (USS 55.0 Million)
Objectives: Apply best practices and lessons learned from Phase I with regards to administrative and financial decentralization;
deepen empowerment process and accountability of decentralized agencies to CRDs; continue to strengthen local capacity to
provide better services to rural population; mainstream performance-based incentives.
Sites: Expand to 12 more prefectures to a total of 16 prefectures, covering 60 CRDs.
Sectors: Expand to 3 more sectors to a total of 7 sectors.
Expected Outcomes: Strong management capabilities of CRD elected bodies and administrative apparatus and effective
accountability of decentralized agencies in the 16 prefectures, measured in terms of efficiency and transparency of service
delivery in the targeted sectors.
Phase 3: FY 2008 - 2011 - Expansion of Devolution Process to Prefectures (USS 75.0 Million)
Objectives: Consolidate the devolution process at CRD level and extend it to the prefectures; apply best practices and lessons
learned from Phase 1 and Phase 2 to improve service delivery in all sectors and prefectures and CRDs.
Sites: All 33 prefectures.
Sectors: All sectors.
Expected Outcomes: Rural poverty would be reduced by 70% of the baseline level, thanks to the indirect effects of improved
service delivery and community empowerment; lean, competent and motivated local govemments and agencies responsive to the
needs of the population and accountable to them.
4.      At the beginning of each phase, a baseline survey  will be carried out to determine the level of
community empowerment and quality of services provided in the concerned sectors and pilot
prefectures and CRDs. The selection of the pilot prefectures and CRDs will be made in coordination with
other sector projects, in particular the Village Community Support Project, to take advantage of the
synergy created by various decentralized institutional improvements.
B.      Project development objectives and Key Performance Indicators (see Annex IB)
5.      The project aims at increasing the effectiveness of service delivery in primary education, basic
health, rural development and paralegal services in four prefectures and 24 CRDs. This will be achieved
by transferring the necessary financial, technical and institutional capacity to local governments and
communities, and to move the prefecture administration from a command and control mode to a
facilitating and catalyst mode. With regard to justice, the project will support the training of paralegal staff
at the prefecture level and the definition of a reform program for the judicial sector.



4
6.     At the end of the four years, the following are the expected outcomes: (i) 30% increase in access
of the population to productive assets, and paralegal, social and physical services; (ii) 50% improvement
in the satisfaction of targeted population wilih the quality of the services they receive in these sectors; (iii)
50% of sector problems and constraints identified at the beginning of the program will be resolved at the
CRD level; (iv) 100 % of allocated sector budgets reach the service delivery level; (v) 100% of the
Imp6t Minimum de Developpement Local (IMDL) or Head Tax managed locally by CRDs; and (vi) 20 %
of project operating costs covered by national resources. At the end of each subsequent phase, it is
expected that an increase of 35% of project operating costs would be covered by national resources.
7.     On the process side, the following results are expected: (i) Prefecture Development Councils
(PDC) with members elected by local communities and a representative of the prefecture administration;
(ii) decentralized management systems at prefecture and CRD levels, with relevant staff properly trained
in leadership, organization and management, budgetary and accounting procedures, and in communication
and problem-solving through process facilitation; and (iii) successful testing of a performance incentive
system to reward quality services.
C.     Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
8.     CBSDP will be implemented over a 12-year period divided into three phases, beginning in
Government fiscal year 2000. In line with the flexible approach under APL, the actual duration of each
phase will depend on progress made. Subsequent credits will be extended in conformity with agreed
milestones. They will also be based on an updating and re-appraisal of each successive phase.
9.     Triggers and indicators have been developed to determine when certain milestones are reached.
Benchmarks against which to measure progress in service delivery in pilot prefectures and CRDs are
expressed in terms of both expected outcomes and processes.
Key Performaince Indicators and Triggers
Phase I        2000-2003 - US $ 21.0 million
Triggers and    .  At least a 30 %  increase of access of the population to productive, paralegal and social services,
benchmarks         and a 50% increase in their quality, compared to the baseline.
for assessing    .  At least 100% of operating fiunds allocated to the targeted sectors (education, health, rural
the program        development, justice) reach the service delivery level and 100% of the "Impot Minimum de
readiness to       Ddveloppement Local" (IMDL) managed locally by CRDs.
move to        *  At least 20 % of the project's operating costs are covered by national resources.
subsequent     .  A Prefecture Development Council, composed of elected representatives of local communities
phase              and a representative from the prefecture administration, will be established and operational, with
power to advise on cross-comlutnity development programs and budgets.
.  Effective decentralized management systems established and operational at the prefecture and
CRD levels, with adequate and competent staff and equipment, as certified by the annual
independent evaluations.
.  Participatory mechanisms fully operational at front-line service delivery structures, as certified by
the baseline study.
.  At least 50% of community problems (education, health, agriculture and justice) in the targeted
sectors resolved at CRD level.
.  The performance incentive system is established and its performance has been certified as
successful by the independent evaluations.



5
Phase II       2004-2007 - US $ 55.0 million
Triggers and    .  At least a 20 % increase in access to and 50% increase in the quality of the services delivered in the
benchmarks         3 additional sectors, 12 prefectures and 60 CRDs, as compared to the baseline.
for assessing    .  At least 100% of operating funds allocated to the three related sectors reach the service delivery
subsequent         level and 100% of the "Imp6t Minimum de Developpement Local" (1MDL) managed locally by
phase              CRDs.
*  At least 55 % of the project's operating costs are covered by national resources.
.  A Prefecture Development Council, composed of elected representatives from local communities, is
established in each of the 12 prefectures with power to decide on cross-community (prefecture)
programs and budgets.
*  Effective decentralized management systems operational at the prefecture and CRD levels, with
adequate and competent staff and equipment, as certified by independent evaluations.
.  Participatory mechanisms fully operational at front-line stuctures, as certified by the baseline study.
*  At least 75% of commnunity problems in the related sectors resolved at CRD level.
*  Successful mainstreaming of the performance incentive system.
Phase III      2008-2011- US$ 75.0million
Criteria for   *  At least a 20 % increase in access and a 50% increase in the quality of the services delivered in the
determining        remaining sectors, prefectures and CRDs, compared to the baseline.
whether the    a  At least an overall increase of 80% of access to and in quality of all services delivered to the rural
program is         population, as certified by the beneficiary survey.
successful     *  At least 100% of all operating funds allocated to the sectors reach the service delivery level and
100% of the "Impbt Minimum de Developpement Locar' (IMDL) managed locally by CRDs.
*  At least 90 % of all program operating costs are covered by national resources.
*  Prefecture Development Councils, composed of elected representatives from local communities, are
established in all prefectures with decision-making power over prefecture programs, budgets and
staffing.
*  Effective decentralized managemenit systems are operational in all prefecture and CRDs, with
adequate and competent staff and equipment, as certified by independent evaluations.
*  At least 90% of public agencies are under a performance-based incentive system.
*  At least 90% of the rural population is satisfied with the service delivery.
*  A competent elected body exists in each CRD; qualified staff paid out of CRD's own resources.
*  Participatory mechanisms effectively operational in all front-line sector structures.
II.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT
A.     Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal supported by the project (See Annex 1)
10.    The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on December 16, 1997, focuses
on three strategic priorities to achieve its goal of poverty reduction: (i) promoting broad-based sustainable
growth with a focus on the rural sector; (ii) improving social service delivery; and (iii) enhancing
governance and institutional capacity, with emphasis on empowering communities and local government.
11.    The proposed CBSDP fits the CAS framework in that it is an integral part of a decentralized three-
pronged approach to service delivery for poverty reduction. This approach includes: (i) alignment of



6
resources supported by a Public Expenditure Management Adjustment Credit (PEMAC) to ensure that
public expenditures do reflect developmenrt priorities; (ii) adaptation of service delivery to empower local
communities supported by cross-sector and integrated projects; and (iii) alignment of human and
institutional capacity. Hence, CBSDP builds the human and institutional foundation to sustain the
achievements of the PEMAC, completed in December 1998, and other ongoing operations and sector
activities, especially the Village Community Support Program (VCSP).
B.    Main sector issues and Government strategy
12.   From independence in 1958 through 1984, the State had a high degree of control over the
economy. This top-down approach resulted in economic stagnation and deterioration of basic
infrastructure, and reduced the availability and quality of social services, especially in rural areas. With the
advent of the Second Republic in 1984, a series of important institutional and policy reforms was adopted.
Economic reforms sought to stabilize the macro-economic environment, disengage the State from
production and commercial activities, liberalize markets and prices, and foster private sector growth.
Institutional reforms focused on revising the legal framework for decentralization and updating the
legislation pertaining to non-governmental organizations, cooperatives and other grassroots organizations.
13..   Largely due to these reforms, economic growth resumed at more than 4 percent per annum during
1986 -1990, and increased to 4.6 percent per annum since 1991, with per capita incomes growing at
annual rates of 1.2 to 1.8 percent. Stabilization and adjustment policies supported by the IMF and the
World Bank have helped reduce annual inflation from 37 percent in 1987 to less that 2 percent in 1997.
The budget deficit has also been reduced from 10 percent of GDP in 1986 to 7 percent in 1996, and the
balance of payments deficit dropped from 13 percent of GDP to less than 9 percent during the same
period. In addition, under the PEMAC, the Government has increased the allocation of operating budgets
to the four priority sectors from 25% of the total in 1997 to 30.5% in 1999.
14.   Despite these successes, social indicators continue to stagnate and the country's ranking in terms
of human development remains low, because of the following constraints:
(a) fragmented sector policies and programs, excessive concentration of decision-making at central
level, and limited capacity of local agencies at the prefecture and community levels, to provide
services to rural communities;
(b) insufficient resources at the service delivery level;
(c) weak participation  of local govermnent and communities in the identification, design and
management of development programs and in the mobilization of local revenues and the
management of community budgets;
(d) lack of motivation on the part of staff in central departments to work in rural areas; and the
(e) HIV/AIDS epidemic originally regarded as a health issue, but which has become a major
development constraint. Although Guinea is among the SSA countries with low HIV/AIDS
prevalence-2.09%-- infection AIDS is spreading among people between 15 and 49 years of age.
In Guinea, as elsewhere in Africa, HIV prevalence is not uniformly distributed, with a high rate
among females between the ages of 15 and 35, males between 15 and 49 years of age, commercial
sex workers, people with STD, and military personnel. Involuntary migration, war, poor education
and separation of families are catalysts of HIV infection. However, among men, HV infections
are also high for wealthy and well educated middle age groups. Campaigns have been organized
by the government and NGOs, with the support of extemal donors, to promote awareness on its
prevention. Notwithstanding these eflorts progress has been slow. This is partly due to the low
level of human, material and financial resources allocated to the health sector and the lack of an



7
adequate AIDS education and prevention strategy. Approaches that induce behavioral changes are
essential and this requires the active involvement of various sectors in the development process.
Among these capacity building, particularly in AIDS education and prevention at the national
prefecture and community level is key.
15.   To address the above constraints, the Government has committed to achieving full devolution of
functions to the CRDs. The Government also aims at achieving administrative and fiscal decentralization,
which is considered a prerequisite to the implementation of an effective devolution policy at the CRD
level. The key features of the administrative decentralization strategy are:
(a) establishing an effective funding mechanism that ensures the direct transfer of financial resources
from central government to the services in the front line;
(b) strengthening the accountability of government agencies to the ultimate beneficiaries and their
ability to deliver services to the rural communities;
(c) promoting genuine collaboration between service providers and beneficiaries in the resolution of
constraints to service delivery, and empowering local communities to take charge of their needs;
(d) making professional merit and service delivery performance key factors in determining rewards
and sanctions in public sector entities; and
(e) development of a multisectoral FLV/AIDS education and strategy and community based
HIV/AIDS intervention through the CDR and Village Community Support Programs.
C.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
16.   The CBSDP will directly address main sector issues by: (i) supporting the establishment of a
mechanism for direct transfer of budgetary and financial resources to the front line; (ii) decentralizing the
coordination of sector policies and programs to the prefecture and community levels, and strengthening
the accountability and ability of central and decentralized agencies to provide support and services to local
communities, (iii) involving beneficiaries and local communities in program design and implementation
by improving information services and communication with them; and (iv) introducing a performance
appraisal and incentive system to attract and reward high performing individuals and units at the CRD,
prefecture and central departnents.



8
III.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
A.      Project components
17.    The proposed project will include five components presented below with cost estimates. Details
are presented in Annex 2.
1:~~Cmonn                               C:egr            Inicaive:      %E of  -   Bak       % o2f Ba:nk-iDi: ;i:i |_
L Decentralizing public expenditures  Instititional anid          3.66      1743         3.47       94.69
management                           behavioral changes
IL Decentralizing institutional      Institutional and           9.14     43.50          7.98       87.30
accountability and capacity to local  behavioral changes
agencies and entities
m. Improving communication with the   Institutional and             .41      1.95          .36       87.80
beneficiaries                        behavioral changes
IV. Introducing a performance incentive  Institutional and        4.18      19.90         4.06       97.12
system                               behavioral changes
V. Project coordination & management                               3.61     17.19         3.13       86.70
Total                                              21.0       100         19.0        90.72
B.      Key Policy and Institutional Refor.nns Supported by the Project
18.    The project supports the main goals cf the National Development Strategy and the Government's
focus on reducing rural poverty. The devolution strategy described in the Government's Letter of Rural
Development Policy of December 30, 1998, involves the following reforms:
(i)    The re-focusing on rural communities, their local government authorities, community associations
and private institutions, with a view to (a) strengthening the skills, capacity, and resources of
rural communities so that they can respond to their needs; (b) establishing an operational
framework for consensus-building and collective decision-making, bringing together all the
players involved in community-based rural development, with an emphasis on vulnerable groups.
(ii)    The introduction  of sector policie s and  programs to  strengthen  community-based  rural
development with emphasis on cross-sector delivery integrating health, agricultural, infrastructure
and social sector policies and programs.
19.    To ensure that these reforms are effectively implemented and productive, CBSDP will carry out
the following administrative and financial reforms:
Revising and strengthening the institutional framework: Although the basic framework is in



9
place, there are gaps, ambiguities and inconsistencies among application texts that need to be clarified
and harmonized, especially in view of decentralizing service delivery. Additional texts will be needed to
clarify the roles of central and regional agencies in relation to those of prefectures and sub-prefectures, and
the roles of the latter in relation to those of decentralized entities at the rural community level.
Empowering local communities: While VCSP works to enhance the quality of representation of
the elected CRD councils, CBSDP seeks to help decentralized agencies at the prefecture and community
levels become responsive to the needs of local entities.
Financial decentralization: While VCSP seeks to reform the system of inter-governmental
transfers to broaden the fiscal base and improve tax collection at the CRD level, CBSDP will seek to help
set up appropriate mechanisms for direct transferring of fiscal and budgetary resources to the front line.
Improving accountability of administrative agencies. To remedy the lack of empathy and ability
to respond to the needs and demands of the rural population, CBSDP will initiate an extensive program of
education, information and training, and implement an incentive system geared toward rewarding
behavioral and institutional changes aimed at improving service delivery.
C.    Benefits, beneficiaries and target population
20.   Project financial and technical support will go primarily to agencies and entities at the prefecture
and CRD levels. Some benefits will go to the relevant units in the eight core and sector ministries (Plan,
Finance, Civil Service, Territorial Administration, Agriculture, Primary Education, Public Health, Justice)
which will be called upon to provide resources and technical support to local governments and
communities. Targeted beneficiaries will be the rural population, in particular users of services provided
by primary schools, health centers, rural development extension services and paralegal services in the 4
pilot prefectures and 24 CRDs located in the four natural regions. The ultimate beneficiaries of the project
are the rural poor.
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Project Coordination and Management (See Annex 2)
21.   Responsibility for project implementation is assigned to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for
Component I; the Ministry of the Territorial Administration and Decentralization for Components II and
III; and the Ministry of Employment and Civil Service for Component IV. A Project Inter-ministerial
Management Committee (PIMC), composed of representatives of implementing agencies, was established
on August 20, 1999 by an Arrete of the Prime Minister, as was a Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by the
Prime Minister, with the Planning Minister as vice-chairman, and composed of the heads of all eight
ministries concerned.
22.   PSC is responsible for overall program coordination and oversight, while day-to-day coordination
responsibility for project implementation rests with PIMC, which is chaired by the Minister of Territorial
Administration and Decentralization, assisted by the Project Administration Unit (PAU).
23.   PAU is responsible for (i) managing project funds; (ii) providing support to implementing
agencies; (iii) monitoring progress and evaluating project impact; (iv) serving as the technical secretariat
to PIMC; and (v) executing all procurement matters for all components. Details on the roles, organization
are described in Annex 2.



10
B.    Accounting, Financial Reporting2 and Auditing Arrangements (See Annex 8)
24.    A Special Account has been set up for the entire project, and is managed bv the PAU. Four
Advance Accounts, each not exceeding US$15,000 equivalent, will be established for the four pilot
prefectures to facilitate small payments of goods and services purchased at this level; other advance
accounts may be established later at the sub-prefecture level for the related CRDs as needed. Guidelines
for the functioning of the Special Account and Advance Accounts are described in the Financial and
Accounting section of the Project Operatioinal Manual.
25.    Project accounts will be audited annually by an internationally recognized firm under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Audit reports will be provided within six months of the close of the fiscal
year.
26.    The Government has agreed to set up appropriate financial management systems to produce
periodic reports on project implementation according to the disbursement procedures provided under the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). An action plan for setting up the new system within a
period of 18 months following credit effectiveness has been established. Meanwhile, project financial
management will follow the SOE-based model of other on-going Bank projects.
C.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
27.   A computerized project management system will be established to assist the Govemment to
monitor project physical and financial implementation at both the project and component levels. A
project Monitoring and Evaluation team (M&E) will be established. Working closely with the existing
National Division of Statistics (Direction Nationale de la Statistique) in the Planning Ministry, it will
assist the Project Administrator and advise implementing agencies on their own monitoring activities. It
will particularly be responsible for developing the program benchmarks and indicators as required, in
collaboration with related sector units.
28.    Project performance will be monitored under the supervision of the M&E team  by assessing the
quality of services delivered and progress achieved toward decentralization. An assessment of the level
and quality of services and of the institutional set-up in the four pilot prefectures will be carried out at the
beginning of the program, to serve as baseline.
29.    Evaluation will be carried out as an independent activity and contracted out to qualified
organizations, including universities and N(JOs, with the participation of the M&E team. Under the
guidance of the Project Inter-ministerial Management Committee, PAU will prepare the terms of
reference, contract for studies and surveys to assess the performance and impact of the project, and review
their implications for the design and adjustrment of the program. Evaluation will address both project
processes and impact and will systematically include assessments of beneficiary satisfaction.
30.   A joint Government-IDA mid-term re-view will take place by the end of the second year. During
this review, the progress toward the agreed benchmarks for key performance indicators will be assessed
and necessary changes will be decided.



11
V.   PROJECT RATIONALE
A.      Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
31.    Three other approaches have been considered for the program:
(a)    As part of a macro structural adjustment program, whose short time frame would not fit the time
requirement for institutional and behavioral changes;
(b)    Through a sector technical assistance prqject, which could not address the critical issues of cross-
sector coordination and linkage between area administration and functional field offices;
(c)     Through a traditional public sector refonn program, in which case the usual top-down approach
would not fit the service delivery focus and the decentralization policy.
By focusing on service delivery at the grassroots and concentrating on a small number of functional and
geographic areas, the project would not require excessive resource outlays and therefore have more
chance to succeed. To identify which approach would work best, four types of CRD settings will be
monitored (i) CRDs where both CBSDP and VCSP intervene together; (ii) CRDs where VCSP
intervenes alone; (iii) CRD where CBSDP intervenes alone, and (iv) CRDs where neither VCSP nor
CBSDP intervenes. The main focus of project interventions will be in CRDs where VCSP operates.
B.      Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies
S,,ss~e                       Praj~d        .      A      ~~ ~mi   -..... -.-.
Implementation        Development
Progress (IP)         Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed:
Re-allocation of operating budgets  Public Expenditure Management    Completed           HS
towards priority sectors (education,  Adjustment Credit (PEMAC)
health, road maintenance and rural
development).
Capacity building for local governance.  Village Community Support Project  Approved Feb. 23, 1999
Agriculture                        Agriculture Services            On-going
Village Community Sup. It      On-going
Population, Health and Nutrition   Health                          On-going
HealthiNutrition Sector        On-going
Pop. & Reproduction Health     Approved on Dec. 1,
1998
Education                          Education for All               Planned
Pre-Service Teacher Education  Completed
Legal and regulatory framework.    Judicial Capacity Building Project   Planned



12
Other Development Agencies:
French Development Agency         Institutional support to       On-going
decentralization
CIDA                              Institutional support to technical  Planned
education
EU                               Institutional support to secondaxy    On-going
town.s
UNDP                              Support to local initiatives   On-going
USAID                             Democracy and governance       On-going
program
IP/DO  Ratings:   HS  (Highly  Satisfactory); S  (Satisfactory); U  (Unsatisfactory); HU  (Highly
Unsatisfactory).
C.     Lessons learned and reflected in project design
32.    Experience shows that institutional reforms require steadfast political commitment and high
quality leadership, as well as  strong ownership by beneficiaries and other stakeholders. In addition,
effective service delivery requires well-targeted programs and decentralized implementation with clear
performance indicators and benchmarks. Collaboration and effective coordination among donors are also
crucial.
33.    The project design has incorporated these lessons. Over 1,200 beneficiaries and service providers,
elected officials, and NGOs operating in the four CRDs of the prefectures of Coyah and Mamou, as well
as officials from eight ministries, two regions and two prefectures have participated in the preparation of
the project. Two separate visits with key donors were made to identify areas of common interest and
possible avenues for collaboration in the field. A meeting with national non-governmental associations to
exchange information on activities and identify potential joint actions, and preliminary proposals for
institutional reorientation were discussed with senior ministry officials at an inter-ministerial workshop
in February 1999. Extensive reviews of project actions and implementing arrangements were also carried
out during the May - June 1999 pre-appraisal mission, with officials of concerned central, regional and
local agencies. A donors' meeting was organized on August 13, 1999 to review the conclusions of the
appraisal mission.
D.     Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
34.    In its Letter of Decentralization Policy (Annex IA), the Government states its commitment to
decentralize budgetary decisions, to improvie the accountability of prefecture agencies and empower the
CRD entities in order to improve the delivery of public services. Key actions planned are: (i) a direct
transfer of budgetary resources of high priority sectors to the front line, (ii) upgrading the professional
qualifications of prefects and introducing participatory decision-making; (iii) re-structuring the mandate
and structure of the Prefecture Developnment Council to become an elected body representing the
interests of CRDs; and (iv) implementation of a performance-based incentive system to improve service
delivery and responsiveness to the needs of t;he rural population.



13
E.    Value added of IDA Support
35.    Constraints and challenges to the effective delivery of public services have so far been handled in
a centralized and uncoordinated fashion within sector ministries or donor-driven institutional mechanisms.
This piece-meal approach has not brought significant and sustained results despite substantial
investments. The proposed CBSD project wvill address the key institutional weaknesses and create an
operating platform in which all other sector initiatives can fit in. Given the positive role it has played,
using the participatory and bottom-up approach in defining the Country Assistance Strategy, its
experience with the implementation of the Public Expenditures Adjustment Credit and with the
decentralization of service delivery under VCSP, IDA is in a better position to assist Government in
undertaking this institutional challenge. The Government is counting on IDA to be a central player in its
capacity building program.
VI.   SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
A.    Economic
36.    The proposed project, oriented toward capacity building, does not lend itself to detailed cost-
benefit analysis and rate of return calculations. Nevertheless, because the project supports the
improvement of public services, it is expected to have a positive net social and economic impact for
poverty reduction.
B.    Financial
37.   The fiscal impact of the project on both central and local government budgets would be measured
in terms of non-wage net expenditures and revenues at the front line. In absolute terms, there should be no
significant change in the amount of public finances during the project's life. Instead, decentralization and
local community participation in public investments are expected to have a positive impact on the quality
of public expenditures, including reduction of rent situations and related opportunity for corruption. A
shift of responsibility from central departments to the front line, even if the overall amount remains the
same would improve the impact. In addition, by helping the beneficiaries improve their prospects of
increasing local incomes, the project would contribute to improving the financial benefits, which would
largely offset any initial negative impact on central government's budget.
C.    Technical
38.    Under the project, new concepts and best practices in institutional and behavioral changes in the
public and private sectors would be introduced. Extensive process facilitation, staff education, on-the-job
training with short-term technical assistance, study visits to other countries, and systematic in-country
training will be provided. Whenever required and feasible, training of trainers will be carried out.
D.    Institutional
39.   Development projects often rely on specific project units, which, after project life, stand
conspicuously out of the institutional mainstream. The proposed project is designed to fit the existing
implementation capacity of public agencies in Guinea at both central and field levels. Since four core and
four line agencies will be involved in implementation, coordination will be the key for a successful
execution of project activities. A Project Operational Manual has been prepared to help implementing
agencies with management procedures and guidelines. Where specific organizational weaknesses require



14
support, short-term consulting services will be provided. In addition, by the planned effectiveness date of
CBSD, both the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Territorial Administration will have gained
additional experience through the implementation of VCSP.
E.    Social
40.    Since the beneficiaries of the project are the rural population, the project has been designed to
ensure that all four natural regions are covered. The proposed CBSDP takes special interest in eliciting
and supporting the participation of members of all different social groups, particularly the vulnerable
groups (e.g., women, youth, minority ethnic groups) in decision-making, through extensive information
and communication with beneficiaries, and the requirement that local committees include members of
those groups.
F.    Environmental
41.    The proposed project is primarily an institutional capacity building operation and therefore no
adverse environmental impact is foreseen. In accordance with the Association's operational directives on
environmental assessments (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in category C and
does not require an environmental assessment.
G.    Participatory Approach
-I       ldentiicatioPrepat"ion2  pilm-entation:
Beneficiaries, Service providers  COL                         COL
NGOs, business, communities    COL                            COL
Academic Institutions          CON                            COL
Local Govemnment               COL                            COL
Central Governiment            COL                            COL
Other Donors                   CON                            COL
COL=Collaboration, CON=Consultation
Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Grqyp'
42.   In preparing the CAS, the Government initiated a bottom-up consultative process in its
formulation of the National Development Strategy. This involved over 3,000 consultations with
beneficiaries and other stakeholders from civil society, village communities and women's groups in all
four natural regions of the country. The design of this project has also involved active participation by
rural communities, local governments, NGOs, officials of sub-prefectures, prefectures, regional authorities
and central units of the eight ministries involved.
43.    Consultation has been extended through a collective problem-solving facilitation process, which
is now being used by service providers and beneficiaries at the front line to identify and remove
constraints affecting service delivery. It will continue to be used during project implementation. In
addition, the results of periodic evaluation studies will be reviewed by all stakeholders.



15
VII. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
A.      Sustainability
44.     The project attempts to create the conditions for sustainability by: (a) developing in beneficiaries
and service providers an ability to work together to resolve the problems and constraints, thereby reducing
costs and enhancing local self-confidence; (b) setting up a systematic mechanism for direct transfer of
budgetary and fiscal resources to local governments; (c) improving the revenue collection capabilities of
prefectures and CRDs; and (d) implementing an affordable performance incentive system.
B.      Critical Risks
(Reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex IB):
Risk                          Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Possibility of policy reversal                             M       a)  The implementation of policy decisions
will be monitored by a Steering
Committee chaired by the Prime
Minister.
b)  Emphasis on building broad-based
support for reforms through
participation.
Sudden deterioration in the security and political situation,  M   IDA closely monitors the situation in Liberia
partly resulting from disturbance elsewhere in the sub-region      and Sierra Leone.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
Resistance on the part of some officials and civil servants who  M  a) Implementing an incentive system
want to keep the status quo;                                       b) Involving sector ministries in design and
Uncoordinated actions among donors and IDA projects                implementation
c) Organizing joint government-donor
program planning in project areas
d) Developing local governments ability to
coordinate donor activities
Limited availability of resources                          S       Maintain close contact with the IMF to
ensure adequate resources mobilization and
allocation.
Legislative acts and executive orders slow to be taken by  M       The Prime Minister chairs the Steering
relevant authorities                                               Committee.
Budget and resources for supervision will be insufficient to  M    Special supervision arrangements made and
assist implementing agencies in responding to requirements         budget provided, including possible funding
arising from such an innovative program                            through donors.
Overall Risk Rating                                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



16
C.    Potential Controversial Aspects
45.   The CBSDP preparation process has been highly participatory. As a result, the risk of unforeseen
controversial aspects has been reduced. Nevertheless, two key issues remain:
(a) Given a history of centralized decision-making, it will take substantial time and effort to change the
command and controi mentality into one of facilitator and catalyst. The project will provide
opportunities for key officials to gain awareness and confidence in effecting behavior and
organizational changes, through (i) extensive exposure, and coaching, to relevant governance
concepts and experiences, (ii) exchange of ideas and sharing of experiences regarding change; and (iii)
appropriate rewards for successful changes.
(b) The difficulty to forego rent-seeking behavior in the civil service. The project relies on existing
agencies to carry out project activities, and creates conditions for sustained impact. Yet, a major
constraint is the reluctance of staff to work in rural areas. Under the project, (i) implementing
agencies will assume project activities as regular responsibilities; (ii) a systematic performance
appraisal system will be established to monitor their contribution; (iii) appropriate incentives will be
designed; and (iv) a limited number of qualified young cadres will be contracted to work in rural
areas.
VIII. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
A.    Conditions for Board Presentation
46.   The Government of Guinea has submitted a signed letter of decentralization policy ("Lettre de
Politique de Deconcentration et de Decentralisation ') satisfactory to IDA.
B.    Conditions for Effectiveness
(a) the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited in it an initial amount of
US$300,000 equivalent as counterpart funds for the first year of the project;
(b) the Borrower has adopted the Project Operational Manual, in forn and substance satisfactory to
IDA;
(c) the Borrower has appointed independent auditors to carry out annual audits of project accounts,
with terms of reference and under conditions acceptable to IDA;
(d) the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and accounting system,
satisfactory to IDA; and
(e) the Borrower has appointed the Project Administrator and key staff of the Project Adrninistration
Unit with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA.
C.    Conditions for Disbursement of Perfor-mance Grants and Performance Award under the
Sustainable Performance In Service Deliver' Fund
The Borrower has:
(a) established a perfornance appraisal and incentive system satisfactory to IDA, including the
creation of the Sustainable Performance In Service Delivery Fund (SPISDF) with criteria and
standards for distribution and a legal, institutional framework and a manual of operating
procedures satisfactory to IDA; and
(b) deposited an amount of US$50,000 equivalent as contribution to SPISDF.



17
D.    Assurances Obtained at Negotiations
The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a) the Borrower will deposit to the Project Account, following the initial amount of US$300,000
equivalent as counterpart fund for the first year of the project, an amount equivalent to
US$275,000 every six months thereafter to cover recurrent costs of project annual work program;
(b) the Borrower will funmish to IDA: (i) by December I of each year, the draft budget for the next
Project Year; and (ii) by February 15 of each year, an annual report setting forth the results of
project implementation during the preceding period;
(c) the Borrower will carry out with IDA: (i) by March 15 of each year, an annual review of the
project to assess the progress made during the previous year, determine appropriate actions, and
define the work program for the following year; and (ii) by March 15, 2002, a mid-term review of
the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, with the participation of relevant non-
governmental organizations and Project beneficiaries;
(d) The Borrower will manage the project according to the principles and procedures described in the
Project Operational Manual, and any modifications thereof will have to be agreed by IDA;
(e) the Borrower will maintain the Project Steering Committee, the Inter-ministerial Management
Committee and the Project Administration Unit throughout the project implementation period,
with membership, functions and key staff at all times satisfactory to IDA. Any change of the
Project Administrator will have to be agreed by IDA;
(f) the Borrower will adopt, by August 31, 2000, a performance incentive system, with criteria and
standards for grants and awards distribution, and a legal and institutional framework and
operating procedures of the Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery Fund, acceptable to
IDA; and
(g) the Borrower will take necessary actions to adapt measures and implement actions indicated in the
Letter of Decentralization Policy.
E.    Readiness for Implementation
(a) The four-year program implementation plan, including the first year program and budget, has
been prepared; and
(b) The procurement plan for the first year activities is completed.



18
F.    Compliance with Bank Policies
The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Task Team Leader!
Task Manager:       Rudy   i  gu
[signature]        Ii
Sector Manager:    ir      . Levy
[signature]          M     o Dia
Country Director:    Mamao Dia



19
Annex IA: Letter of Decentralization Policy
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
LETTER OF DECENTRALIZATION POLICY
Deepening the decentralization processes and strengthening the legitimacy of the State
for a better delivery of public services to the rural population



20
INTRODUCTION
Economic and social progress greatly depends onl the Government's economic policy and on the quality of
public services provided to the population. For this reason, the Government endeavors to improve public
service performance and to promote the citizens' participatioii in order to better serve the beneficiaries at
the grassroots. The Intemational Development Association (IDA) is joining forces in this effort and is
intending to support the Government through the financing of a program of capacity building for
improved service delivery in three phases over a 12-year period. The first phase is the program is the
Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project (CBSDP).
This Letter on Administrative Decentralization Policy is prepared under the auspices of this pilot project.
II.    CONTEXT
The advent of the Second Republic, on April 03, 1984, marked a radical change in the State/Citizen
relationship and in the way the country's social and economic development was promoted and managed.
The all-powerful and omnipresent State had to yield to a <(State in the service of developmentv>, operating
as a partner with the civil society, in the framework of a liberal economic environment, through
decentralized and contractual planning, and whose relationships had to be govemed by the provisions of a
law-abiding State. A series of economic policy and institutional reforms was adopted in order to
materialize this new vision.
In the area of economic reforms, the main achievements are: (i) the liberalization of the economy; (ii) the
setting up of a legal framework for a market economy, and (iii) the restoration of the key macro-
economic balances. Inflation was brought down from 38% per year in 1987 to 2% in 1997; the budget
deficit has gone from 9.8% of the GDP in 1986 down to 7.2% in 1996, and the deficit of current accounts
has been reduced from 13.4% of the GDP in 1988 down to 8.9% in 1995. Furthermore, these reforms have
promoted economic growth, as the GDP in real terms increased by an average of 4% per year since 1986,
and by 4.6% since 1991. Additional macro-economic policy and budgetary reforms have been pursued
since 1996 and have brought positive results, notably in the private sector, which has shown very
encouraging progress.
In the area of institutional reform, the decentralization policy, adopted in 1985, and deepened since 1992,
has allowed:
(i)   the setting up of decentralized entities in urban areas (38 urban communes, and the city of
Conakry with a special status), and in rural areas (303 development rural communities all over the
country);
(ii)    a growing involvement of these decentralized entities in local development.
The statutory framework of associations has also been updated by allowing a greater freedom of
association and by simplifying their organization and operation, which has accounted for the proliferation
of non-governmental associative structures at the grassroots.
Despite these achievements, the results in terns of the fight against poverty and of improving the citizens'
standard of living, particularly that of the roiral populations, remain problematic. Poverty indicators are
hardly improved, with nearly 40% of the population living at the threshold of absolute poverty. Thus,



21
economic performance remains fragile, because of persistent institutional constraints of which the most
severe stem from the weaknesses of public administration itself,
III.   CONSTRAINTS
The retrospective study of achievements reveals that the primary obstacle to the pursuing of a self-
propelling and balanced development lies in excessive centralization of the decision-making power and
resources, and weak capacity of rural communities to manage their own resources and affairs as well as to
make their needs known at the level of the local administration.
An action- research conducted in April 1998 in a number of prefectures, sub-prefectures and development
rural communities in Lower and Middle Guinea have revealed that these areas' population enormously
suffers from lack of access to effective public services, because of:
(1) poor communication between public service providers and their beneficiaries;
(2) limited cooperation between the different technical services of the prefecture administration;
(3) lack of financial and human resources ; and
(4) lack of criteria and standards of performance, of technical support and systematic monitoring by
central departments.
Thus the decentralized entities at the communal level have not been able to receive the support and the
encouragement necessary to develop their own governance capacity.
IV.   GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES
To ensure a balanced and durable development, it is imperative that rural communities be capable of
providing for their own needs, which requires initially financial support from the central government and
technical support from the prefecture administration.
In the Community Development Policy Letter dated December 30, 1998, the Government already
pronounced itself in favor of decentralization actions and their implementation at the level of rural
communities. The implementation of these actions is supported by the ongoing Village Community
Support Program.
By this Development Policy Letter, the Government is committing itself to rapidly and effectively achieve
real decentralization.
Such a policy was underlined, in clear terms and without ambiguity, by the President of the Republic, in
his inauguration speech on January 29, 1998. In presenting the main themes of the government program
for the new five-year term, the President asserted that he would see to:
* improving the quality and the effectiveness of public services;
*  a deepening of decentralization; and
* training and the perfecting of economic operators.
This commitment by the President of the Republic, which embodies the strategic objectives of the
National Development Plan (Guxine 1 'an 2010), is reasserting once again the Govemrnent's fundamental



22
concem about providing quality public services to the population and the vital importance given to
pursuing the ongoing decentralization policy.
To achieve the assigned objectives, the Government is committing itself to undertaking and strengthening
reform measures in the following areas:
1. Pursue in earnest the decentralization policy started at the level of rural communities and urban
communes. The idea is to provide these communities with sufficient decision-making capacity to
allow them to manage their own needs and resources, and to represent the interests of the community
vis-a-vis local governments.
2. Implement a decentralization policy, especially at the level of the prefecture administration, which
consists firstly in transferring financial and budgetary resources to rural communities and to
prefectures to help these entities meet the population's needs.
3. Improve communication and create consultation and representatipn mechanisms to allow public
service beneficiaries and rural community representatives to participate in the decision-making
process conceming community affairs.
4. Set-up an appraisal and incentive syste:m to reward deserving performance by entities and individuals
in terms of public service delivery.
To put this strategy into practice, the Govern ment is setting up a 12-year reform program, with a four-year
pilot phase during which diverse advocated measures will be applied in a number of locations and sectors,
with the goal of eventually extending successful experiences to the entire country and to other sectors. The
dates scheduled for the adoption of specific, actions relating to the implementation of these measures are
indicated below.
V.    KEY FEATURES OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE DECENTRALIZATION POLICY
The devolution must subscribe to the principle of uniqueness and faimess of the State at all levels. It must
guarantee the coherence of sector and global policies of the State while promoting the openness to the
opinions and needs of the population through deliberative councils and representative bodies as governed
by the law.
The main lines of implementation of the devolution policy must adequately respond to these concerns.
They relate as well to the roles to be assigned to different administrative levels, and the provision of
financial and human resources, as to the organization and management systems of these decentralized
governments and entities.
A.-   Roles of the Administration
The Government is committing itself to review the existing institutional framework in order to clarify and
adapt the roles of the different levels of the administration according to the effectiveness of service
delivery and to the decentralization requirements. At the end of a reflection and consultation process with
concerned agencies and entities, a text will be adopted not later than June 30, 2000, to materialize the new
vision, whose main elements are outlined below.



23
1. The Sub-Prefecture Administration
As the third and last level of administration, the sub-prefecture is the local setting for the implementation
of the State's development policies and administrative actions. As such, the Sub-Prefect is the guarantor
of the respect by the communities of the republican rules and regulations and coordinates the activities of
public agencies operating on his territory, so that community needs for their services are adequately met.
To improve the effectiveness of the coordination action of the sub-prefects, a study will be initiated to
identify various options and their implications with a view to extend the area of each sub-prefecture to
include more than one CRD. A government decision will be taken to this end not later than June 30, 2000.
2. The Prefecture Administration
As the second level and pivotal point of the decentralization policy, the prefecture administration ensures
the implementation of national policies and programs in its territory. As such, the Prefect represents both
the Government and each of the ministers. He looks after the application of legal texts and regulations,
while ensuring their adaptation to the needs of the population and to the particular conditions of his
territory. He is responsible for the well-being of the population living in his territory and is accountable to
the central government as well as to the representatives of local communities for the quality of services
provided by the prefecture agents.
To help the Prefect assume his role of rural development catalyst, a Development Prefectural Council
(CPD) will be established, comprising members elected by the local communities and assuming the role
of a deliberative body, with consultative or decision-making powers depending on the economic and
social conditions of the communities. A statutory text will be adopted not later than July 30, 2000, to
modify the present provisions in line with the mandate and the composition of the CPD.
Moreover, considering the vital role that the Prefect plays in the coordination of the implementation of the
development policies and programs in his territory, the Government will see to it, in the selection of
candidates for that position, that professional competence criteria are given preeminence. An official text
to that effect will be adopted not later than April 30, 2000.
3. The Regional Administration
As the first decentralized level, the regional administration is in charge of monitoring the implementation
of national policies and programs by the prefectures falling under its purview. In this connection, it
ensures the coordination of inspection and of technical support provided to the prefectural administration
by central departments.
4. The Central Administration
The central administration assumes a role of orientation, promotion, support and control toward all
decentralized administrations. Thus, this role includes firstly the definition and the diffusion of functional
criteria and technical norms relating to different national programs, and to the regulations, that the
decentralized administrations are in charge of implementing. The central administration must also monitor
the application of these criteria and norms by the decentralized agencies and provide technical support
together with necessary resources and means.



24
Through a participatory process with concerned agencies and entities, the central administration
determines the missions and the organization of decentralized agencies at the regional, prefecture and sub-
prefecture levels. It evaluates needs, mobilizes means, and provides resources to the decentralized entities,
for investment as well as for recurrent cDsts, either in the form of grants, or through a revenue sharing
scheme.
The central administration assumes its responsibilities with regard to policy formulation, implementation
monitoring and their articulation at every level, as well as the harmonization and coordination of all sector
programs both at the level of the regions and that of the prefectures. It exercises its responsibilities as a
facilitator and a coordinator.
B.-    The provision of financial and human resources
The CRDs and the prefectures have each at their disposal their own budget, which is funded by their own
revenues and by grants from the national buidget.
The Government is committing itself to transfer directly to CRDs the totality of the returns from thelmp6t
Minimum de Developpement Local (Head Tax), starting in January 2001 for the pilot prefectures, and to
take necessary steps, including the adjusting of the budgetary classification, to ensure autonomy of
management by CRDs. In this context, a statutory text indicating the modalities for the transfer,
management and control of the use of these resources will be adopted by relevant authorities not later than
July 30, 2000.
The Government is also committing itself to provide the prefecture administration with adequate
budgetary and human resources and with authority over the different technical and mixed agencies that are
operating in its territory. This authority ancl these means are provided on the basis of program proposals
for activities justified according to the population 's needs. A performance-based budgeting system will be
set up at the level of prefectures and CRDs, not later than October 31, 2000.
A staff training plan and a contractual personnel recruiting plan to staff vacant key positions at the local
level will be prepared in order to improve the capabilities of the agencies and entities involved.
Government intends to establish such plans not later than May 31, 2000.
C.-   Implementation of appropriate organization and management systems
In the area of organization and management, the following principles will be respected:
1. The structures of decentralized agencies must not be simple replicas of the central level. While
respecting the overall pattern and the hierarchical lines, they must have their own organization and
capacities. To this effect, a system of planning and programming of inter-sector activities will be
established at the level of the prefecture not later than August 3 0, 2000.
2. The prefecture administration will be given the authority to coordinate the activities of the diverse
decentralized agencies and the local entities which operate in the prefecture territory. A statutory text
with regard to the delegation of certain decisions conceming the administrative and financial
management of the technical staff operating in the prefectures will be adopted not later than June 30,
2000, in order to allow prefecture authorities to achieve a better coordination of technical services to
CRDs and to the population.



25
3. Administrative and financial management systems (e.g., budget and assets management,
communication and information systems) will be set up at the level of prefectures and communities
not later than August 31, 2000, to ensure transparent management and effective use of resources.
4. A system of incentives to the best performances will be introduced in order to reward deserving
individuals and organizational units at three levels, central, prefecture and rural community, on the
basis of services provided. The definition of such a system is scheduled for August 31, 2000.
The allocation of resources to support the pilot project will facilitate the progressive introduction of the
expected changes. At the beginning, the four prefectures of Coyah, Mamou, Faranah and Macenta and
three priority sectors, Primary Education, Basic Health, and Rural Development, and to some extent
Justice, will benefit from project support.
The results, in terms of improving the quality of public services and the governance capacity of the
communities, will be assessed at the end of four years. If the results are positive, the changes will be
gradually extended to all prefectures and sectors, so that, by the end of the 12-year period, the same
procedures are applied to the entire country.
Performance indicators in every field will be set up at the begimning of the pilot phase to serve as a basis
for the evaluation of the results at the end of the program. These performance indicators will attest to the
progress and success of the program, and thus justify the passing to the next phase.
VI.  POLITICAL COORDINATION AND RESPONSIBILITY SHARING
1. Devolution and Decentralization Inter-Ministerial Committee
The Government assumes general responsibility for the implementation of this policy through a
Devolution and Decentralization Inter-Ministerial Committee, placed under the authority of the Prime
Minister. This committee will promote the application of the legal provisions, the coordination between
decentralization and devolution policies, the orientation of related actions and programs, the transfer of
resources to the front lines and the monitoring of implementation and the evaluation of results. This
Committee is supported by a Technical Management Committee made up of competent representatives
from the departments responsible for the implementation of refonn actions.
The responsibilities for implementation, monitoring and evaluation of refonn activities in various
functional areas under the pilot project will be assumed by the Ministries of Territorial Administration and
Decentralization, Plan and Cooperation, Economy and Finance, Employment and Public Service, as well
as by the related sector Ministries in accordance with their interventions at the local level.
2. The Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization
The Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization is in charge of the implementation of the
Government policy in the area of devolution and decentralization. It is responsible for the coordination of
efforts of other ministries in the context of the Technical Management Committee and will submit a
periodic report to the Devolution and Decentralization Inter-Ministerial Committee on the results achieved
in terms of improving the quality of services and of developing the govemance capacity of rural
communities.



26
Moreover, this Ministry is in charge of promoting and monitoring the execution of actions relating to the
review of the institutional framework, to the implementation of organization and management systems at
the prefecture and CRD levels, and to the improving of the selection criteria of the prefectures' senior
staff..
3. The Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
The Ministry of Planning is in charge of the orienltation of the rationalization efforts of the development
policies and strategies, of the selection of public investment projects at the grassroots, and of the
evaluation of their impact. It provides technical support to decentralized administrations, in areas
concerning project identification and analysis as well as the collection and the management of statistical
data relating to performance indicators. It will have to participate in the implementation of the
Government policy on human and institutional capacity building in line with the national capacity
building initiative (PACT).
4. The Ministry of Economy and Finance
The Ministry of Economy and Finance nnust better consider the needs at the grassroots through a fair
allocation of significant budget resources to decentralized communities and the ones under devolution,
and ensure that allocated resources reach the grassroots. It will also see to it that the spending procedure --
commitment, authorization of payment, liquidation and actual payment -- is simplified and shortened,
while ensuring effective control and transparency in the use of resources by local entities and the
decentralized agencies.
The measures concerning the transfer of" resources to the CRDs and the improvement of budgetary
management systems are the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
5. The Ministry of Employment and Public Service
The Ministry of Employment and Public Service is in charge of defining the criteria and norms relating to
the administrative organization and to the utilization of the State employees, and of taking care of their
application. In this connection, it is required to provide technical support in the search for structures,
procedures and staffing susceptible of brirging a substantial and lasting improvement to public service
delivery. In collaboration with the involved ministries, the Ministry of Employment and Public Service
sets up performance criteria and norms to be promoted in the context of the reform program, for each one
of the three levels: (i) central and regional, (ii) prefecture and sub-prefecture, and (iii) community and
host structure.
It will also propose the different categories and forms of incentives as well as the procedures of award and
management for the Performance Incentive Fund, which is a fund set forth in the framework of the pilot
project to test the validity of proposed incentive measures.
6. Related Sector Ministries
The other Ministries, notably Agriculture, Pre-University Education, Health, and to some extent Justice,
will have to ensure, during the pilot project phase, that their intervention at the grassroots is in keeping
with the standpoint outlined in the present Letter. Furthermore, they will see to it that these interventions
are progressively improved through a more adequate technical support, and of the harmnonizing of these



27
actions with those of other interventions in the same sector, as well as with those in other sectors, in order
to optimize the limited resources and intensify the impact.
The delegation to the prefecture authorities of the decisions relating to certain acts of management of
technical staff is part of the responsibilities of these ministries.
VII. OPERATING PLAN AND MONITORING
The ultimate objective pursued by the decentralization and devolution policy is to render local
communities capable of taking charge of themselves in the long run, in order to reduce poverty and
improve the well-being of the population.
The Government will do all in its power to induce the concerned ministries, through the strategies and
actions formulated in this Letter, to pursue the reflections, each in its sector, and to prepare a plan of
operations to implement these actions as part of the pilot project. Reports on the monitoring and
evaluation of the results of these actions will be periodically submitted to the appreciation of the Council
of the Ministers.
Signed by:
El H.TH.M. Cellou DIALLO
Minister of Plan and Cooperation
Conakry, Guinea
November 9, 1999



28
Annex 113: Project Design Summary
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
Narrative Summary             Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goals:             1.  Improvement in key       *   Poverty studies and   *   Political stability
Reduce poverty, promote sustainable       poverty indices (e.g.        surveys             *   No heavy influx of
growth, and increase the well-being of    increase rural GDP per   *   Annual UNDP             refugees causing
the rural population through improving    capita, :food security,      Human                    economic crisis and
the delivery of public services and the   literacy, incidence of       Development              social unrest
empowerment of local institutions and     disease, infant and child    Reports
communities                               mortaliy)                *   National statistics
2.  Mobilization of national    *   National and local
and local resources for      budgets
rural development
Long-term Development Objectives:    I . At least 70% of central    *   National and local   *   Government remains
*   Strengthen centralized and            governrment budgetary        budgets tracking        committed to
decentralized administrative system   allocations to sectors go    *   Surveys of          decentralization and
to provide effective public services  to the rural communities     beneficiaries and       empowerment of
to the rural population          2.  90% of public agencies        service providers       rural communities
*   Empower local institutions to take    are under a performance-   *   Annual project    *   More progressive and
charge of their own needs            based appraisal system        reports                 proactive non-
3.  50% increase in the      e   Project reviews and     goverrunental sector.
quality of services          evaluation studies
Phase 1: Putting in place a decentralized  provided
service delivery system and community   4.  70% of local programs
empowerment plan in four pilot            originate from and funded
prefectures involving 24 CRDs and         by local communities
focusing on four sectors --- education,    5.  20% of the program
health, rural development and justice;    recurrent costs are
testing a decentralized performance       financed by national
incentive system                          resources
Phase H1: Extending the decentralized
service delivery system to 12 other
prefectures involving 60 CRDs and
focusing on three additional sectors;
deepening the community empowerment
processes and implementing the
performance incentive system
Phase III: consolidating the decentralized
service delivery system and the local
empowerment processes; extending their
application to the remaining 17
prefectures and 207 CRDs and focusing
on the remaining sectors; completing the
decentralization processes at the CRD
and prefecture levels.
Project Objective:                    By the end of the 4t year
Set-up and implement an administrative   1.  30% increase in access to   *   VCSP and other  *   Government
and financial decentralization system to  productive assets,           sector progress and      committed to
deliver better public services to rural   paralegal, social and        impact reports           institutional and
communities and to empower local          physical services        *   Citizen satisfaction     behavioral changes



29
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
elected entities                       2.  50% improvement in the         surveys              *   Cooperation and
quality of services       *   External financial       support from donors
provided                      audits                    and other Bank sector
3.  50% of sector problems    *   Periodic reports by       projects
and constraints identified    CRDs and service
at the front line are         providers
resolved between          *   Mid-term and end of
beneficiaries and service     Phase I evaluations
providers and by the local
elected entities at CRD
level.
Project Components
Project Outputs
1.  70% of budgetary          *   National and local    *   GOG committed to
I.- Decentralizing public expenditure      resources allocated to         budgets                  transfer budgetary
management to ensure adequate and           priority sectors is       *   Semester and              and fiscal resources
timely funding of public services at the   transferred directly to the    annual progress          to delivery point and
front line                                  service delivery front line   reports and               communities
and CRDs                      evaluations          *   Resources available
2.  Guidelines for multi-year   *   Budget tracking
programming (MTEF) and        surveys
bottom-up performance
budgeting established
3. 20% of project operating
costs covered by national
resources
4.  Prefecture and CRD staff
capable of preparing,
implementing and
monitoring their budgets,
as certified by
idendent evaluators.
II. Decentralizing institutional        1.  Legislative and executive   *   Texts passed by     *   Legislation adopted
accountability and capacity for service     orders related to             National Assembly    *   Executive orders
delivery to local agencies and              decentralization process      and/or signed by          issued by relevant
communities                                 reviewed, updated, and        relevant authorities      authorities
passed by the National    *   Manuals of
I .  Revise the roles, structures, and     Assembly if required           procedures
staffmg pattern of central         2.  Key staff in relevant      *   Training reports
departments, regional authorities,     departments and units      *   Periodic progress
prefecture administration and CRDs     trained in new roles           reports
to support the decentralization    3.  Decentralized service
strategy                               delivery and management
2.  Strengthen the ability of central       systems set up at
departments, sector agencies,          prefecture and CRD levels
regional authorities, prefecture   4.  Key staff in relevant
administration to support and to be    sectors and decentralized
accountable to local communities.      services and entities
3.  Strengthen the capacity of CRDs to     trained in leadership and
provide services to rural populations  management for
and to represent their interests at the  decentralization
Prefecture Development Council.    5.  Prefecture Development
Councils established and
fully operational, as



30
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
certified by the baseline
study
IV. Introducing a performance-based  I.  Manual of procedures    *   Surveys of service    *   GFOG committed to
incentive system                         established for the         providers              institutionalize a
Sustainable Performance   *  Periodic reports and   reward system based
In Service Delivery Fund    evaluations             on service delivered
2.  10% of this Fund,       *   Manuals of              performance
provided by the             procedures
counterpart budget has  *  National budget
been paid.
Project Components, Sub-components:  Project Inputs              *   Financial reports
and audits
I.- Decentralizing public expenditure  1.- US$3.66million        *   CBSDP progress
management                                                           reports
*   Annual budget and
work program
*  National and local
budgets
2.- Decentralizing institutional     2.- US$9.14 million
accountability and capacity for service
delivery to local governments and
communities
2.1 .-Revise the policy and institutional
framework of central departments,
regional authorities, prefecture
administration and CRDs.
2.2.-Strengthen the decentralized
structures to play their catalyst and
empowering role toward CRDs
2.3.- Strengthen the management
capacity of CRDs to provide adequate
services to the rural populations
3.- .Improving communication with    3.- US$.41 million
beneficiaries
4.- Introducing a performance incentive   4.- US$4.1 8 million
system
4.1 .-Setting-up a performance appraisal
and incentive system
4.2.- Operating a Performance
Improvement Fund
5.- Program coordinationand          5.- US$3.61 million
management
5. 1.- Establishment of a project
administration unit
5.2.- Developing the monitoring and
evaluation system
5.3.- Preparation of the judicial reforrn
program



31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
The project deals with the first four years (Phase I) of the 12-year Capacity Building for Service Delivery
Program (CBSDP). The focus will be on primarv education, basic health, agricultural extension and
paralegal services, and will cover four prefectures, one in each natural region, and 24 Rural Development
Communities (CRD). Other areas may be added subject to IDA agreement.
Project Component 1 -       Decentralizing Public Expenditure Management
(US$3.66million)
This component seeks to consolidate and deepen the budgetary reforms undertaken since 1996 to ensure
that the needs of rural populations will be taken into account in the allocation process and that budgetary
resources will reach the service delivery front line. It centers on two primary objectives: (i) promoting
fiscal decentralization by shifting responsibilities for expenditures and revenues management to local
governments and communities (prefectures and CRDs); and  (ii) assisting local governments in
implementing a bottom-up performance budgeting approach and promoting decentralized resource
mobilization.
Concerning the first objective, the centralization of expenditure management in the line/sector ministries,
the absence of clear rules for revenue and expenditure assignments, weak financial management and
monitoring of public expenditures have led to the bulk of budgetary resources being spent at the central
level. Beginning with the 1999 budget, an effort has been made to provide a more detailed breakdown of
certain budget items in selected line ministries. During subsequent phases of CBSDP when the capacity
for financial management will have been established at both the prefecture and CRD levels, prefectures
will then be given a more important coordinating role and can then take over the implementation of the
budget at the prefecture level for important sector ministries such as social sector and rural development.
With regard to revenues, the proposed reform will also proceed in phases. During the first year of the
CBSD project, CRDs will be allowed, in the four pilot prefectures, to keep the totality of the head tax,
which is now collected by them, but with the proviso that revenues be shared with prefectures, sub-
prefectures and districts according to a fixed fornula. This measure will hopefully improve the incentive
for a more diligent collection of the head tax, thus raising the amount of resources made available to
CRDs. As for the prefectures, in addition to their share in the budget of the Ministry of Territorial
Administration and Decentralization to which they are now connected, the four pilot prefectures will
receive a transfer of budgetary resources equivalent to their current share of the head tax. At the same
time, CRDs will, with the assistance provided by the VCSP, develop their capacity to mobilize additional
resources from other taxes, fees and fines. They also have the prospect of direct transfer of resources from
the central budget when their capacity to manage resources in a transparent and effective manner is
ascertained.
To ensure that budgetary resources allocated to high priority sectors will reach the front line, two
measures will be supported under this component:
(a)    Introducing a bottom-up, integrated performance budgeting system starting from the service
delivery front line, going up through the CRD, prefecture, sector DAAF up to the central budget
agency. This system may be a viewed as an extension of the on-going MTEF approach, and will



32
help provide data on the real needs of local communities for the budgetary decision-making
process at the central level. Some elements of this approach have already been introduced at the
service delivery front line in a number of CRD in the prefectures of Coyah and Mamou during
the preparation of CBSDP.
(b)    Strengthening the tracking and mnonitoring of budget transfer and impact at the local level
Through independent surveys and monitoring, Government will ensure that the resources
allocated to priority sectors not only reach the front line of service delivery but also can
determine the impact of such funcling on the level and quality of services delivered. This is the
kind of information that an internal monitoring system, beset with weaknesses, cannot provide.
This component will also support (i) the consolidation of the MTEF to ensure that budgetary resources
will continue to be allocated according to development priorities. (ii) the operation and maintenance of an
up-to-date performing computerized financial information system, and (iii) the setting up and
strengthening of decentralized budgetary and financial management systems at the prefecture and CRD
levels.
Activities to be financed under this compor.ent include:
(a) producing operating manuals on the MTEF approach, and on bottom-up, performance budget
preparation and implementation procedures;
(b) setting up a decentralized budgeting system at the prefecture and CRD levels;
(c) adopting new rules of budget classification to include more details of budgetary resources accruing to
prefecture and CRD levels;
(d) strengthening financial management urnits in sector ministries (DAAF) and prefecture (SAAF);
(e) strengthening financial management in project implementing agencies, to meet the disbursement
requirements of the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI);
(f) developing performance indicators to monitor progress and impact of various policy changes and
investment programs on the economy arLd rural poverty.
This component will finance intemational and national consultants to provide technical support and to
carry out implementation studies, staff training and workshops on budget and financial management,
micro computers and server systems and critical operating costs. The primary beneficiaries are the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, and the strategy and
financial management units in the sector mi:nistries. Financing will also be provided for policy studies to
link investment and recurrent budgets, to establish incentive systems for Customs and Tax agencies, to
define a system of aid coordination, and to carry out audits of four state enterprises staked out for
privatization.
Primary responsibility for the implementation of this component is vested in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance.



33
Project Component 2 - Decentralizing institutional accountability and capacity for service delivery
to Local Governments and Communities. (US$ 9.14 million)
The Govemment has long recognized the need to involve the population, in particular the rural poor, in the
development processes. A devolution policy was adopted in 1985. A number of legislative and executive
orders were adopted in 1986; others in 1992, on the organization and operation of urban and rural
communities, responsible for electing their representatives and managing their own affairs. Efforts have
been deployed to increase their involvement in the satisfaction of local needs. Progress in general has been
slow. The lack of effective support from area government representatives, especially prefecture
authorities, has been considered a key constraint.
The Government has decided to address this issue by adopting a policy of administrative decentralization,
consisting in holding the Prefect accountable for coordinating the delivery of public services to the local
elected entities. He is to be accountable to the central government and eventually to local government,
through the Prefecture Development Council (PDC), for ensuring that the needs of the rural population for
public services are met. This may be done either directly through the relevant technical units and /or by
the work of their elected representatives whose empowerment will be supported by prefecture authorities.
The project will assist the Government in its effort to change the prefecture administration into a prime
mover and catalyst of local communities empowerment, and to make that administration accountable to
both the central government and the CRDs for the provision of security, order as well as technical support
in the delivery of public services to the population.
Actions to undertake under this component will include:
(a) the revision of the institutional framework in order to achieve decentralization at the prefecture level
and the devolution at the CRD level. This will involve clarification of the roles played by various
agencies, and the elimination of ambiguity and conflict between central, regional, and prefecture
administrations. The changes will need to be accepted and internalized which only an extensive
participatory process is likely to work. The proposed project will provide support for MATD to
manage that process so that the outcome will be acceptable to all concerned, and therefore workable.
(b) the strengthening of the ability of strategy and financial units in ministerial, regional and prefecture
levels to provide effective support to the CRDs; including the establishment of decentralized delivery
and management systems at the prefecture and CRD levels.
(c) the improvement of the leadership and management capacity of CRD elected officials and
administrative staff. This support will be provided as an addition to other supports given under VCSP
and by other donors. In general, the training provided by other programs tends to focus on the
"technical skills". CBSDP will focus on helping local leaders and senior staff gain confidence in
themselves and acquire the necessary tools to influence people and make a difference.
The project will finance international and national consultants to help carry out organizational diagnoses,
set up management systems, train key staff in leadership and general management and other staff in
relevant subjects such as planning and budgeting, project identification and preparation, program
monitoring and evaluation. The component will also finance data processing material and equipment,
rehabilitation of prefecture and sub-prefecture physical infrastructures, and critical operating costs.
The primary beneficiaries of this component are four prefectures, and the 24 sub-prefectures andCRDs.



34
Regional Govemor Offices, and relevant units in the Ministry of Territorial Administration and
Decentralization (MATD) whose capacity for monitoring prefecture performance will also be
strengthened through leadership and managemenit training. MATD is responsible for coordinating the
implementation of this component.
Project Component 3 -       Improving Communication with the Beneficiaries
(US$.41 rnillion)
This component seeks to promote the active participation of the beneficiaries in the delivery of needed
services, by improving communication and by a public informnation program.
Poor communication between service providers and the beneficiaries has been a major hurdle to effective
service delivery. An action-research carried out in four primary schools and four health centers in the
prefectures of Coyah and Mamou in March - April 1998 showed that 30% of the problems cited by both
beneficiaries and service providers stemimed from a lack of communication between them, while an
additional 40% derived from the absence of effective communication lines between theCRDs and
prefecture agencies.
Since 1997, the Government has made notable efforts to consult the civil society. starting with the
extensive, nation-wide consultation of the population in the definition of the country's long-tern
development priorities. For many years, systematic information and communication programs have also
been promoted under various donor-assisted sector projects. Despite the progress made, communication
with the beneficiaries still requires considerable improvement.
This component will focus on strengthening the lines of communication: (a) at the service delivery point,
between providers and beneficiaries through the improvement of participatory mechanisms such as school
PTAs, health center management committees and farmers groups: and (b) at the prefecture level, through
the activities of the Prefecture Development Council (PDC), which will act as a full partner of the Prefect
with regard to decisions affecting local communities. Tllis Council ('Conseil prefectoral de
developpement") was created by Ordinance No. 079/PRG/86 of March 25, 1986, which recognizes the
right of local communities for self governance. It is currently chaired by the Prefect and composed of both
government officials and representatives from civil society including NGOs, small business, labor unions,
and the CRDs. Until now these councils generally exist on paper, or have been used by prefecture
authorities as a means for passing on official instructions.
The Government intends to change this situation and has stated its commitment in the LDP to make the
Prefecture Development Council a community elected body with authority initially to review proposed
programs and budgets but which will gradually become decision-making bodies with approval authority.
This component will support (a) the strengthening of participatory mechanisms at the CR1D and service
delivery levels; (b) the establishment of PDCs with a new mandate, composition and operating
procedures, and the provision of training for council members; and (c) the training of 40 facilitators-
trainers to help front line services with collective problem solving. In addition, the component will help
define a public infonnation strategy and implement a public information program. Training of local
officials and staff in effective communicaticin, team work and problem solving will also be provided.
Technical assistance from local consultants 'will be funded to help define and establish the information and
communication program, prepare operating procedures, and train staff in communication skills.
Communication equipment and materials including micro-computers will be provided to MATD central



35
units, regional offices and prefecture and CRDs. The implementation of this component is also vested in
MATD.
Project Component 4 -       Introducing a Performance Incentive System
(US$4.18 million)
This component aims at ensuring the successful implementation of project activities and preparing the
way for sustaining project actions and impact in the long run, by providing the civil service with a
workable and affordable performance appraisal and incentive system.
A major roadblock to improving service delivery is the lack of appropriate performance appraisal and
incentives to reward superior achievement. An attempt was made by the then Ministry of Administrative
Reform to correct this situation as part of a comprehensive administrative reform program launched in
December 1985. Several texts were issued in 1988-1990 to define new performance appraisal procedures
and a set of rewards. These did not seem to fit either the political context or the institutional environment;
therefore, the new system has not been implemented. Since then, a number of efforts have been
undertaken to provide incentives, generally as stop-gap, isolated measures taken under donor-assisted and
NGO-operated projects. Some of them seem to work well, such as the schemes used in thePlan Guin6e
and by CLUSA (an American NGO financed by USAID).
During the preparation of the proposed project, a quick interview of some 30 professional staff from five
ministries and two prefectures in 1998 gave the following information: (a) their monthly household
expenditures exceeded their individual earnings-- by 50 to 300 percent; (b) the lack of means to carry out
their basic tasks, such as transportation, paper and pencils, were cited as significant de-motivating factors;
and (c) about a third of those interviewed stated that they would be interested in settling in the private
sector. Additional data collected during the pre-appraisal mission in 1999 on the current incentive systems
showed that there was a variety of incentives that could potentially result in improved service delivery,
and that a combination of monetarv and non-monetary rewards, granted to groups as well as to individuals
should be considered. These rewards may range from specific sums of money at one end to the psychic
rewards of simple recognition by a superior at the other end, and in-between a variety of awards,
including the provision of materials and logistics, and training opportunities overseas.
From the sketchy data thus far collected, it appears that the performance improvement issue hinges upon
the existence of a positive organizational climate, which stems from a combination of factors, including
an appropriate reward system (monetary and non-monetary), the provision of a minimum of working
conditions, and the quality of leadership and management provided by heads of unit. It appears also that
the nature of the award does make a difference and a combination of incentives may be desirable.
The Govemment intends to carry out an in-depth study to define appropriate performance in service
delivery incentive system along the lines indicated below, and to test its validity in the four related sectors
within the pilot prefectures and 24 CRDs.
(a) Establishment of a Sustainable Performance In Service Delivery Fund (SPISDF) to reward prefectures,
CRDs and districts, and related central and sector units and individuals for superior performance.
Rewards will be tied to the attainment of specific service delivery benchmarks, as determined by
beneficiary satisfaction surveys, and, where feasible, the achievement of agreed work plans. The
eligibility criteria and standards as well as the legal and institutional framework for the Fund,
including a manual of operating procedures, will be defined and initially used in three CRDs;



36
(b) Performance grants awarded to prefectures,CRDs and districts, will be for the purpose of financing
perfonnance improvement sub-projects.  They will be disbursed subject to submission by
beneficiaries of a sub-project designed to fuirther improve the effectiveness in service delivery. The
PAU will enter a Performance Grant Agreement with the beneficiaries, under terms and conditions
including the obligation to carry out the performance improvement sub-project in accordance with the
manual of procedures of the SPISDF.
(c) With regard to the CRDs, there will be consultation with related communities to determine
meaningful awards in light of their service delivery needs. At the level of the prefectures (sub-
prefectures included), once a given prefecture is deemed to have attained the required level of
excellence to merit an increased budget allocation, the related Prefet and his management team will
be consulted and requested to submit a proposal for a sub-project to be implemented with resources
provided by IDA. This approach will facilitate subsequent tracking of the use of IDA finds.
(d) SPISDF will include two parts: Part (i) supported by IDA, to be used to finance performance
improvements sub-projects proposed by prefectures, CRDs and districts; Part (b) co-funded by the
Government and IDA, to finance monetary and non-monetary awards, including goods and training,
to deserving individuals, teams and administrative and decentralized units.
SPISDF will be financed by the contributions from the Government and IDA during this first phase. It will
start with an IDA contribution of US$3.0 million, which will cover the Performance Grants and 90 percent
of the Performance Awards. Government's contribution of 10 percent of the Performance Awards will be
drawn from counterpart budgetary resources.
The Govemment intends to adopt the performance incentive system, based on the establishment of the
SPISDF and including the necessary legal, institutional and operational framework, no later than August
3 1, 2000. The terms of reference for the study to define the timing, management and operating procedures
of the incentive system and SPISDF will be established are expected to be completed by December 30,
1999.
The project supports the definition and testing of the performance incentive system during this phase,
including the financing of the work of an inter-sector study group established under the leadership of the
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service (MEFP).This group will be supported by short-term
intemational and national consultants, overseas study visits, workshops and seminars to discuss and
review findings and proposals, and some equipment, materials and operating funds.
MEFP is responsible for coordinating the implementation of this component.
Project Component 5 -      Project Coordination and Management
(US$3.61 million)
The overall coordination, management and acdministration of the Project are entrusted to three structures:
a steering committee, an inter-ministerial management committee, and a project administration unit.
Project Steering Committee
The overall coordination and oversight of project implementation is the responsibility of a steering
committee (PSC), created by anArrete of the Prime Minister dated August 20, 1999. PSC is chaired by
the Prime Minister and has the authority to: (i') approve the project annual work programs and budgets; (ii)



37
review the implementation progress towards achievement of project's objectives; and (iii) issue general
guidelines for project implementation and decide on major corrective actions. PSC will meet at least
twice a year or any time as necessary upon the invitation of its Chairman.
PSC's members include: (1) the Minister of Planning and Cooperation, Vice-Chair; (2) the Minister of
Territorial Administration and Decentralization; (3) the Minister of Economy and Finance; (4) the
Minister of Employment and Civil Service; and (5) the Ministers of Pre-university, Health, Agriculture
and Livestock, and Justice.
Project Inter-ministerial Management Committee
The day- to-day coordination and monitoring of project implementation activities is entrusted to an
Inter-ministerial Management Committee, created in August 20, 1999 by anotherArrete of the Prime
Minister, and chaired by the Minister of Territorial Administration and Decentralization, who is also the
rapporteur at the PSC.
PIMC is composed of representatives from each of the 4 agencies responsible for the implementation of
project components: (1) Ministry of Plan and Cooperation, (2) Ministry of Economy and Finance, (3)
Ministry of Employment and Civil Service, and (4) Ministry of Territorial Administration and
Decentralization. It will meet at least twice a month to review the project's overall implementation
progress and to take appropriate decisions to ensure the smooth and timely coordination of different
components. Performance allowances for component coordinators will be paid from counterpart funds; the
salaries of their support staff will be included in project recurrent costs.
The Project Administration Unit
Support to implementing agencies will be provided by a Project Administration Unit (PAU), which
serves as the secretariat to the PIMC. It is a light structure whose primary responsibility is to provide
technical and financial expertise to implementing agencies, especially in the areas of procurement,
disbursement, financial accounting, project monitoring and evaluation, including the operations of the
Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery Fund. In addition, it will assure overall financial
management, accounting, procurement and reporting. PAU will also be responsible to government and
IDA for the regular preparation and submission of project reports.
PAU is headed by an Administrator, who is assisted by an Administrative and Financial Officer, a
Procurement Specialist, and an Accountant and a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist.
The key functions of the PAU are summarized below:
Programming and budgeting
As the secretariat to the Inter-ministerial Management Committee, PAU is responsible for preparing
consolidated annual work program and budget proposals. These will be based on the annual programs and
budgets prepared by the implementing agencies of project components. The consolidated programs and
budgets will be submitted to the Project Steering Committee for approval.



38
Financial management and accountnLg
A special account will be established for the project, with secondary/advance accounts established at
each prefecture, to facilitate efficient implementation of decentralized activities. The Project Operational
Manual will describe the workings of these primary and secondary accounts and their relationship and
accountability. The agencies involved in implementing the different components will maintain their
separate financial records in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles and will prepare
separate financial statements. Audits of the PAU accounts will be carried out annually by independent
external auditors. A plan to strengthen Goveniment's ability to provide periodic reports on project
implementation performance within the 18 months following credit effectiveness, in accordance with the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) has been established. Pending the establishment of such
a system, an interim procedure will be implemented, modeled after the current systems used by other IDA
projects in Guinea, to ensure proper handlingI, of IDA credit proceeds. Details on the procedures of project
financial management and accounting according to LACI are described in the Financial Section of the
Project Operational Manual.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The objective of the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) team is to respond to the internal management
and supervision needs of implementing agencies responsible for different project components, the
government and IDA. As such, the M&E team will, on a regular basis, provide pertinent information on
performance indicators, trends, and triggers for passing from one phase to the next.
Monitoring will be developed and carried out by the implementing agencies with assistance from the
M&E Team, in coordination with IDA. The monitoring system will be organized as a network with each
implementing agency in charge of monitoring its own activities. A consolidated computerized system
integrating data on physical implementation with those on financial implementation will be established.
M&E activities will be coordinated by a Monitoring & Evaluation team, which in reinforcement of the
"Direction Nationale de la Statistique", will be in charge of (i) developing and exploiting a data collection
system appropriate to establish performance indicators for each project component; (ii) compiling and
consolidating, on a quarterly basis, all relevant information including data related to expenditures and
disbursements, and (iii) preparing consolidated quarterly implementation reports for the overall project.
The M&E team will also be responsible for advising implementing agencies on matters related to the
computerization of project information systems and for operating and maintaining the computerized
integrated monitoring system which will be set up with assistance from external consultants.
Evaluation, on the other hand, will be conducted annually by independent external service providers to
focus on assessing: (i) the impact of project activities on the beneficiaries; and (ii) the progress in
institutional improvements. These two evaluations would be based on the data provided by the M&E team
as well as by surveys and interviews of beneficiaries and other participants. These evaluations would
highlight lessons learned that would be used to improve the effectiveness of project implementation, to
make adjustments to the Operational Manual as necessary, and to identify actions and measures to be
considered for Phase II. A mid-term review and an end- of - project evaluation will be conducted jointly
by the Government and IDA.
This component will finance the costs to staff, equip, and operate the PAU office, short - term consultant
service to provide technical support in some specific areas cutting across components, system
development to establish a computerized integrated project management system, and for studies to define



39
a capacity building program for the judicial sector, as well as to prepare Phase II. It will also finance
equipment to strengthen the capacity of the 'Direction Nationale de la Statistique" in the development of
macro indicators and benchmarks.
Detailed descriptions of the structures, their mandates and operating procedures and relationships among
various agencies and units will be described in the Project Operational Manual, which will have a special
section on Financial Procedures to be prepared by the PAU financial specialists under the supervision of
the IDA Financial Management Specialist at the Resident Mission.



40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs Summary
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
Project Component                            Local      [Foreign   I Total
1I:. ;tDceiifhzi- ub1ic expenditures tmanagement                       1.i5         1.57     3.11
2.D ecentralizinginbstitutional accotablitnd capacityfort              2.80         4.97     7.77
swerice delivery'to loI Agoveinmentsland communities
3l. yIprovingcommuication With beneficiaries                           0.10         0.25     0.35
4. higtrdcing a perforniancpiincentv  system                           1.35         2.20     3.55
5. Project coordination and.management                                 1.20         1.87     3.07
Totahl Basetline CosilX t  l:|:T   :0):  Xl   :0}:;     :6.99                      10.86    17.85
Phj; :;;;Ayrlysical; Contingencies:VW: t WaQ: -X:X:; X VX: :::; :X: :X:  :X: :: X ::: :: C? :0.69  1.09  1.78
Price Contingencies                                                 0.35         0.55     0.90
L Total Preojec Cost                                      ]03                      12. 97 -21 .0-_



41
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
I.    A capacity building project of this nature is not amenable to traditional, quantitative cost benefit
analysis. Therefore, a qualitative discussion of its economic rationale is presented below.
Linkage with country assistance strategy and macro/sector framework
2.    The Project fits fully with country and sector priorities outlined in the current Country Assistance
Strategy which focuses on (i) promotion of a broad-based private sector led growth with a focus on the
rural area, (ii) enhanced service delivery for poverty reduction, and (iii) improved governance and
institutional capacity.
3.    The macro-economic and sector policy frameworks are now adequate to undertake CBSDP. In
1988, the Government undertook bold steps to liberalize most markets, which led to a marked
improvement in exchange rate performance, reduction in inflation, and more favorable terms of trade. This
resulted in an average growth of GDP of about 4.5% per annum in 1990 - 1996.
4.     Despite this commendable performance, social indicators were still lagging. Thus in 1996, the
Government adopted and implemented a Medium Term Expenditure Framework aimed at rationalizing
the overall pattern of sector expenditures. As a result, (i) the shares of public expenditures for key social
sectors, especially health and education, were increased; (ii) the functional allocation of expenditures were
made consistent with intra-sector priorities, and (iii) the economic composition of sector budgets was
altered to give more weight to non-salary recurrent expenditures, thereby ensuring adequate provision for
maintenance and increasing the likelihood of the sustainability of public investments.
Fiscal impact and cost recovery
5.    The proposed project seeks to improve the effectiveness of public service delivery.  Such
activities can only be undertaken by the public sector because they involve public goods and, as stated
earlier, aim at correcting regional inequity.
6.    Given the nature of the proposed operation, there is little potential for cost recovery. It will not,
however, impose an undue burden on the government budget. With the likely right sizing of the public
sector work force resulting from the implementation of the performance-based incentive system, the
Government would have the resources to sustain recurrent costs generated by the project. Thus the project
is expected to be sustainable from the fiscal standpoint.
Cost - Benefit Analysis
7.     Cost effectiveness indicators and a qualitative account of the expected development impact for
each component of the project is discussed below.
8.    Component I -- Decentralizing public expenditures management processes will result in savings.
The proposed project will reinforce the positive gains achieved under PEMAC and MTEF in rationalizing
the economic and functional composition of the national budget and in introducing more accountability
throughout the budget process. This should result in a more growth-inducing and sustainable Public



42
Investment Program.
9.     Component 2 -- Decentralizing institutional accountability and capacity for service delivery to
local governments and communities. Through this component, CBSDP will help remove a major
constraint to a satisfactory delivery of public services to the poor, especially in rural areas. It will be done
in a cost-effective manner, through existing public institutions with minimal or recourse to costly external
technical assistance.
10.    Component 3 -- Improving the communication with beneficiaries will result in better targeted
poverty reduction interventions. Indeed, through beneficiary consultation, the services provided would
better match the needs of the communities, resulting in a lesser distortion in social welfare.
11.    Component 4 -- Introducing a performance-based incentive system may cause an initial increase
in government expenditures due to severance payments and the implementation of a performance based-
pay scale. However, experience with such restructuring shows an inicrease in worker performance and output
in the long-run.
Risk analysis
12.   Three major risks face the proposed project. The first relates to the possibility of policy reversals
and slippage in government commitment. T11e level of this risk, identified during preparation, has since
been heightened by the March 1999 reshuffling of government following Presidential elections. The risk
is reduced, however, by the fact that although a new Prime Minister has been appointed, most key
ministers- who have been IDA interlocutors since 1996, -- remain. In addition, through this project IDA
will continue and intensify its support to the Government to maintain the broad consultation and dialogue
with the civil society it initiated in October 1997.
13.   The second risk relates to possible resistance of sector agencies to decentralized units and staff to
change the status quo. The proposed project will provide incentives to encourage institutional changes at
three levels: CRD, prefecture and central government.
14.    The third risk concemns the constraint in IDA supervision  to provide timely and adequate
substantive advice to implementing agencies and Project Administration Unit because of limited budget
and resource. This risk would be minimized with forward planning of the required supervision effort and
recourse to bilateral and other donor assistance.
Poverty analysis
15.   The proposed project will benefit directly the poorest segment of the Guinea population,
especially those living in remote rural areas who constitute the largest share of the population and who
depend critically on public provision and/or funding of basic services.
16.   The project will also, indirectly but potently, affect poverty reduction through its incidence on the
overall rate and pattern of economic growth. As stated earlier, this capacity building operation will
consolidate the positive gains of the PEMAC and MTEF in rationalizing the budget allocation and the
public expenditure management system. This should result in more growth-accommodating and efficient
public sector intervention and less crowding-out of the private sector.



43
Environmental Impact
17.    No environmental assessment will be conducted. The proposed project is a capacity building
operation featuring training, studies and technical assistance; it has no foreseen adverse environmental
impact. On the contrary, CBSDP would have an indirect positive impact on the environment by
contributing to rural poverty reduction as environmental degradation is often the result of poor rural
populations striving to over-consume natural resources for subsistence. Institutional development grounds
are considerable. It is presented as a justifiable and worthwhile undertaking.



44
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Guinea: Capacity' Building for Service Delivery Project
Table 5A. -Year Ending December 31 (US$ M)
Phase I        Phase II       Phase III
(2000- 2003)   (2004- 2007)   (2008- 2011)
Project Costs
Investment Costs                              17.89           46.86          63.90
Recurrent Costs                                3.11            8.14          11.10
Total                                         21.00           55.00          75.00
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IDA                                           19.00           40.50          49.50
Other Donors                                   N/A            10.00          20.00
Government                                     2.00             4.5           5.50
Total                                         21.00           55.00          75.00
Main assumption: The amounts to be finarnced in Phases II and III are indicative and will be finalized
based on the experience of the preceding phase and when commitments from co-financiers are confirmed.



45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
1. In 1998, IDA supported through an IDF Grant a procurement reform. The new procurement regulation
does not conflict with IDA Procurement Guidelines, and no special exceptions, permits, or licenses need
to be specified in the Credit documents for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Guinea's procurement
practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations. IDA
financed Works and Goods will be procured in accordance with World Bank's Guidelines under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999). National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally provided that: (a) any bidder is given
sufficient time to submit bids (three to four weeks); (b) bid evaluation and bidder qualifications are clearly
specified in bidding documents; (c) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (d) award will be
made to the lowest responsive bidder; and (e) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard
documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable. Selection of Consultants will be based on Bank
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, (January 1997,
revised September 1997 and January 1999).
2. The proposed project is designed to fit the country's existing implementation capabilities, as
implementation would be entrusted to the public agencies concerned at both central and field levels, all of
which having already had experience with development projects. The responsibility for the
implementation would be as follows: the Ministry of Economy and Finance for Component I; the
Ministry of the Territorial Administration and Decentralization for Component II and III; and the Ministry
of Employment and Civil Service for Component IV. A Project Administration Unit (PAU) headed by an
Administrator would be responsible for harmonizing the monitoring and evaluation systems of the various
project activities. It would include three small teams: (1) a project management team, composed of an
accountant, a procurement specialist, and a project manager, responsible for coordinating work plans and
keeping project accounts and audits and handle all procurement matters for all components; (2) a
technical support team to provide technical advice, coordinate leadership and general management
training, manage special studies and support the communicationlinformation program; and (3) a
monitoring and evaluation team, responsible for baseline studies, monitoring overall implementation
progress and evaluating program impact, as well as providing technical support to individual M&E
activities of implementing agencies. PMU would also be responsible to the government and the external
funding agencies for the regular preparation and submission of progress reports.
3. Capacity Assessment, and Proposed Management Arrangements. National Bidding Procedures for
public sector procurement in Guinea have recently improved. Practices were slow before a revised
procurement code was issued in June 1997. The introduction of simplified procedures and training of staff
supported under an IDF Grant has improved the current situation. An evaluation of the capacity of the
recruited procurement management staff will be carried out before credit effectiveness to assess any need
for training or recruitment of ad-hoc external services.
4. In Guinea, all public procurement should be carried out in accordance with the general rules
established by Law No 97/016/AN of June 3, 1997. Articles 32 and 33 of this Law establish the
Procurement Commission ("Commission Interministerielle d'Ouverture des Plis et de Jugement des
Offres') which is in charge of the procurement of all contracts up to 1 billion GNF (approximately
US$800,000) and "Commission Nationale des Grands Marches Publics" for all contracts with a contract
value exceeding this amount.



46
5. A General Procurement Notice will be published in the Development Business and will be updated
annually for all outstanding procurements. A timetable listing all procurement steps was prepared with the
borrower during appraisal and will be regularly updated. A detailed procurement plan of goods and
services will be annexed to the Manual of Procedures.
6. The Government has submitted: (i) a draft Manual of Procedures, and (ii) the procurement plan for the
first year of project implementation. Procurement of all goods, works and services shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan up-dated every year and approved by the Association.
7. The Government has given assurance cluring negotiations that it will use: (i) the finalized version of
the Manual of Operational Procedures approved by IDA, (ii) the Bank's standard bidding documents and
bid evaluation reports for International Competitive Bidding, (iii) the Bank's standard request for
proposal, evaluation reports and model contracts for the consultant services; and (iv) apply the
procurement procedures and arrangements presented in the Manual of Operational Procedures.
8. The Manual of Operational Procedures will be approved before credit effectiveness and would only be
modified with prior IDA approval. The procurement plan will be updated on regular basis, in particular
during semi-annual reviews. The Government also gave assurance that it will take the necessary measures
to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following targets periods mentioned below:
Procurement Phases                  Maximum Time Frame
Preparation of bidding document      6 weeks (3 weeks for small contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders       6-12 weeks (3 weeks for small contracts)
Bid evaluation                       4 weeks (2 weeks for small contracts)
Signature of contracts               2 weeks
Payments                             3weeks
9. During project implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and draft contracts
transmitted to IDA for review will contai:n. an updated copy of the procurement plan. Procurement
confirmation will be collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt recording of contract award
information by the PAU and (b) comprehensive quarterly reports by PAU indicating: (i) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for
contingencies, (ii) revised timing of estimated procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award and experience with completion time and completion costs for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
1. Procurement methods (Table 6A)
1.1 Civil Works (US$0.3 million)
Procurement arrangements for civil works contracts (rehabilitation of four prefectures) estimated to cost
lest than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million, will be procured under
National Competitive Bidding. Small contracl:s w7ill be procured under lump sum fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited to bid. The
invitation shall included an estimation of the works established by an engineer/architect, a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of



47
agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
1.2 Goods and Equipment (US$4.1 million)
Procurement of Goods and Equipment will follow Bank Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. The
project will mainly support the procurement of (i) vehicles and motorcycles; (ii) computers and servers,
(iii) communications equipment and (iv) office furniture and equipment.
1.2.1 International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$3.2 million)
Except otherwise provided below, goods and equipment shall be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines.Invitations to pre-qualify
or bid for contracts procured under ICB will be advertised in Specific Procurement Notices in at least one
newspaper of national circulation, and preferably in international press and in the Development Business.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to
cost US$50,000 equivalent or more each.
1.2.2 National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (US$8 million)
Contracts for the purchase of goods and equipment valued at less than US$100,000 per contract may be
procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in accordance with the provisions ofParagraphs
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
1.2.3 National Shopping (US$.0.6 million)
The equipment and other office equipment and furniture, estimated to cost less than US$5,000 per contract
up to an aggregate not to exceed US$ .06 million may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
prudent national shopping based on price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers and in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
1.3 Consultant Services, Studies, Training and Workshops (US$8.8 million)
Consultant services would be contracted following procedures in accordance withBank Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999. The Standard Request for Proposals and Conditions of Contract as developed by
IDA would be used for all contracts. Simplified contracts may be used for short-term assignments, i.e.
those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants.
The project will include consultant services to support the Government's effort to strengthen the ability of
the public system to respond effectively and efficiently to the demands and needs of the rural population
mainly for (i) review the budgetary system to allow the direct transfer of resources to the prefecture an
CRD levels, (ii) introduce transparency in the management of financial resources, (iii) involve
beneficiaries in problem solving with regard to community affairs, and (iv) introduce a performance
incentive system to reward high performing units.
Short lists for consultants below estimated under US$50,000 may comprised, on exceptional basis and
with IDA's prior agreement, entirely national consultants, if a sufficient number (at least three) are
available at competitive cost in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 2.7 of the Guidelines.
NGO activities. The selection of NGOs would be based on their qualifications (experience and
competence relevant to the assignment). The package of activities proposed by NGOs would be retained



48
on the basis of eligibility criteria established for that purpose in the Manuel of procedures agreed upon
with IDA. NGOs would sign a convention (costing more than US$50,000 but less than US$200,000 per
convention) with the implementing agency. Standard unit prices based on on-going similar contracts
would be used for the purpose of determining the amount of packages of activities.
1.3.1 Quality and Cost Based Selection (U,SX$3.3 million)
Consultant services for technical assistance, studies and training financed under this project shall be
normally selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection is based
on Quality and Costs Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before combining
quality and cost evaluation.
1.3.2 Consultant Qualifications (US$8 million)
For specialized assignments, for which the need of preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not
justifiable, the Borrower may prepare TORs, request expressions of interest and information on
consultants experience and competence relevant to assigmnent, establish a short list, and select the firm
with the most appropriate qualifications and references in accordance to the provisions in Paragraph 3.7
of the Guidelines. Consultancy such as (i) review the budgetary system to allow the direct transfer of
resources, and (ii) introduce a performance incentive system to reward high performing units, may require
the services of several consulting firms to be selected based on consultant qualifications. NGOs may be
included in the short list, as participation and local knowledge is essential for canrying out the assignment;
and will be procured in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.13 and 3.14 of the Guidelines.
1.3.3 Single-Source Selection (US$.3 million)
In exceptional cases, tasks valued at less than US$25,000 that represent a natural continuation of previous
work carried out, where a rapid selection is essential, for very small assignments or when only one firm is
qualified or has experience of exceptional worth for the assignment, a single source selection may be used
with IDA prior agreement and in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11 of
the Guidelines.
1.3.4 Individual Consultants (US$.4 million)
Services valued at less than US$10,000 per contract which do not require firms may be procured by
Individual Consultants e.g. for small assignments, studies, organization of or lecturing at a seminars,
workshops or study tours will be selected through comparison of qualification and experience among
those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly in accordance of the provisions of
Section V of the Guidelines. The Administrato:r, the procurement specialist, the accountant and the project
manager will be recruited with IDA non-objection based on comparison of at least three resumes proposed
by the Government.
1.3.5 Project Audit (US$0.2 million)
For audits of standard nature, such as the project audit, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) will be used: the
firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided technical proposals received the minimal score.
1.3.6 Training (US$3.0 million)
The project will finance training in development and field testing of new delivery approaches and other
relevant fields in the country and abroad. The program containing names of candidates, cost estimates,
courses, period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA semi-annually.The
Government will also submit a final report not klter than three months after the training was completed.



49
1.4 Operating expenses (US$3.6 million)
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred in the program implementation, management
and supervision, including rent, office supplies and small office equipment, operation and maintenance,
administrative and secretarial support but excludes salaries of officials of the borrower's civil service and
the purchase of vehicles.
2. Prior review thresholds (Table 6B)
2.1 Civil Works
Contracts for the rehabilitation of four prefectures costing more than US$50,000 will be subject to IDA
prior review. All other small contracts, if any, will require post review.
2.2 Goods
All contracts for procurement of goods costing more than US$100,000 per contract will be subject to IDA
prior review. All other contracts will require post review. The review process is expected to cover about
80% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods.
2.3 Services
Prior review will be required for consultant services valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract with firms and at more than US$50,000 per contract with individuals. The project audit in any
case will be subject to prior-review. The technical evaluation report will be submitted for IDA non-
objection before the financial envelopes are opened. All other contracts will be subjected to post review.
Ho-wever, this exception for prior review will not apply to amendments of contracts with firms raising the
contract value to US$100,000, amendments of contracts with individuals to US$50,000, to services
procured by single-source selection and to assignments of critical nature as determined by IDA.
For training abroad or in the country, the program containing names of candidates, cost estimates, courses,
period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA semi-annually. The review process
is expected to cover 90% of the total value of the amount contracted for consultant services. Selective
post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one in three contracts a
year.



50
Table 6A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Procurement Methods
Expenditure Category       ICB       NCB      Other'    N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Civil Works                           0.3                              0.3
(0.15)                          (0.15)
2. Equipment & Vehicles        2.6        1.4       0.1                   4.1
(2.6)     (0.8)     (0.06)                (3.46)
3. Services & Training                              8.8                   8.8
(8.4)                 (8.4)
4. Incentives Funds                                 4.2                   4.2
(3.8)                 (3.8)
5. Operating Cost                                   3.6                   3.6
_______         ~~~~(3.19)            (3.19)
Total                        2.6       1.7       16.7                   21
(2.6)     (0.9)     (15.5)                 (19)
Note:  QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Single-Source Selection, Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing
procedures, consultants under trust finds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank credit.
All costs include contingencies
Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs.



51
Table 6B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value        Procurement        Contract subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Methods            Prior Review 1
(US$ millions)                             (US$ millions)
1. Works                                   ICB    NCB   Other
$50,000 and above            X            Prior review
Below $50,000                        X    Prior review (the first
three contracts every
L_______________   _____  _ _   year)
2. Goods
$100,000 and above    X          l         Prior review
Below $100,000               X             Prior review (the first
three contracts every
year)
Below $  5,000                       x l_X
3. Consultants                                   Selection
Methods
Audit                 N/A                  Least Cost Selection    Prior review
Consulting Firms or    $100,000 and above   QCBS + Short list    Prior review
Training Institutions
$100,000-$50,000     QCBS + Short list     Prior review
Below $50,000        Consultants'          Post review (except
Qualifications       for TORs)
Individuals           $50,000 and above    Comparison of at least  Prior review
3 CVs
Below $50,000        Comparison of at least  Post review (except
3 CVs                for TORs)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                $ 11.3 million or 80%
of the project cost
excluding the
Incentives Funds.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High = An evaluation of the capacity of the PAU will be carried out before Credit effectiveness.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:
One every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Prior review is also required for: (a) all TORs for consultants, studies and training; (b) annual training
and procurement plan; (c) sole source selection of individual consultants and firms; and (d) amendments
to contracts with consulting firms or individuals that bring the total value of the contract to US$ 100,000
equivalent or above for firms and US$ 50,000 for individuals.



52
Table 6C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds (US$19.0 million)
Expenditure Category                 Amount in        Financing
_____ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ _____ ____ US$  m illion  Percentage
1. Ci i Wrk                                           0.14                 50
aEquimn                                               1.84                100
b. Vehicles                                              1.06               100
cOffice furiniture.                                   0.40                90
3Services
Ta. Trig Seinrs Sudie Tou                             2.79                100
b.  Studies                                             2.53               100
cTehni,ca IA s~ac     ~2.25                                             100
4Incen tives F unds                                      3.18               97.5
5.Oprting Costs                                        2.60                80
6. RefNdin of Proj.e.t Prr.9ratl0 AdvAinc:e,               1.20
7. Unallocated                             ~~~~~~~~~~1.01
Total                               19.00{



53
Table 6D: Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit (US$19.0 million)
YEAR             1999            2000            2001            2002         2003
Amount                      1.2            8.44            4.64            2.15      2.56
Cumulative                  1.2            9.64           14.28           16.43     18.99
Cumulative rate                            50.7            75.1            86.5     100.0
%relative                  6.7             44.4            24.4            11.3      13.2



54
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
A. Project Budget (US$'000)         Planned (US$400,000)    Actual (US$284,300)
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                 Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  18                     14
First Bank mission (identification)         10/98                  11/98
Appraisal mission departure                 6/99                   08/99
Negotiations                                8/99                   10/99
Planned date of Effectiveness               3/00
Preparation assistance provided by PPF ($1.2m) and Japanese PHRD (US$501,860)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Rudy Chizungu                    Public Sector Management Specialist, Team Leader, AFI12
Albert Osei                       Senior Economist, Resident Representative:
Brian T. Ngo                     Principal Country Economist, AFTM5
Luc Lapointe                     Consultant - Procurement, AFTS2
Bella Lelouma Diallo             Financial Management Specialist, AFMGN
Abdullaye Yero Balde             Economist, Resident Mission:
Joseph Toledano                  Sr. Agricultural Services Specialist, Resident Mission
Hassane Cisse                    Counsel, LEGAF
David Webber                     Principal Financial Management Specialist, LOAAF
Ousmane Jah                      Operations Officer, AFC 16
Armand Atomate                   Public "Sector Management Specialist, AFTI2:
Mathurin Gbetibouo               Agricultural Economist, AFTR3:
Jack Titsworth                   Consultant - Governance: AFT12
The following Bank staff were consulted duri:g project preparation:
Robert S. Prouty                 Principal Education Specialist, AFTH2
Linda English                    Education Economist,AFTH2
Bachir Souhlah                   Senior National Resources Maniagement Specialist, AFTR3
Astrid Lawson Hegeland           Research Analyst, AFTH2
Slaheddine Ben- Halima           Senior Operations Officer, AFTH2
Susanne Holste                   Transport Specialist, AFTT2
Suzanne Piriou - Sall            Rural Development Specialist, AFTR3
Yves Genevier                    Health Specialist, AFTH4
Quality Advisory and Review Team
Bernard Abeille                  Principal Procurement Specialist, AFTS2
Siaka Bakayoko                   Financial Specialist, AFTH2
Amitaba Mukherjee                Public Sector Management Specialist; ECSPE
Markus Kostner                   Consultant, SDVPC



55
Annex 8: Financial Management
Guinea: Capacity for Service Delivery Project
A.    Disbursement
The proposed IDA Credit will finance an investment program for the capacity building sector in Guinea. It
will be disbursed over a period of four years, according to the categories presented in Annex 6 -Table D.
The Credit will follow the standard disbursement profile for Guinea.
Disbursements of the credit will be fully documented at time of submission of withdrawal applications,
except for expenditures valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent, which will be made against Statements
of Expenditure (SOE), and will be kept available for examination by auditors, technical audits, and by
IDA supervision missions. Applications for direct payments can be submitted for amounts exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent.
B.    Counterpart Funds and IDA support for Operating Costs
Government's counterpart funds needed for twelve (12) months to cover the share of investment not
financed by IDA will be deposited by the government in a Program Account (PA) at a viable and reputed
local Bank at the beginning of each year of the project. The funds will be managed by the Project
Administration Unit (PAU) for Government's share of eligible expenditures.
Operating costs consist of incremental operating costs incurred as a result of project implementation,
management and supervision including office supplies, responsibility allowances for coordinators of
implementing agencies, salaries of project support staff, fuel, utilities, rent, communication costs and
travel allowances of project staff, but excluding salaries of Borrower's civil servants.
C.    Special Account
To facilitate disbursements, the government will open a Special Account (SA) at a reputed local
Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA in Conakry for IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The maximum
balance in the Special Account will be US$ 500,000, which will cover about 4 months of expenditures, to
be disbursed from the Special Account. IDA will replenish the SA upon receipt of appropriate
documentation satisfactory to IDA for incurred eligible expenditures. Each replenishment request will be
accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
D.    Secondary Accounts or " Caisses d'Avance "
To facilitate disbursements at each level of the project, the government will open (a) an Advance Account
at a local and viable commercial bank for activities executed by the implementing agencies. AC is funded
by the Special Account and will be managed according to the procedures specified in the Project
Operational Manual in accordance with respective annual work programs and budgets. ACs will be
managed by the Prefet and the elected Presidents of related CRDs according to the procedures specified in
the Project Operational Manual. CAs will pay the total amount of expenditures incurred at the prefectures
and CRD levels, the consolidation of expenses will be effected by the PAU. CAs accounts, each not
exceeding a maximum of US$15,000 equivalent, will be replenished by the PAU against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE).



56
E.    Accounting
CBSDP will operate on a decentralized basis with all its components which will be managed by separate
project implementation units set up in separate ministries, prefectures and CRDs. The Project
Administration Unit (PAU) and the other implementing agencies will maintain each separate set of
accounting records for the portion of the program they are directly in charge of. In addition to maintaining
the accounts at the central level, PAU will be responsible for the consolidation of the program accounts
and the production of the annual financial statements.
To ensure consistent financial reporting, detailed procedures will be developed for project accounting.
Based on IDA's experience with decentralized projects in Guinea with agricultural projects, the PACV
project experience in close monitoring to maintain controls and build financial capacity will be adequate.
Intemal accounting controls for the project will be set out in detail in the Financial Section of the Project
Operational Manual and will provide reasonable assurances that accounts are properly recorded and
resources safeguarded.
The accounting systems for the implementation agencies will be computerized using well-known software
on other IDA financed projects in French-speaking West Africa and that has been found to be satisfactory
for Borrower and IDA purposes.
The chart of accounts for the project will be based on the "Plan Comptable National " of the Republic of
Guinea.
F.    Auditing
Program accounts will be audited in accordance with international audit standards by experienced and
internationally recognized audit finns acceptable to IDA. The audit reports and related project accounts
will be submitted to IDA within four (4) months after the end of fiscal year. In addition to their standard
short form report with the opinion, the auditors will be required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive review
of all SOEs as well as the internal control procedures governing their preparation for the relevant period
under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; (ii) review the management and utilization of the
Special Program Account and express a separate opinion thereon as well. Finally, the auditors will
complete their in-depth review, started at irnterim, of the internal control system of the program with a
view to identify the major weaknesses ancl shortcomings and propose practical recommendations for
improvement. The results of this review wvill be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted
along with the audit reports.
The Bank Resident Mission's Financial M:anagement Specialist will also perform interim  audits (9
months into the fiscal year) to review the internal control system including management performance, and
issue reports to that effect within one month from the end of their work. The findings and
recommendations of the interim reports will be attended to right away before the return of the auditors for
the final audit (mostly 3-4 months after closing of the fiscal year of the program). The contracting of
auditors (financial and technical), on multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by the RM
Financial Management Specialist that the PAIJ's accounting system is operational, is a condition of credit
effectiveness.



57
G.    Reporting
The PAU will submit the following reports prepared jointly with the implementing agencies: (a) semi-
annual progress reports; (b) an annual report and a proposed financing plan, four weeks before the joint
annual review, and not later than December 1St each year; (c) a detailed progress report on technical and
financial programn activities not later than four weeks before the date of mid-term review; and (d) relevant
sections of the implementation completion report (ICR) three months before the closing date.
The CRD's (the base accounting unit) will provide quarterly activity reports to the Prefectures together
with quarterly financial reports of their respective activities. The Prefectures will submit consolidated
quarterly financial reports with supporting documentation to the PAU which will consolidate the financial
reports of the operational components.
The annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with the generally accepted
accounting principles in Guinea and with FARAH, which has been accepted by IDA for projects in
Guinea. They will include at least a statement of sources of funds, a statement of reconciliation of the
special accounts, a balance sheet and required notes to the financial statements. Also they will be
submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
H.    Project Management Reports
The Bank has introduced an initiative to change loan administration in Bank Group projects, the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative assists projects to put in place sound financial
management, procurement and output monitoring systems. Where appropriate, if these systems are in
place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR)
rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditures.
It was agreed, however, not to proceed immediately with PMR-based disbursement method during the
first 18 months of implementation while the financial management system is being strengthened to ensure
an orderly transition to LACI. To that end, the Bank will carry out at the end of the first year of
implementation, a comprehensive and detailed assessment of the program financial management to
detennine its full readiness for LACI. A second assessment will be carried out at the end of the second
quarter of the second year of implementation to evaluate the effectiveness of the transition to LACI.
During the first two years of implementation, meanwhile, disbursements under the program will be made
in accordance with the SOEs-based approach. The program will still be required to submit, in addition to
its financial statements, five quarterly reports, namely  a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a
Contract Expenditure Report - Goods & Works, a Contract Expenditure Report - Consultants, a
Procurement Management Report - Goods & Works, and a Procurement Management Report -
Consultants. All procurement documents, contracts, and invoices will be maintained separately by PAU
and be made accessible to supervision missions and auditors.



58
Annex 9: Documents in the Project File
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
1. Rapport de mission. "Volet Amelioration des services publics a la base: tester une approche de
recherche-action dans les prefectures de Coyah et de Mamou" (July 1998).
2. L'organisation et la gestion des administrations prefectorales - Le cas de Coyah (January 1999)
3. Etude du syst&me de gestion budg6taire avec concentration sur le secteur du developpement rural
(Janvier 1999).
4. Etude du systeme de communication entre I'Administration et les populations dans les prefectures de
Coyah et de Mamou (February 1999).
5. Etude du svsteme de gestion des ressources humaines dans les prefectures de Coyah et Mamou avec
concentration sur le secteur du developpement rural (February 1999).
6. Les problemes de developpement rural, d'education et de sante dans certaines sous-prefectures de
Coyah et de Mamou (March 1999).
7. Atelier de formation: Guide du FacilitateLir; Guide du Formateur; Cahier du Participant (March 1999).
8. Politiques et strategies sectorielles : La situation des prefectures (March 1999)
9. Financial Management Situation before tlle Introduction of L.A.C.I. (March 1999).
10. Program Implementation Plan (August 1999).
11. Detailed Cost Tables (August 1999).
12. Procurement arrangements - Mission report and technical note. (July 1999).
13. Action Plan to Implement the Loan Administration Change Initiative (August 1999).
14. Project Operational Manual (September 1999);
15. Preliminary Design of a Performance Incenitive System (October 1999);
16. Projet de Lettre de politique en matiere de deconcentration administrative (Octobre 1999)



59
Annex 10: Status of Bank Group Operations in Guinea
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in I1S$ Millions             and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year           Borrower               Putpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed    Orig  Frn Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 44
Active Projects
GN-PE-1074    1999 GOVERNMENT                  URBAN III                                0.00      18.00      0.00            17.26       0.00       0.00
GN-PE-41568   1999 GOVT.OFGUINEA               POP&REPROD BEALTH                        0.00      11.30      0.00            10.79        -.33      0.00
GN-PE-50732   1999 GOVT OF GUINEA              VILIAGE COMUNTY SPRT                     0.00     22.00        0.00           21.01       0.00       0.00
GN-PE-57188   1999 GOVT. OFGUINEA              PRE-SRVTEACHEREDUC                       0.00      4.10        0.00            3.14        .92       0.00
GN-PE-50731    1998                            MICROFINANCE                             0.00       5.00       0.00            5.09         .44      0.00
GN-PE-1075    1997 GOVERNMENT                   llI1RD WATER SUPPLY                     0.00     25.00       0.00            22.58       4.07       0.00
GN-PE-1077    1996  GOVERNMENT                 MNNSECTINVPROMOT                         0.00      12.20      0.00             3.54       2.06       0.00
GN-PE-1081     1996  GOVERNMENT                AGRIC SERVICES                           0.00      35.00       0.00           11.25       -3.30      0.00
GN-PE-1090    1996  GOVERNMENT                 HIGIEFREDUCATION MAN                     0.00       6.60       0.00            3.85       3.56       2.86
GN-PE-1087    1995  GOVERNMENT                 EQUITY AND SCHOOL IM                     0.00     42.50        0.00           20.45      14.00       0.00
GN-PE-1070    1994  GOVERNMENT                 HEALTH/NUT.SCTR.                         0.00     24.60        0.00           10.14       3.57       3.57
GN-PE-1068    1993  GOVTOFGI7INEA              AGR.EXPORTPROMOTION                      0.00     20.80        0.00           10.37       9.11        .51
lotal                                                                                   0.00    227.10        0.00          139.47      34.10       6.94
Active Projects    Closed Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):            76.34           1,010.93          1,087.27
of which has been repaid:                0.00            101.43            101.43
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:           227.10            858.42           1,085.52
Amount sold          :                       0.00              0.00             0.00
Of which repaid     :                      0.00              0.00              0.00
TotalUndisbursed      :                   139.47                .39           139.86
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99



60
Annex [L1: Guinea at a Glance
Guinea: Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
Guinea at a glance                                                                10/i/99
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
1997                                                Guinea     Africa   income      Development diamond,
Population, mid-year (miffions)                         6 9       614     2.048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas rnetlrod US$)                    570        500       350
GNP (Atlas method, .SS$ brons)                          4 0       309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populatin (%4)                                          2 6       2.7       2.1
Laborforce (%56)                                        2.3       2.6       2.3      GNP       ,,                     Gross
per                             prinary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199147)                                 capita      "'.            enrolmren1
Poverty (% of population below naUonal poverty line)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                 31         32        28
Life expectancy at birth years)                         46         52        59
Infant mortality (per 1, 003live bi,ths)               120         90        78
Child malnutrition (5 of children under5)               24         ..        61               Access to safe water
Access to sate water 1%6 o population)                  62         44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age I5-)                    64         43        47
Gross primary enrolhment (%of school-age population)    48         75        91                   Guinea
Male                                                  63        82        100            -     Low-income group
Female                                                34        87        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     19fi      1996      1997
Ewnnernyc ratioes
GDP (US$ billions)                               .      1.9       4.0       3.9
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                   ..    14.9        21.1      21.7
Exports of goods and servicesGDP                ..    31.1       17.1      17.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..               18.0      18.7
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..      8 4      13.4      13.7                        T
Current account balance/GDP                     ..     -.6       -7.7       -7.7
0.7  2 1     2.1    ~Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                           ..      0.7       2.1       2.19                                 Investment
Totaldebt/GDP                                   ..    81.7       90.6      79.9      Savi gs
Totaldebtselvice/exports                       ..    11.9        17.2      15.0 .
Present vale of debt/GOP                        ..        .      54.3
Present valae of debtlexports                   ..              264.1
I ndebtedness
1976436  19i87-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    ..      4.0      4 6       4.5       5.6                -uinea
GNP per capita                        ..       1.8      1 6       1.1       2.6              -    Low-ncomegroup
Exports of goods and services          ..     2.8      -1.8      -23        4.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of ioutput and investment I%)
(% of GOP)
Agricufture                                            239       21.8      22.4
Industry                                       ..      34.8      33.1      35.1      r 
Services                                               41 5      45.1      42.5      n
Private consumpton                              ..    70 6       74.9      74.3              2    o    i
General govemment consumrption                  ..    114         7.1       7.0
Imports of goods and services                   ..    28 1       20.2      20.8
(average annual growth)                   1976.86  19,7-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of eaports ad imports I%)
Agriculture                                      .      7 9       4.5       5.1    201
I ndustry                                      ..       1 9       9.0       4.3
Manufacturing                                 ..      1 8        25        4.5    10
Senices                                                 31        22        3.8                 .
Private consumpton                              ..      3.8       5.9       6.8      I
General govemment consumption                   ..      2.5      -5.2       -1.9
Gross domestic investment                       ..      5 5       3.5       2.6     ' 
Imports of goodsand services                    ..      11        -1.9      3.1                    Epo       - Irnports
Gross national product                          ..      4 6       4.5       4.1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bole I compared with its income-group average. If data are missiag, the diamond will
be incomplete.



61
Guinea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domesticprices
(% change)                                                                            30
Consumer prices                                            ..       3 0       3.2    20
ImplicitGDP deflator                                       ..       3.0       30
Govemment finance                                                                     IC
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    2
Current revenue                                  ..    13.4        10.1      11.5             92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                            ..      0.1        1.3      2.7               -"GDP defator        CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -9.8        -8.9       -8.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1976      1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      590        696       797      1000
Other metals                                    ..     381        324       342
Aluminum                                                73        104       113       750
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                               .      422        7146      779       S0D               Is
Food                                            ..        7        76        77       25
Fueland energy                                  ..      51         87        90
Capital goods                                   ..       50        78        83 o
9 92 93   94   95   96   97
Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                       ..     106         93        93
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       70         97        96     |             Exports     aimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      152         96     .97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$Smillions)
Exportsof goodsand services                      ..      598        746       821       0
Imports of goods and services                    ..      540        866       926
Resource balance                                  .       58       -120      -105
Net income                                               -3          33      3159
Net current transfers                            ..      -32        -36       -37
Current account babnce                           ..    -126        -305      -301      10
Financing items (net)                            ..      200        254       324
Changes in net reserves                           0       -74        51       -24      15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            0        0        170       225
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               21.4    346.0    1,004.0   1,096.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Compositlon of total debt, 1997 (US$ millionr
Total debtoutstanding and debursed              824    1,764      3,196     3,120
IBRD                                           66       61          0         0                  G 3
IDA                                             1      160        863       922                  0 212
Total debtservice                                38       72        131       125             F                         92
lBRD                                            8       12          0         0
IDA                                             0        2         11        10
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                                 2       42        122       129
Official creditors                             29      148        122       227         E E 1244       _:1D                   1
Private creditors                              12        1          0         9
Foreign direct investment                       0        8         40        43
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0       50         54        95       - IBRD                       E - silateral
Disbursements                                   1       36         47       109      B-IDA     D-Other MLiniateraI   F-Private
Principal repayments                            2        8          4         4      c-IMF                         G- Short-teen
Netfiows                                       -1       28         43       105
Interest payments                               6        6          7         6
Net transfers                                  -7       22         36        99
Development Economics                                                                                                     10/1S98






F-                 1E       t     A                      12                                    10,                                    8 
+?         ' ~~~Koundor    J^_                        9_                                                ~
G             A-'                                                                                                         a      M '  A   L fI-- ( '        
k~~~~~SA                                                                                                                                                     2    JtetB    -uuio/){v-W   /    -
D  /    X_+ ~~~~~~^;         JZ | q; ~~~~~~L(bE<)  ks              Dinguirrzye O>5     @ Trk s>   ig"irtG~} 
<         ~~~~~~G \U  I N  E E      KalJxk                      Niandakoro tm an              S. 
!    <$   *  w-~~~~~/-._                            r                            KoAMNSRTIERGO  APTL     urceouss  di Montaj 
rH SENGA                                                                                 r AI* PEETRCPTL     j  > tt /FRITEE ^->                   -
> -- I Jr D'IVOIRE .. J c~1             KLMEES                                                                                   s  Yomou  f    
c ......    LBERI   \   i      5how   on  hfs  rap  danot  nolpinOtotnhsondtfYTther nformtionX L |B E RI A  r?  nkan 
rm~~~~~~~Bf                              T / .               n ugento h glsou foytrioy rayedreet:r-   
o0                                        dvC- .i;                              ro cpan  of  su                         chbudre.l0t78 
Yb~~~~~~~~~~~ ~.Fr !.ona                                                                                          N   ..|               '10 _. 



