                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34153




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (PPFI-Q1970 TF-25079 IDA-33110 TF-29428)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$19.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                FOR A CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT

                               IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF

                 THE CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVERY PROGRAM




                                           November 29, 2005




Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective )

                  Currency Unit = GNF Francs
                         GNF 1 = US$ $0.000242
                          US$ 1 = GNF 4,130
               Appraisal: US$1 =      GNF 1,375

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     to December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



APL      Adaptable Program Lending
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
CBSDP   Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project
CRD     Rural Development Community (Communauté Rurale de
        Développement)
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
INT     Department of Institutional Integrity (World Bank)
MATD    Ministry of Territorial Administration and Decentralization
MEF     Ministry of Economics and Planning
MEFP    Ministry of Employment and Civil Service
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MTEF    Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTR     Mid Term Review
PDO     Project Development Objective
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSM     Public Sector Management
PSR     Project Status Report
QAG     Quality Assurance Group (World Bank)
TM      Task Manager
TTL     Task Team Leader
USD     United States Dollars
VCSP    Village Community Support Project



                 Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
              Country Director       Mamadou Dia
                Sector Manager       Helga Muller
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Stefanie Teggemann

                                           GUINEA
             CAPACITY BUILDING FOR SERVICE DELIVERY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P049716                                                  Project Name: GN-Srvc Delivery CB APL (FY00)
Team Leader: Stefanie Teggemann                                      TL Unit: AFTPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: GN-Srvc Delivery CB APL (FY00)                           L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1970; TF-25079;
                                                                                                     IDA-33110; TF-29428
   Country/Department: GUINEA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (80%); Sub-national government
                            administration (20%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/15/1998                                     Effective: 05/31/2000                05/31/2000
     Appraisal: 08/04/1999                                         MTR: 06/01/2002                  11/01/2002
      Approval: 12/21/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/01/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF TERRITORIAL ADMINISTRATION AND
                                           DECENTRALIZATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:                 Helga W. Muller                                Brian Levy
Team Leader at ICR:             Stefanie Teggemann                             Rudy Chizungu
ICR Primary Author:             Stefanie Teggemann; Rogerio
                                Pinto


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The CBSDP was conceived as a three phase, 12 year APL in support of the Government's decentralization
strategy.    Its long term development objective was to strengthen centralized and decentralized
administrative systems to provide effective public services to the rural population and empower local
institutions to take charge of their own needs. This objective was subdivided into more detailed objectives
for each phase. Phase I aimed at putting in place a decentralized service delivery system and community
empowerment plan in 24 Communautés Rurales de Developpement (CRDs) in four pilot prefectures,
focusing on four sectors (education, health, rural development and justice). It further sought to develop and
test a decentralized performance incentive system. In phase II, the project was to extend decentralized
service delivery to 12 other prefectures involving 60 CRDs, focusing on three additional sectors. It further
was supposed to deepen the community empowerment processes and implement the performance incentive
system. Finally, phase III was meant to consolidate the decentralized service delivery system and the local
empowerment processes, extending their application to the remaining 17 prefectures and 207 CRDs and
including the remaining sectors. It was to complete the decentralization process at CRD and prefecture
levels.

Phase I aimed to transfer financial, technical and institutional capacity to local governments and
communities and transform the prefecture administration from a command and control mode to a
facilitating and catalyst mode. More specifically, the project sought to implement administrative and
financial decentralization to improve accountability and capacity of local government and communities to
deliver better services to the rural population; develop decentralized management systems at prefecture and
CRD levels; establish effective communication channels between service providers and beneficiaries;
improve leadership and management capabilities through training; test performance-based incentives, and
initiate devolution of responsibilities to local government structures (CRDs and Communes urbaines).

3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives were not revised; however, one of four sectors - legal services - was never addressed. Although
the Mid Term Review (MTR) proposed a restructuring of project objectives, activities and implementation
structures, preparations to amend the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were overtaken by an
investigation by the Bank's Integrity Unit (INT) into allegations of corruption, which led to the suspension
of the project in August 2003. Three conditions were set to allow lifting of suspension, of which only one,
the prosecution of project officials implicated in the corruption case, was met, causing the project to close
on June 30, 2004.

Forensic Audit: Government, however, remained committed to carrying out a forensic audit of the project,
which had been a condition for lifting suspension as well as for a potential follow-up project in this sector.
The Bank consequently decided to retroactively extend the closing date to May 31, 2005 to allow financing
of this audit from the Credit proceeds. The findings and recommendations are expected to lead to reforms
improving Guinea's governance and fiduciary environment, thus improving the efficiency of public
spending and fiduciary compliance of World Bank and other donor projects. The forensic audit has been
completed and a draft final report submitted on November 29, 2005. Audit findings as well as findings
from the INT investigation and supervision missions substantiated the occurrence of violations of the DCA,
conflict of interest, theft and corruption, solicitation of kick-backs, non-compliance with World Bank
procurement and financial management standards and forgery of supporting documents accompanying
non-objections requests to the World Bank.




                                                      - 2 -

Table 1: Timeline of Events for the Guinea CBSDP


    Date                                                          Event
12/21/1999     Board Approval
05/31/2000     Effectiveness
10/2001        Supervision mission reports fiduciary concerns
12/2001        Second TTL appointed; rigorous supervision begins including downgrading of project performance ratings.
               Use of project sub-accounts at regional, prefecture and sous-prefecture level suspended due to perceived
               shortcomings in financial management (supporting documents for expenditures not available)
07/25/2002     Comments on qualified audit for year 2001 sent to Borrower
11/15/2002     Mid Term Review: Bank and Borrower teams identify weaknesses in design and implementation. The Bank
               team recommends drastic restructuring of the project and corrective action on implementation and fiduciary
               concerns.
06/2003        Supervision mission notes little progress in implementing recommendations from the MTR
07/2003        Investigation by the Bank's Department of Institutional Integrity (INT)
08/04/2003     Suspension of the project. WB communicates conditions for lifting of suspension
10/2003        INT and Country Director visit Guinea to agree on time line for implementation of conditions to lift
               suspension
Early 2004     Borrower dissolves PIU, transfers responsibility of the project to the Prime Minister's Office and appoints
               new Executive Secretary which improves responsiveness and diligence on part of the Borrower
06/09/2004     Criminal investigation against four members of the PIU comes to a close: Guinean Court issues verdict on
               three suspects
06/30/2004     Original Closing Date
09/2004        Second TTL retires; third TTL appointed
03/14/2005     Request for Retroactive Extension of Closing Date approved; project finances the cost of the forensic audit
               only
05/31/2005     Formally Revised Closing Date: project closes
06/2005        Forensic audit phase I
09/10/2005     Forensic audit phase II
11/29/2005     Draft forensic audit report submitted to the Government and the World Bank



3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of four components which were housed under the three main ministries overseeing the
project plus one component supporting project implementation.

Component 1: Decentralizing Public Expenditure Management - $3.66 million (under the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, MEF). This component sought to consolidate and deepen the budgetary reforms
undertaken since 1996. It had two primary objectives: (i) promote fiscal decentralization by shifting
responsibilities for expenditures and revenue management to local authorities and communities, and (ii)
assist local governments in implementing a bottom-up performance budgeting approach and promoting
decentralized resource mobilization. It further planned to consolidate the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF) and prepare manuals; set up decentralized budgeting and financial management
systems at prefecture and CRD levels; adopt new rules of budget classification capturing budgetary
resources accruing to prefecture and CRD levels; strengthen financial management in sector ministries,
prefectures and project implementation agencies, operating and maintaining a computerized financial
management information system and strengthen tracking and monitoring of budget transfers and their
impact at the local level.




                                                            - 3 -

Component 2: Decentralizing institutional accountability and capacity for service delivery to Local
Governments and Communities - $9.14 million (under the Ministry of Territorial Administration and
Decentralization, MATD). This component sought to underpin the Government's policy of administrative
decentralization by holding the Prefet accountable for coordination of service delivery to local
communities. The prefecture administration would thus become the prime mover and catalyst for the
empowerment of local communities, and the Prefet would be subject to dual accountability: to central
government and to local communities. To this end, the component sought to: (i) revise the institutional
framework, clarifying the role of central, regional, prefectoral and local administration; (ii) strengthen the
capacity of strategic and financial units at central, regional, prefectoral and CRD levels, including
establishment of decentralized delivery and management systems at prefecture and CRD levels; and (iii)
improve leadership and management capacity of elected officials and administrative staff by providing
training in planning and budgeting, project identification and preparation and program monitoring and
evaluation.

Component 3: Improving Communications with Beneficiaries - $0.41 million (also under MATD).
This component aimed to promote the active participation of beneficiaries in the delivery of services by
improving communications, development of a public information program and training of community
facilitators. Lines of communication were to be strengthened by improving the use of participatory
mechanisms between service providers and beneficiaries such as parent teacher associations, health center
management committees and farmers groups, and the establishment of Prefecture Development Councils,
which would facilitate decision-making and ensure information of communities and inclusion of their voice
and preferences. Community facilitators were to encourage collective problem solving between service
providers and communities.

Component 4: Introducing a Performance Incentive System - $4.18 million (under the Ministry of
Employment and Civil Service, MEFP).           This component sought to introduce a service delivery
performance incentive system for civil servants at prefectoral, sous-prefectoral and related central units as
well as CRDs and districts. Reward mechanisms were to include (i) a Sustainable Performance in Service
Delivery Fund for attainment of service delivery benchmarks; (ii) performance grants to finance
performance improvement subprojects to improve effectiveness in service delivery, as well as (iii) an award
at the CRD level to be determined in consultation with communities. Under the Sustainable Performance
in Service Delivery Fund, IDA was to finance sub-projects and the Government and IDA together would
finance monetary and non-monetary awards including goods and training.

Component 5: Project Coordination and Management - $3.61 million. Institutional arrangements for
project implementation consisted of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at the central level, local cells,
Component Coordinators, a Management Committee (Comité de Gestion) and a Steering Committee (
Comité d'Orientation). The PIU was charged with day to day administration of project implementation.
It was placed under MATD and comprised an Administrator, an M&E Specialist and fiduciary staff.
Local cells at regional, prefectoral and sous-prefectoral levels oversaw implementation of the project and
consisted of representatives from MATD at the deconcentrated level, the inspectors and directors of central
and sectoral departments involved in the project and, at the sous-prefectoral level, the president of the
CRDs.      Four Component Coordinators were appointed from within lead ministries to oversee
implementation of project activities related to their ministry and liaise with the PIU. The Component
Coordinators also constituted, together with the Administrator, the Management Committee which was
presided over by the Minister of MATD and charged with the coordination and monitoring of programmed
activities. Finally, the Steering Committee was chaired by the Prime Minister and comprised all ministers
concerned. Its role was to provide overall guidance and strategic direction and ensure consistency of



                                                    - 4 -

project activities with national policies and visions.

There were several weaknesses in the institutional set up which were compounded by a lack of government
will to use the created structures to exercise effective oversight over project implementation. First, the
creation of a new structure outside the existing government bureaucracy limited local ownership and
hindered mainstreaming of reform activities financed under the project.               Component Coordinators
provided an insufficient link into core ministries, partly due to the relatively low rank of some
Coordinators, which left the strategic and policy levels of their ministries beyond their reach. This resulted
in a disconnect between the needs of beneficiary ministries and what the project delivered, evidenced by a
flurry of studies that were carried out but rarely reviewed, disseminated or implemented. Second, the two
committees at the central level tasked with coordination and oversight, the Steering Committee and
Management Committee, were ineffective, leading to a lack of coordination across ministries and weak
oversight. The former only conducted two out of the seven meetings envisioned over the course of the
project and proved to be ineffective in addressing issues of policy coordination, strategic direction or
allegations of mismanagement of resources and conflict of interest as raised by World Bank management.
High level politicians were tasked with participation in these committees, which proved to be unrealistic
given competing demands on their time. It is unclear to what degree the local cells were effective in
representing the voice of their communities and influencing project decisions.

While the PDOs remain a high priority in the current CAS as well as Guinea's PRSP, the design of the
project, including its PDOs, was problematic. Specifically:

     (i) The objectives were too broad to be achievable and effectively monitorable.
     (ii) The PDOs did not include the sub-prefectures, the lowest level of deconcentrated government,
           despite their important role in local service delivery due to their geographic alignment and often
           symbiotic relationship with CRDs. Large amount of actual project activities were targeted at
           sub-prefectures.
     (iii) There was a strong mismatch between PDOs, actual project activities and results indicators,
           which compromised the project's ability to deliver on its objectives. Specifically, there was a
           sectoral and geographical disconnect:
         § A sectoral disconnect: Although the PDO was to improve service delivery in education, basic
               health, rural development and paralegal services, phase I did not cover the ministries
               responsible for delivering these services.          Project design seemed to assume that
               deconcentration and strengthening of crosscutting ministries (Finance, Planning, Public
               Service and Territorial Administration / Decentralization) alone would translate into better
               sectoral service delivery at the local level. For example, component 4 sought to develop a
               performance incentive system targeting public administration at large, which was not tied to
               either the main project objective or the overarching objective of promoting deconcentration
               and decentralization. In addition, as project preparation was carried out under the leadership
               of MATD, preparing sector ministries to deconcentrate services was not a priority. Instead,
               the project focused on strengthening the territorial administration of regional governments and
               "prefectures/sub-prefectures".
         § A geographical disconnect: While research during project preparation showed that most of the
               needs and capacity deficiencies existed at the local level, the project invested most heavily in
               central ministries and their reform agendas. The few project resources directed at the local
               level stayed mostly with the deconcentrated branches of the crosscutting ministries, thus
               supporting the government's deconcentration policy to the detriment of genuine devolution to
               local communities.
     (iv) The PDOs did not distinguish between deconcentration (i.e. transfer of responsibilities and



                                                      - 5 -

          resources to government entities such as the prefectures and sub-prefectures, geographically
          removed from the center but otherwise accountable to it) and devolution (i.e. transfer of
          responsibilities and resources to locally elected bodies or local government such as CRDs and
          municipalities), which led to confusion around concepts underlying subsequent reforms. The
          project supported a mixed approach: deconcentrated structures were to be strengthened while
          local communities were to be empowered.          The Government's Letter of Development Policy
          emphasized deconcentration with community participation and voice but stopped short of genuine
          devolution. As a result of this lack of clarity, the core components of a decentralization strategy,
          such as review and restructuring of the fiscal and administrative framework between devolved
          and deconcentrated units, were never articulated as such ­ and consequently not addressed to the
          degree that would have been necessary to make a dent in actual decentralization.
     (v) The division of labor with a parallel, community driven development project (the Village
         Community Support Project, VCSP) had not been articulated in sufficient clarity. While the
         CBSDP was intended to improve the supply of public services mainly at deconcentrated levels of
         government, the VCSP was to address the demand for such services at the CRD level. In
         practice, both projects intervened at the CRD level, leading to duplications in studies and
         interventions while under exploiting potential synergies.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised. The MTR proposed a fundamental restructuring of components to make
them more consistent with the PDOs by placing the decentralization of sector ministries front and center
and confining cross-cutting ministries to provide reform inputs as required by sector ministries to improve
decentralized delivery of service.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
No quality at entry assessment was carried out by QAG. A 2002 Quality of Supervision assessment
pointed out severe weaknesses with design (the panel found the initial design to be "unusually deficient"
due to its high level of complexity given the country context, inadequate linkages amongst the various
components and insufficient coordination with the VCSP and line ministries). It also found PIU capacity at
approval insufficient, especially with regards to procurement. The ICR agrees with this assessment and
highlights the following additional issues:

       § Performance indicators and triggers only partially reflected PDOs. In addition, triggers for
           moving from phase 1 to 2 and performance indicators were partially incongruent as only four of
           the eight triggers were included as key performance indicators, one indicator was not a trigger
           and one indicator displayed a different value than the corresponding trigger. This inconsistency
           allowed only for imperfect monitoring of project achievements, including its readiness to qualify
           for phase II. Only during implementation did these inconsistencies surface, prompting the PIU
           to develop its own set of indicators which were never agreed upon, leaving the project largely
           unmonitored. Some triggers were overly ambitious and misplaced given that phase I focused on
           cross-cutting ministries and not on the sector ministries responsible for decentralized service
           delivery. Improvements in sectoral service delivery were not achievable by the end of phase I.
           As a result, despite the well-established capacity in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) in the
           PIU, it never monitored a clear set of indicators. Evaluations typically were descriptive,
           limiting data to inputs and outputs only. During preparation and negotiation, greater attention
           should have been paid to the consistency and adequacy of indicators to ensure monitorability of
           project achievements.
       § Project objectives and design were insufficiently guided by assessment of local demand.
           There was no evidence that project objectives were set on the basis of empirical verification of



                                                     - 6 -

            demands at the local level or on the articulation of the shared roles between sub-prefectures and
            CRDs in service delivery. The base line study for M&E purposes was carried out after project
            launch, a questionable sequence of project activities.
       § There is no evidence of an attempt to assess the capacity of the Borrower to manage such a
            complex project with a wide range of components. The interdependence among components was
            not made explicit in the design, and articulation among them was lacking during execution.
       § Finally, the Bank underestimated the fiduciary risk posed by Guinea's weak fiduciary
            environment and took insufficient mitigating measures, which eventually led to the suspension
            and closure of the project.

Due to these weaknesses in project design and implementation arrangements as well as other shortcomings
as described above, this ICR judges quality at entry to be unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The deficient design and implementation arrangements paired with weak Government commitment and
leadership made successful implementation an almost impossible task. The occurrence of corruption and
other abuses, including the appointment of insufficiently qualified staff as well as Government's reluctance
to take corrective action, further undermined any remaining prospects of achieving the PDOs or correcting
weaknesses in design and implementation. This unfortunate interaction of deficiencies meant that very
little was achieved.

The following illustrates the gap between envisioned and realized activities, comparing actual activities and
their impact (i) to triggers for transitioning to phase 2 and (ii) to outcome and impact indicators and then
attempts an assessment of progress towards actual achievement of PDOs. It has to be cautioned that the
inconsistency in indicators and the lack of monitoring and evaluation by the Government make
evidence-based conclusions hard to reach. Disbursements stood at 18% at project closing, thus only a
fraction of envisioned activities have actually been implemented.

       (i)   Triggers: Of the eight triggers defined in the PAD, only four were largely achieved to some
             degree and even these were not necessarily attributable to CBSDP interventions. Starting in
             2001, allocation of the head tax (Impot Minimum de Developpement, now "contribution au
             développement local" or local development fee) was changed in favor of CRDs, granting
             CRDs and municipalities 75%, their sub-divisions (districts and quarters) 15% and
             sub-prefectures 10% of tax revenue. While this falls short of the 100% value set as the
             trigger, it strengthened the financial base of CRDs vis-à-vis its deconcentrated counterparts,
             the sub-prefectures. In January 2005, the head tax was increased from GNF 2,000 to GNF
             5,000. Local financial autonomy was further enhanced by a change in allocation of other taxes
             through decree No 57, 2001 which increased the share of taxes going to deconcentrated and
             devolved entities. Prefecture Development Councils have been established in five prefectures
             and MATD has issued a circular letter announcing the establishment of more Councils in all
             remaining prefectures by the end of 2005. These Councils were to enhance the voice of
             non-state actors in local decision-making and as such, had been a key pillar of Guinea's
             decentralization strategy as formulated in the Letter of Development Policy. However, it must
             be noted that a circular letter is not a strong legal basis for the establishment of these Councils
             and it is unlikely that all prefectures will have such Councils established by the end of 2005.
             In addition, the effectiveness of these Councils in enhancing downward accountability to
             communities remains uncertain. Participatory Mechanisms at local level: the quality and



                                                       - 7 -

              participation of local communities in local planning has improved. CRDs now develop their
              own local development plans and annual investment plans, an achievement mainly attributable
              to the VCSP. However, these plans are not yet harmonized with national planning processes,
              notably the public investment programs. Project Operating Cost: At least 20% were covered
              through national resources, though not in 2003.
        (ii) Outcome and Impact Indicators: None of the outcome and impact indicators were achieved,
              with the exception of the financing of 20% of project operating cost from national resources.
        (iii) Overall Assessment of Achievement of PDOs: Modest progress has been made towards
              "empowerment of local communities to take charge of their own needs by transferring the
              necessary financial, technical and institutional capacity to local governments and
              communities". While this is mainly attributable to the VCSP, the CBSDP contributed through
              provision of training and studies, which may have influenced policy-making in favor of
              increased powers of local communities. These achievements include greater responsibility for
              CRDs and municipalities in collecting and using local revenue, a greater allocation of local
              taxes to communities and provision of training for CRD, sub-prefectures and prefecture staff
              in financial management, procurement, leadership etc.; this had a modest effect on the level of
              competency of local officials. However, it has been difficult to ascertain the extent to which
              these additional resources have translated into more and better services to local citizens, and
              not only to cover operational costs, which were chronically under-funded.

The project also, through various studies on a code for decentralized entities, a national planning system
and a local procurement code, contributed to the furtherance of decentralization policy in Guinea, although
many of these studies were only translated into national legislation after the suspension of the project. A
framework for fiscal decentralization has not been developed or implemented. However, the project fell
short of attaining other objectives crucial for the achievement of its overall PDOs. Notably, the project:

        § Failed to engage CRDs to pursue their institutional development as provided for in its
              objectives.
        § Failed to transform the prefecture administration from a command and control mode to a
              facilitating and catalyst mode. In part, this failure was explained by the persisting lack of
              clarity of division of labor between the sous-prefectures and CRDs and, more generally, by the
              difficulty such a transition of roles and behavior poses regardless of the particular country
              context.    To be successful, such a transition would have to be carefully orchestrated,
              persistently led by the top, and accompanied by incentives for deconcentrated staff to change
              their behavior towards a greater community-orientation.
        § Failed to develop decentralized management systems at prefecture and CRD levels.
        § Failed to establish effective communication channels between service providers and
              beneficiaries.
        § Never tested performance-based incentives.

Given the limited outcomes of the project, achievement of objectives is rated as unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs by components reflected the disconnect between development objectives and project
implementation. The following highlights major achievements and shortcomings per component. More
details are provided in annex 1.

Component 1 on Decentralizing Public Expenditure Management (disbursed $0.75 million out of $3.66
million): The two main objectives of this component, i.e. the introduction of a bottom-up, integrated



                                                      - 8 -

performance budgeting system and the strengthening of tracking and monitoring of budget transfers and
impact at the local level, have not been achieved. Efforts have been scattered or were stalled mid-way, thus
falling short of achieving ultimate objectives. However, this component did generate some outputs that
contributed to the overarching objective of deconcentrating and decentralizing resource use to local levels
of government, including: a new budget classification system at central level but ­ contrary to the
objectives - not yet at the devolved level; publication of the national budget highlighting deconcentrated
expenditures; the decentralization of certain taxes, most notably the head tax; greater transparency in
resource allocation through computerization of public accounts (chaîne des dépenses); training of senior
officials and technical staff from the economic ministries in leadership, management and computerized
accounting; training of local civil servants in procurement and financial control; and training of technicians
from the planning ministry in economic analysis and national accounts. The training provided to staff of
sub-prefectures on decentralized financial management was judged to be useful by participants, although
not sustained with follow up training. However, training abroad provided to senior civil servants on
leadership and management was clearly not cost-effective and added little to the achievement of PDOs. In
addition, a number of studies were carried out which informed policy-making. Notably, a base line study
on local development planning, plan implementation and financial execution enabled the issuance of a
decree strengthening planning at the regional and local level, including the community and prefecture levels.
A study on local procurement eventually led to changes to existing procurement legislation in 2003,
establishing standards for procurement at the level of deconcentrated entities through defining appropriate
thresholds and procedures granting them greater autonomy. Furthermore, MTEF studies and manuals were
completed but implementation stalled due to objection by Ministry of Finance authorities regarding its
pertinence and utility. Although not included in the work plan of the project, an audit of four public
enterprises was funded with limited consequences in terms of prosecution of officials found guilty of fraud.

Given the component's modest contribution to improve capacity at the local level and inform national
policy-making it is rated marginally satisfactory.

Component 2 on Decentralizing Institutional Accountability and Capacity for Service Delivery to Local
Governments and Communities (disbursed $0.93 million out of $8.12 million):               The design of this
component was plagued by inconsistencies in objectives and activities in the PAD, performance indicators
in the results matrix and actual activities financed during implementation. For purposes of evaluation, the
objectives defined in the results matrix are used as a reference point:

     (i) Revising the institutional framework, clarifying the roles, structures and staffing pattern of central
          departments, regional authorities, prefecture administration and CRDs in support of the
          decentralization strategy: The main accomplishment of this component was technical assistance
          that drafted a decentralization code, which informed two pieces of legislation: the Charter for
          Participatory Territorial Governance and the Code on Local Communities, both in draft, which
          laid the ground for future decentralization initiatives. While this study was well received by
          Government, it duplicated a similar one conducted by the VCSP (Institutional Assessment to
          Define the Roles and Responsibilities of Deconcentrated and Devolved Administration) under the
          leadership of the same ministry, MATD. This illustrates the lack of coordination and policy
          oversight exercised by Government and the lack of coordination within Government of two
          decentralization agendas pursued in tandem, epitomized by the VCSP and the CBSDP
          respectively: a devolution approach, strengthening local communities, and a deconcentration
          approach, which ought to be tightly integrated if to prove successful in implementation. A second
          study on staffing requirements for the territorial administration was also completed with no
          practical consequences.



                                                     - 9 -

     (ii) The two other objectives of this component (strengthening central departments, sector agencies,
          regional authorities and prefecture administration, to be accountable to local communities as well
          as strengthening the capacity of CRDs to provide services to rural populations and to represent
          their interests at the Prefecture Development Councils) were only partially supported by project
          activities and therefore not achieved.      The one activity that most closely answers to these
          objectives is a feasibility study on the establishment of the Prefecture Development Councils (see
          above).

The project also trained elected officials and administrative staff in leadership and management, planning
and budgeting, project identification and preparation and program monitoring and evaluation (see also
component 1).

In addition, this component made substantial investments in rehabilitation of office buildings, provision of
equipment and coverage of operating costs with the aim of improving the physical environment and means
for better service delivery at prefecture, sub-prefecture and CRD levels. Amongst the investments was the
renovation of respective office buildings of the four covered prefectures (no rehabilitation was carried out
at the sous-prefecture or CRD level) as well as provision of equipment ranging from vehicles, motorcycles,
type writers, computers and printers, radios, photocopiers, air conditioning, furniture etc. to central
government, regions, prefectures and sub-prefectures (who often shared with CRDs).               Overall, this
component was ill-designed as the investments made aimed at improving the working environment and
service delivery and not the "management systems" or accountability mechanisms of decentralized service
delivery described in the PAD. Some equipment was never delivered to its intended beneficiaries; other
equipment was of poor quality or not suitable for local circumstances. It seems more appropriate to
purchase jeeps rather than four by fours if the objective is to provide better access to services. Similarly,
more complex equipment such as computers were not always properly maintained and used. Nevertheless,
field visits found that especially low tech equipment such as motorcycles and radio communication
equipment did have a modest impact on the ability of deconcentrated units and CRDs to deliver services to
its communities. According to statistics gathered by the prefectures and sub-prefectures in pilot areas, the
quantity of service delivery increased visibly during the project period as service delivery personnel in rural
development, health and education used motorcycles to provide services and verify its quality. However,
the ICR mission noted great differences in effectiveness of use of these motorcycles depending on the
maintenance systems in place and enforced at different sub-prefectures. By contrast, investments in
physical infrastructure did not have a visible effect on service delivery. Furthermore, vehicles provided
were often kept by the Préfets for personal and official use and its impact on the quantity of service
delivery could not be verified. Finally, the provision of project accounts to prefectures and CRDs to cover
operating expenses such as salaries for administrative staff, travel allowances, gas, maintenance and repair
etc. proved to be another questionable investment. The use of these accounts was suspended after its first
year due to apparent failure to follow rules for use of funds and procedures. Overall, achievements were
too few to be rated any other than marginally unsatisfactory.

Component 3 on Improving Communication with the Beneficiaries (disbursement included in component
2):   A study on a communications and information strategy was concluded but never implemented.
Training of community facilitators was carried out but did not yield tangible results in terms of facilitating
problem-solving between communities and service providers. There is no evidence of improved use of
participatory mechanisms between service providers and beneficiaries such as parent teacher associations,
health center management committees and farmers groups.              Prefecture Development Councils were
established after project suspension and their effectiveness remains to be seen. The only tangible benefit of
project interventions may have been achieved through the provision of communications equipment and solar
batteries ­ which had not even been anticipated as an activity under this component. Due to its negligible


                                                      - 10 -

impact, this component is rated unsatisfactory.

Component 4 on Introducing a Performance Incentive System (disbursed $0.16 million out of $3.55
million):    Neither the Sustainable Performance Service Delivery Fund nor any of the other award
mechanisms envisioned under this component ever got off the ground due to long delays in preparing
by-laws and lack of consensus within the Ministry on its implementation. Although intended to create
incentives for front-line civil servants to provide quality services at the local level, this component was
heavy on studies that did not focus on this aspect of performance, and yielded no tangible results. It
focused instead on advancing the ministry's civil service reform agenda, involving revision and
dissemination of its legal and regulatory framework. This component is therefore rated unsatisfactory.

Component 5 on Project Coordination and Management (disbursed $1.14 million out of $3.07 million):
Project Coordination and Management was the most problematic and at the center of the failures that
ultimately triggered the project's suspension. Its performance, combined with the manner in which the
Management Committee operated and the lack of oversight exercised by the Steering Committee, was
largely responsible for the project's poor performance. Its outputs consisted of launching the project by
putting in place the local management structures, issuing operational manuals and setting up the financial
management and procurement systems. An elaborate system of monitoring and evaluation was designed
but not implemented. This component is rated highly unsatisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As a capacity building project, institutional development was a central element, understood as systems of
incentives and rules to drive decentralization and service delivery.        The project sought to transfer
"institutional capacity" to local levels of government, transform the role of the prefecture administration
from a command and control mode to a facilitator and catalyst of development and to that end also
transform the capacity of the central government. However, none of these objectives were achieved.
Implementation of "institutional capacity" was limited to technocratic solutions mostly in the form of
studies, training and equipment that were treated as stand-alone interventions with little impact, devoid of
an overarching strategy or Government vision. Many studies were neither implemented nor disseminated;
training was ad hoc with little linkage to crafted reforms; equipment and operating expenses were provided
without clearly formulated objectives, operating and maintenance systems and independent evaluation of
impact and appropriateness of usage.

The fact that the project for a long period tolerated mismanagement and corruption led to a deterioration of
standards ­ which ran counter to the institutional development objectives of the project. Only the
suspension of the project and, eventually, its closure, together with Government's actions to rectify and
punish corrupt behavior, most notably through the carrying out of a forensic audit, aimed at reestablishing
norms of behavior corresponding to World Bank project standards.

What the project did achieve, although in a fragmented way, was a modest improvement of local capacity
and providing inputs to pieces of legislation that define the decentralization strategy of the Government
more clearly. These include legislation on local procurement, assignment of tax revenue, budget planning,
establishment of Prefecture Development Councils, a draft law on participatory territorial governance, and



                                                     - 11 -

a draft code on local communities. However, the concept of decentralization which underpins the current
Government framework is still very much in line with a strong "tutelle" of the central government (i.e.
deconcentration) and is not based on full recognition of the autonomy of locally elected leaders. On
institutional development impact, the project is assessed as negligible.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Although the deficient design of the project was not the Government's fault, it was not beyond its control.
Given its role in preparing the project, Government should have influenced these decisions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Many factors affecting adversely the implementation and outcome of this project were subject to
Government control, including wide spread corruption under the project, lack of strategic guidance and
coordination of activities within the project and across various projects, and lack of oversight that would
have provided necessary corrections as the project unfolded. Corruption: Conflict of interest began early
in the project and continued throughout, augmented by corrupt practices and mismanagement. While
corruption is known to be pervasive in Guinea, especially in procurement, protecting the project against its
detrimental effects as well as responding to World Bank concerns on these issues was within the
Government's control. However, Government's efforts prior to suspension were slow and half-hearted.
Strategic guidance and political commitment: Sustained support to an effective decentralization policy as
contained in the Development Policy Letter was very much within the control of Government and yet it
failed to enforce it.    Coordination and oversight: Mostly due to shortcomings of the Steering and
Management Committees, Component Coordinators were kept outside the mainstream of decision-making
in the ministries relevant for the implementation of the project. Component 1 generated a number of studies
which were not always aligned with the strategic priorities of MEF. The component coordinator did not
interface properly with the decision-making levels of the ministry and consequently did not represent the
ministry's strategic thinking. This led to ad hoc requests from the Secretary General of the ministry
directly to the TTL, circumventing the official channels for approval of project activities. The PIU
proceeded to implement component activities without top level guidance, a critical disconnect with far
reaching implications for the success of the project. The Steering Committee should have provided
guidance to the Management Committee to keep the project in focus and on target in light of the
performance indicators and triggers. In addition, both Committees should have played an active role in
coordinating CBSDP activities with those of the VCSP, thus avoiding the duplication and contradiction in
policy-development which characterized CBSDP implementation

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU became the epicenter of mismanagement. Appointments to the PIU were riddled with conflict of
interest (for instance, the lead government negotiator during preparation became the head of the PIU and
certain other members of the negotiating team became Component Coordinators) and irregularities (the
Financial Management Specialist had briefly appeared on the World Bank during preparation and was
recruited into the PIU despite his relatively low ranking in the selection process; the Procurement Specialist
had resigned from a previous post under allegations of corrupt behavior). Procurement and financial
management functions at the PIU were persistently weak, leading to insufficient compliance with
procurement standards and practices and integrity failures, resulting in delays in execution and therefore
contributing significantly to the failure to achieve the PDOs. The under-performing procurement and
financial management specialists of the PIU were not removed in due time.

The PIU abused its authority by procuring a variety of perks for personal benefit under the project. These
included special allowances for housing, travel, gasoline, cars for personal use, international travel and


                                                     - 12 -

training, clearly above and beyond what was required and/or appropriately covered by the DCA. World
Bank management urged a supervision mission in September of 2001 to address these matters in the field
and communicated its concerns in a letter from the Country Director to the Chair of the Steering
Committee. However, there were no attempts by the Management Committee to arrest such practices;
Government response was late and inadequate.

Implementation started with an excessive number of studies, some clearly not on the project's critical path
to deliver on its development objectives. This had the effect of slowing down project implementation in
addition to creating numerous opportunities for internal rent seeking and, in some cases, flagrant conflicts
of interest among Component Coordinators, consultants and senior civil servants, who placed themselves as
paid members of study teams. When questioned about these practices, the PIU pointed out that it could not
control them as they were within the ministry's "claims" on the project.

While many of these inadequacies were under the control of the implementing agency, the Steering and
Management Committees could have taken more prompt and decisive action as requested repeatedly by the
Bank. In retrospect, the composition of the Management Committee proved to be problematic given that its
members at the same time were charged with implementing activities and therefore provided oversight over
themselves. This situation was allowed to persist due to the absence of a functioning Steering Committee
which consisted of ministers and chaired by the Prime Minister and convened only twice during the life time
of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total estimated cost of the project was USD21 million for phase 1, with IDA contributing USD19
million and the Government USD2 million.           Disbursements at suspension were considerably behind
schedule due to implementation planning which conditioned many concrete project interventions on the
completion of studies and implementation of recommendations. Furthermore, the procurement cycle was
delayed due to repeated returns of non objection requests due to faulty preparation. Operating cost
accounts at the local level - which might have accelerated disbursements - had to be suspended due to
irregularities in use of funds. At the time of the MTR in September 2002 (well past the mid-point),
disbursement was at 16%, far behind the estimated disbursement rate of 78% by the end of 2002. The
project closed with a rate of disbursement of 18%, factoring in the cost of the forensic audit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
This ICR assesses the likelihood of sustainability in terms of (i) maintenance of facilities and equipment
provided by the project, (ii) institutional development impact and (iii) continued commitment of the central
government accompanied by a demonstrable increase in demand at the community level, to ensure that the
improvements introduced by the project are adequately maintained. Equipment: Field visits suggested
discontinuity of the equipment provided, despite the general show of value attributed to the equipment.
With regards to building maintenance, the sample inspected during the ICR field mission did not suggest
sustainability of most investments.       Institutional development: This has been rated as marginally
unsatisfactory. The little that has been achieved in terms of new legislation is judged to be sustainable.
Policy commitment: There was a clear lack of Government commitment and engagement during project
implementation. After project suspension, as soon as disbursements were discontinued, the project ground
to a halt. However, Government attention to the project increased with the shifting of implementation
responsibility to the Prime Minister's Office and the appointment of a new Minister of MATD, as
evidenced by efforts at the highest level to salvage the project by correcting the integrity failures and
bringing it out of suspension. It was in fact only after the appointment of the new Minister that the local



                                                     - 13 -

decentralization code financed under the project was actually translated into legislation, expressing a
renewed commitment to a policy of deconcentration with community participation. Government has at
several occasions reiterated its interest in continued Bank support to finance implementation of its
decentralization policy. Overall, sustainability of the project is rated unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given severe problems in fiduciary standards and poor results of the CBSDP, a potential follow-up
operation is conceivable only on the condition that the Government completes the ongoing forensic audit
and implements its recommendations to ensure a sound fiduciary environment which would benefit the
entire World Bank portfolio in Guinea. A potential new operation would have to take into account the
following recommendations, drawing lessons from the experience of the CBSDP:

      § Simplify project design and involve sector ministries as proposed in the MTR report
      § Address some of the underlying governance weaknesses portrayed in the findings and
         recommendations of the MTR as well as the forensic audit
      § Begin project      preparation by building on the considerable achievements of the VCSP (i.e.
         institutionalizing its achievements and linking it to central and deconcentrated government roles
         and practices). Use community demand to inform priorities for intervention

Focusing on the governance of decentralization would improve the few accomplishments of this project and
would create an opportunity to demonstrate that decentralization can be assisted by an externally funded
project with high standards of integrity and free of corruption.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The operation was aligned with the CAS and was part of its key pillar on governance, decentralization and
institutional capacity.    The Bank invested substantially in staff time for identification, preparation,
appraisal, and negotiations (118.6 staff weeks). Although the TTL at the time was new to the Bank, he was
given expert consulting assistance and was advised by more seasoned staff.

However, there were major shortcomings in the Bank's performance during project preparation:

         1.    Design of the project was too complex, riddled with inconsistencies and not sufficiently
               based on solid analysis of priority needs.        Design revealed misconceptions about the
               deconcentration versus devolution approaches and their relevance for service delivery.
               Finally, despite the CBSDP conception as a partner operation to the VCSP, these linkages
               were insufficiently reflected in the PAD, leaving resolution of overlapping mandates to the
               implementation stage, which never occurred.
         2.    The Bank overestimated the Government's capacity to assume such a complex project and
               underestimated the substantial risks of operating in a country environment plagued by a
               culture of corruption and impunity. At the time of project preparation, investigations were
               ongoing regarding fraud in the Government privatization program. However, the issue of
               integrity was conspicuously absent from the risk factors listed in the PAD. Knowing what the
               Bank team knew at the time of preparation, it should have signaled corruption as a risk factor
               and insisted on stringent measures to shelter the project against such practices.
         3.    Sequencing of project activities: Implementation planning included a very long list of studies
               prepared with the help of the Bank. In retrospect, this form of implementation planning was ill



                                                     - 14 -

              advised as the procurement, implementation and completion of these studies essentially kept
              the project idle for a considerable time. Many concrete activities could have been launched
              from the start without waiting for study results.

The Bank's performance in lending is rated unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
A Quality of Supervision Assessment (October 2002) rated Bank supervision as marginally satisfactory.
This rating, rather than a lower one, was mostly due to management's efforts towards mid-term to arrest
the project's deterioration. It was only after the first TTL left the Bank that management decided to
conduct supervision on a more rigorous basis. In fact, in subsequent Project Status Reports (PSRs)
(starting with number 5 of 3/18/2002), project performance ratings were downgraded consistently from S
to U, as were project components, with the exception of components 1 and 5. These, however, were also
downgraded to U in subsequent PSRs. The supervision period that followed was mostly concerned with
damage control, intensive scrutiny of proposed activities and attempts to salvage the project. The MTR
was done in a highly collaborative fashion between the Borrower and Bank teams and provided a detailed
analysis of project achievements and failures. However, MTR recommendations were not implemented by
Government, which led the TTL to pursue a threat of suspension on the grounds of poor implementation
performance. However, this was overtaken by an investigation of the World Bank's Department of
Integrity into suspicions of fraud and malpractice, the confirmation of which led to the immediate
suspension of the project. During the suspension period, the Bank team stayed engaged and supported the
Borrower in fulfilling the conditions for lifting suspension.

The main shortcomings in supervision occurred during the first 18 months of project implementation. As
documented in the Quality of Supervision Assessment, during this initial period, Bank supervision focused
on PIU processes and activities rather than on the larger development objectives, thus overlooking design
issues and implementation constraints which contributed significantly to the poor performance of the
project. Despite the need to pay special attention to fiduciary issues, the Bank's Financial Management
Specialist was not involved in project supervision until October 2001; thereafter, he made monthly
supervision missions to ensure implementation of the action plan agreed upon during the October 2001
supervision mission. QAG also noted that it would have been useful to complement the supervision team
with a decentralization and governance specialist and to involve sector colleagues from health and
education.

Finally, the Bank should have prevented a case of flagrant conflict of interest in the very beginning of the
project. The consultant who had played a crucial role in the design and appraisal of the project on the
Bank's side was selected to provide major pieces of the project under contract with the Borrower. This
apparent conflict of interest set the wrong standards for implementation and arguably signaled to the
Government that conflicts of interest would be tolerated. During implementation, conflicts of interest
abounded in the form of civil servants surfacing on consultant contracts as team members and other
examples.    Overall, the earlier QAG rating on quality of supervision is maintained as marginally
satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
This ICR rates Bank performance as unsatisfactory during preparation and initial supervision but as
marginally satisfactory during the remainder of supervision. To the Bank's credit, once severe problems
had surfaced, the Bank made a concerted effort to turn the project around and put supervision on a more
diligent and rigorous basis. Moreover, the Bank demonstrated high diligence in pursuing the integrity
failures of the project and managing the suspension process. Subsequent measures to lift suspension were



                                                     - 15 -

pursued in a constructive manner and in collaboration with the Borrower, leading to the conduct of a
forensic audit and the continuation of policy dialogue around fiduciary, governance and decentralization
issues. However, given the gravity of initial design flaws and misjudgments of fiduciary risks paired with
incidences of tolerance of conflict of interest and other breaches of good fiduciary management, the Bank's
overall performance is rated as marginally unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation of this project by the Borrower was characterized by high dependence on consultant inputs.
The Bank team had designated its own consultant to work closely with the preparation team, which seems
to have had made preparation essentially donor-driven. It appears that the preparation team was motivated
by the prospect of becoming involved in the management of the project; hence it yielded to most
suggestions of the Bank consultant. Borrower participation in the preparation phase consisted mostly of
officials from the core ministries, led by MATD - there was little if any involvement of the sector ministries
concerned with delivering the project's intended outcome. Borrower performance in preparation is rated as
unsatisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
High level authorities, for the most part, were absent from project implementation. The chairman of the
Steering Committee, the Prime Minister, only acted on the basis of recommendations by the chairman of the
Management Committee who was not keen on taking corrective action on issues of propriety of conduct by
the PIU and implementation effectiveness. Letters of the Country Director raising these concerns were
responded to with delay, forcing the Country Manager and Country Director to bring these matters up
repeatedly when the latter visited the country. Only then did Government respond but fell short of
resolution of issues at hand.      Support to the decentralization policy as contained in the Letter of
Development Policy was nominal. When inquired at mid-term, members of the Steering Committee were
not aware of the Letter of Development Policy and its implications for the project. After suspension, an
effort was made to rekindle Government support.            It was only when the PIU was dissolved and
responsibility for the project was moved to the Prime Minister's Office and the then Chief of Staff became
the new Executive Secretary that the Borrower became responsive to Bank requests to address the lifting of
suspension and to bring the project back on track.         Despite late improvements, overall Government
performance in implementation is rated unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Due to mismanagement, corruption and other management shortcomings of the PIU (see section 5.3), its
implementation performance is rated as highly unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
It is rated as unsatisfactory during most of project implementation and marginally satisfactory when
addressing the suspension crises and the corrective measures to lift suspension.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons from comparable public sector reform projects hold that three factors are crucial to the successful
implementation of reforms: First and foremost, a favorable political environment that provides the power
base, incentives and commitment to implement even difficult reforms.                Second, implementation
arrangements and staffing need to be well-embedded in existing administrative and political structures.
Third, program components need to be appropriately tailored to the country context, must be technically
sound and strategically sequenced. In the case of the CBSDP, none of these conditions were met. The
lessons learned from this project can be divided into issues relating to design, especially for



                                                     - 16 -

decentralization projects, and management and supervision of such projects in weak fiduciary
environments.

On design, the lessons are:

     § Decentralization reforms are complex undertakings, requiring careful consultation, review of
       options and development of an overarching legal framework considering political, administrative
       and fiscal aspects in tandem. Interventions need to be guided by this overarching and well-thought
       out strategy ­ piecemeal activities such as stand alone legislation, scattered training and provision
       of equipment will not yield expected results.
     § Legislation will change roles, responsibilities and behavior of all actors at central, deconcentrated
       and devolved levels.       Understanding the political economy of reform and anticipating
       opposition needs to inform project planning; a change management strategy will have to be
       devised for implementation; and political will, epitomized in a decentralization champion within top
       levels of Government needs to be charged with project oversight to provide strategic guidance,
       coordination and leadership in continuously pulling the country towards the agreed vision.
     § The design of such projects should rest on a full understanding of how deconcentrated central
       government units interact with local governments to provide services to communities.
       Designers should not assume that improved capacity at the central level necessarily translates into
       capacity at the deconcentrated level and then into improved interaction with local governments.
       The incentive structure and accountability relationships need to be understood and influenced
       carefully if one expects service delivery to be affected.
     § Subsidiarity in relation to national and sub-national government should prevail and core
       ministries should provide only broad core functions unsuited for local governments, leaving the
       "retail" provision of services to deconcentrated sector units of service ministries. In light of this
       principle, the revision of the role of "prefectures" and "sub-prefectures" in service delivery vis-à-vis
       local government should be a target of project assistance.
     § The design of these projects should treat deconcentration and devolution jointly, especially in
       countries with strong "tutelle" principles and practices and stark differences in capacity between
       deconcentrated units and local authorities, as was the case in Guinea.             The separation of
       deconcentration and devolution, covered by different projects (CBSDP and VCSP), proved
       counterproductive and ineffective.

On project management and supervision, the lessons are:

     § Engagement with the Borrower during preparation should ensure that those involved are
       motivated to provide the best assessment of the country's needs and to empower the likely
       implementing agencies to take on the responsibilities of executing the project. The situation that
       evolved around CBSDP, where the team preparing and negotiating the project became its
       contracted managers, constitutes a conflict of interest and should be avoided.
     § The Bank should set and enforce ethical standards at the outset, and be particularly careful in
       the selection of consultants that assist in project preparation. Early transgressions by the Borrower
       or consultants should be treated as a bright line and used as an opportunity to enforce standards
       and communicate clearly World Bank rules and procedures. Bank management needs to ensure
       that, once enhanced, these standards are adhered to and act swiftly in case of non-compliance.
     § Rather than setting up an independent PIU, management responsibility should be entrusted to
       suitable government units, equipped for the task.
    § Coordination is paramount in a decentralization project involving several ministries and spanning



                                                    - 17 -

        central and local levels, supported by different projects and donors. In crafting coordination and
        oversight structures, a balance needs to be achieved between wide representation and operability of
        established bodies on the one hand and high level of representation and availability on the other. In
        the case of the CBSDP, the fact that the Steering Committee was presided over by the Prime
        Minister and staffed with ministers meant that it rarely convened and as such proved ineffective.
        Ensuring regular communication and flow of information between all stakeholders is equally
        important.
     § Representation and voice of prime beneficiaries: local authorities and communities should play a
        crucial role in the design and implementation of such projects and be represented in the oversight
        committee.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


7.1 Project Design

7.1.1   The Initial TTL

The original TTL was new in the Bank. In spite of the fact that the TTL benefited from the assistance of an
expert consultant and received advice from more seasoned staff, the TTL should definitely have possessed
expert knowledge of the sector while working in the Bank. This was not the case. This caused the
problems encountered in the project, since the Borrower was not aware of the lack of experience of the
TTL. This partly explains the poor design of the project. The very long list of studies, approved by the
World Bank, became an obstacle during the initial phase of the project.

7.1     Supervision

Shortcomings in supervision and the lack of involvement of specialists in decentralization/governance,
finance, health or education in the beginning of the project were major factors contributing to the poor
performance of the project.

Consequently, we believe that the Bank should receive the rating "unsatisfactory" for the supervision
phase and "satisfactory" during the time when the project was under suspension.

7.2     Project Sustainability

The change in the agency responsible for the Project and the nomination of an Executive Secretary, and the
leadership of the new Minister for Decentralization lay the ground for greater sustainability of the project.
We believe that the sustainability of the Project was "unlikely" during implementation and "likely" during
the suspension period and the undertaking of corrective measures.

7.3     Transition towards Regular Operations

A new project should take into account the following recommendations drawing on the lessons and
experience of the CBSDP:

   1.   The management of the components must be returned to implementing ministries under overall
        guidance of the Secretary Generals. This institutional arrangement would replace the PIU and



                                                    - 18 -

        Component Coordinators as they existed previously.
   2.   A steering committee ("comité de pilotage") would be in charge of overall policy orientation and
        include: the Chief of Staff at the Prime Minister's Office as chair, Secretary Generals of concerned
        ministries and representatives of the Prefecture Councils ("conseils préfectoraux") of the
        prefectures covered under the Project.
   3.   Establish a management committee ("comité de gestion") comprising the Executive Secretary as
        chair and heads of departments representing the ministries in charge of coordination of project
        activities and which monitor implementation progress and ensure overall quality of activities.
   4.   As to the question of monitoring and evaluation of the Project, the Executive Secretary will be
        assisted by Project staff comprising a financial management specialist, a procurement specialist
        and a project coordinator, all of which will be seconded from the civil service.
   5.   Rectify and correct the weaknesses of governance as identified in the findings and
        recommendations of the MTR as well as the forensic audit.
   6.   In preparing the new project, build on the considerable achievements of the VCSP while avoiding
        duplications.
   7.   Base identification of priorities of interventions on the demand of rural communities.
   8.   Focus on the governance of the decentralization.
   9.   Put the decentralization of sector ministries front and center and support cross cutting ministries as
        to enable sector ministries to improve service delivery at the decentralized level.

(b) Cofinanciers:



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



10. Additional Information




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                           1
                    Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
Strengthen centralized and decentralized system to   1. At least 70% of central government budgetary Not achieved: Budget transfers go to
provide effective public services to the rural       allocations to sectors go to rural communities.  deconcentrated government units, not
population. Empower local institutions to take charge                                                 CRDs. On goods and services, in 2004,
of their needs.                                                                                       70% of executed budget resources were
                                                                                                      allocated to deconcentrated levels in
                                                                                                      education, 37% in health and 9% in rural
                                                                                                      development (these figures do no include
                                                                                                      development budget and salaries).

                                                                                                      However:
                                                                                                      Legislation on tax allocation changed to
                                                                                                      grant greater share of and greater
                                                                                                      responsibility for tax collection to local
                                                                                                      communities: Decrees of 2000 and 2001
                                                                                                      change tax allocation in favor of
                                                                                                      deconcentrated and devolved entities.
                                                                                                      CRDs for instance receive 75% of head tax
                                                                                                      (up from 50%), 80% of land tax (up from
                                                                                                      22%), 80% of local business tax (up from
                                                                                                      14%) and 30% of trade tax (up from
                                                                                                      20%). In addition, there have been
                                                                                                      substantial increases in head tax amount
                                                                                                      and collection rates.
                                                     2. 50% increase in the quality of services       Only anecdotal evidence: increases in the
                                                     provided                                         quantity of services delivered in pilot
                                                                                                      prefectures and sub-prefectures during
                                                                                                      project period but no data available on the
                                                                                                      quality of services rendered.
                                                     3. 90% of public agencies are under a            None
                                                     performance-based appraisal system.
                                                     4. 70% of local programs originate from funding Not measured. If achieved, it would be
                                                     of local communities                             attributable to the VCSP.
                                                     5. 20% of the program recurrent costs are        Achieved except for in 2003.
                                                     financed by national resources.
                                                                                                      OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF
                                                                                                      INDICATOR: Improvement at the local
                                                                                                      level, partially due to CBSDP: (i) CRDs
                                                                                                      and CUs given greater responsibility for
                                                                                                      collection and use of own resources; (ii)
                                                                                                      increase of head tax from GNF2,000 to
                                                                                                      GNF 5,000 and (iii) Training had a
                                                                                                      modest effect on the level of competency of
                                                                                                      local officials.


Output Indicators:
                    Indicator/Matrix                                                       1
                                                                  Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1: Decentralizing public expenditure       1. 70% of budgetary resources allocated to       See indicator 1 above
management to ensure adequate and timely funding of priority sectors are transferred directly to the
public services at the front line                    service delivery front line and CRDs.
                                                     2. Guidelines for multiyear programming          Not achieved. However:
                                                     (MTEF) and bottom-up performance budgeting       § MTEFstudiesandmanualcompleted
                                                     established.                                     but implementation stalled due to objection
                                                                                                      by Ministry of Finance on pertinence and
                                                                                                      utility.
                                                                                                      § Studycompletedonimprovementof
                                                                                                      planning institutions at the regional and
                                                                                                      prefecture level with a focus on local level
                                                                                                      impact but little dissemination at local
                                                                                                      level. Ministerial decree issued.
                                                                                                      § Progressinlocalplanningachieved




                                                                     - 20 -

                                                                                                               through VCSP interventions
                                                          3. 20% of project operating costs covered by         Achieved except for in year 2003.
                                                          national resources.
                                                          4. Prefecture and CRD staff capable of preparing, No independent evaluation has been
                                                          implementing and monitoring their budgets, as        carried out beyond a base line study on
                                                          certified by independent evaluators.                 budget preparation and execution in 2001,
                                                                                                               the findings of which were only
                                                                                                               disseminated at the central level. Overall,
                                                                                                               there is evidence of a modest increase of
                                                                                                               autonomy in financial management at the
                                                                                                               local level.

                                                                                                               The following activities financed by the
                                                                                                               CBSDP likely contributed to this
                                                                                                               improvement:

                                                                                                               § Training:12seniorstaffofthe
                                                                                                               Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
                                                                                                               Plan trained in leadership and
                                                                                                               management; 320 staff at the
                                                                                                               sub-prefectures and CRD level trained in
                                                                                                               financial management and procurement,
                                                                                                               which was perceived as useful and
                                                                                                               pertinent; 25 technical staff of the Ministry
                                                                                                               of Plan trained in economic analysis and
                                                                                                               national accounting

                                                                                                               § Studycompletedonlocalprocurement;
                                                                                                               Gov't adjusted national procurement code
                                                                                                               and defined procedures accordingly

                                                                                                               § Completedcomputerizationofthe
                                                                                                               expenditure chain but only at the central
                                                                                                               level. This increased clarity of budget
                                                                                                               allocation and improved control against
                                                                                                               fraud. 21 technicians were trained in
                                                                                                               operating computerized expenditure chain.
Component 2: Decentralizing institutional                 1. Legislative and Executive orders related to       1: not achieved. Laws drafted on: Charter
accountability and capacity for service delivery to local decentralized process reviewed, updated and          for Participatory Territorial Governance
agencies and communities                                  passed by the National Assembly.                     and Code on Local Communities.
1.           Revise the roles, structures and staffing    2. Key staff in relevant departments and units       2: some training achieved
pattern of central departments, regional authorities,     trained in new roles.                                3: not achieved
prefecture administration and CRDs to support the         3. Decentralized service delivery and                4: some training achieved.
decentralization strategy.                                management systems set up at prefecture and          5: Study and operational manual
2.           Strengthen the ability of central            CRD levels.                                          completed on the launching of the
departments, sector agencies, regional authorities and    4. Key staff in relevant sectors and decentralized   Prefecture Development Councils;
prefecture administration to support and be accountable services and entities trained in leadership and        Councils established in five prefectures;
to local communities.                                     management for decentralization.                     circular letter published envisioning
3.           Strengthen the capacity of CRDs to provide 5. Prefecture Development Councils established         establishment of Councils in all
services to rural populations and to represent their      and fully operational, as certified by the base line prefectures.
interests at the Prefecture Development Council.          study.
                                                                                                               In addition:
                                                                                                               Administrative buildings of four
                                                                                                               Prefectures were renovated and equipment
                                                                                                               provided to central ministries, regions,
                                                                                                               prefectures and sub-prefectures in pilot
                                                                                                               areas, including 4x4 vehicles, pick-up
                                                                                                               trucks, motorcycles, solar panels and
                                                                                                               batteries, air-conditioners, electric
                                                                                                               type-writers, photo copiers, desk-top
                                                                                                               computers, printers, office furniture,
                                                                                                               two-way radios and antennas.
Component 3: Improving communications with                No indicator defined in PAD.                         Study on a strategy of communication and
Beneficiaries                                                                                                  public information carried out but not
                                                                                                               implemented; community facilitators
                                                                                                               trained but not deployed.
Component 4: Introducing a performance-based              1. Manual of procedures prepared for Sustainable 1.           Diagnostic study on performance
incentive system                                          Performance in Service Delivery Fund.                evaluation completed but not implemented.
                                                          2. 10% of funds provided by the counterpart          Fund implementation pending.
                                                          budget has been paid in.                             2.       Not achieved



                                                                          - 21 -

1Indicators were not monitored in PSRs. The indicators listed here are performance indicators from the PAD.




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                              Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                               US$ million   US$ million
Component 1: Decentralization of Public expenditures             3.11             0.75            24
Component 2: Decentralization of institutional                   8.12             0.93          11.5
accountability and capacity for service delivery to local
governments and communities; and Component 3:
Improving communication with beneficiaries
Component 4: Introducing a performance incentive system          3.55             0.16           4.5
Component 5: Project Coordination and Management                 3.07             1.14            37

Total Baseline Cost                                             17.85             2.98
 Physical Contingencies                                          1.78
 Price Contingencies                                             0.90
                         Total Project Costs                    20.53             2.98
                  Total Financing Required                      20.53             2.98


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB               NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                             0.00              0.30          0.00          0.00        0.30
                                    (0.00)             (0.15)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.15)
2. Goods                             2.60              1.40          0.10          0.00        4.10
                                    (2.60)             (0.80)      (0.06)          (0.00)     (3.46)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00          8.80          0.00        8.80
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)      (8.40)          (0.00)     (8.40)
4. Incentive Funds                   0.00              0.00          4.20          0.00        4.20
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)      (3.80)          (0.00)     (3.80)
5. Operating Costs                   0.00              0.00          3.60          0.00        3.60
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)      (3.19)          (0.00)     (3.19)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)             (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             2.60              1.70         16.70          0.00       21.00
                                    (2.60)             (0.95)      (15.45)         (0.00)    (19.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB               NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                             0.00              0.35         0.00           0.00       0.35
                                    (0.00)            (0.13)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.13)
2. Goods                             0.94              0.11         0.25           0.00       1.31



                                                    - 23 -

                                           (0.68)             (0.07)            (0.23)            (0.00)           (0.98)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.44             0.23              0.68
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.28)            (0.32)           (0.60)
    4. Incentive Funds                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.94               0.46              0.70             0.23              2.33
                                           (0.68)             (0.20)            (0.50)            (0.32)           (1.70)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
I. Decentralization of          3.47         0.19                     0.68         0.04                  19.6      21.1
Public expenditures
II. Decentralization of         8.34         1.21                     0.84         0.16                  10.1      13.2
institutional accountability
and capacity for service
delivery to local
governments and
communities
III. Improving
communication with
beneficiaries
IV. Introducing a               4.06         0.12                     0.14         0.02                   3.4      16.7
performance incentive
system
V. Project Coordination         3.13         0.48                     1.03         0.08                  32.9      16.7
and Management
Total baseline Cost
Total Project Cost             19.00         2.00                     2.69         0.29                  14.2      14.5


       N.B. The figures for Components II and III are combined.




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/13/1998                2    Development Consultant (1);
                                             Facilitation Specialist (1).
              11/1998                   2    Development Consultant (1);
                                             Facilitation Specialist (1).
              05/25/1999              11     TTL (1); Public Exp. Mgmt.
                                             Spec. (2); Governance
                                             Consultant (1); PSM Specialist
                                             (1); Proc. Specialist (1); FM
                                             Specialist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Rural Dev.
                                             Specialist (1); IT Consultant (1);
                                             Development Consultant (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/01/1999                7    TTL (1); Financial Mgmt.
                                             Cons. (1); Proj. Mgmt. Cons.
                                             (1); Pub. Admin. Cons. (1);
                                             FM Specialist (1); Resident
                                             Economist (1); Operations
                                             Officer (1).


 Supervision
              06/02/2000                2    TTL (1); Sr. PSM Specialist
                                             (1)
              10/13/2000                3    TTL (1); FM Specialist (1),            S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              02/26/2001                1    TTL (1);
              02/12/2001                8    TTL (1); Rural Sector                  S               S
                                             Development Specialist (1); Sr.
                                             Economist (1); Sr. PSM
                                             Specialist (1); Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Sr. Transport
                                             Specialist (1); FM Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              10/12/2001                8    TTL (1); Rural Sector Dev.
                                             Specialist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Sr. Economist (1);
                                             Sr. FM Specialist (1); Sr. PSM
                                             Specialist (1); Sr. Operations
                                             Officer (1); Sr. Transport
                                             Specialist (1).
              02/14/2002                1    PSM Specialist (1)                     U               U
              07/16/2002                1    TTL (1)                                U               U
              10/18/2002                2    TTL (1); Operations Officer (1).       U
              11/22/2002                6    TTL (1); Sr. PSM (1); Public



                                              - 26 -

               MTR)                        Sector Specialist (1); Operations
                                           Analyst (1); FM Specialist, (1)
                                           Procurement Specialist (1)
               06/21/2003              5   TTL (1); Team Members (3); FM        U    U
                                           Specialist (1)
               02/28/2004              1   TTL (1)                              U    U
               05/22/2004              1   Public Sector Specialist (1)
               07/31/2004              3   TTL (1), Public Sector Specialist
                                           (1), Procurement Specialist (1)

 ICR
               June 19, 2005          2     TTL (1); Lead PSM
                                            Specialist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            81.2                            189.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 37.4                            106.5
  Supervision                          148.5                            509.8
  ICR                                   22.1                             59.7
  Total                                289.2                            865.0




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 Project Appraisal Document
 Development Credit Agreement
 Final MTR Report
 Government MTR Input report
 Project Supervision Reports
 Mission aide memoires
 Internal memos
 Letters to/from Borrower
 Government ICR Report
 Study reports
 Audit reports




                                      - 30 -

- 31 -

