Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3311 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Capacity Building for Service Delivery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 14, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3311 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated November 
16, 1999, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to implement administrative and financial 
decentralization to improve the accountability and capacity of 
decentralized entities and agencies within its territory to deliver 
better services to its rural population (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its 
execution of the Program through a series of Credits over a period of 
twelve years, the proceeds of such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower 
for implementing the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
which Project forms the first phase of the Program, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the 
first phase of the Program upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read as 
follows:
"If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Association shall have the right to 
allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for 
such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as 
the Association shall in its sole discretion determine.";
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word "radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Advance Account” means a sub-account of the Special Account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means: (i) a Prefecture (as hereinafter 
defined), CRD (as hereinafter defined) or District (as hereinafter 
defined) to which or for whose benefit a Performance Grant is made, or 
proposed to be made (hereinafter Performance Grant Beneficiary); or (ii) 
an individual, team or rural community working in the Project Area (as 
hereinafter defined) to whom or for whose benefit a Performance Award is 
made or proposed to be made (hereinafter Performance Award Beneficiary);
(c)
“Communauté Rurale de Développement or “CRD” means the local 
government of a selected rural area in the territory of the Borrower, 
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Ordinance of October 
22, 1990; 
(d)
“CPD” or Conseil Préfectoral de Développement” means an 
organ of the Prefecture (as hereinafter defined) composed of elected 
representatives of local communities residing in a Prefecture and a 
representative of the Prefectoral administration, to be established by 
the Borrower with decision-making powers over Prefecture programs, 
budgets and staffing;
(e)
“District” means the basic administrative and territorial 
units that form a part of a CRD”;
(f)
“Eligible Categories” means the categories set forth in the 
table in Paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(g)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works, services and amounts paid or to be paid under Performance Grants, 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Franc Guinéen” means the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited 
into the Project Account (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 
3.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
“MATD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Territorial 
Administration and Decentralization;
(k)
“MECS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Employment and Civil 
Service;
(l)
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance;
(m)
“MPC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and 
Cooperation;
(n)
“Performance Award” means a reward for superior performance 
in service delivery that may be delivered by PMU (as hereinafter defined) 
to an individual, team, or rural community group working in the Project 
Area (as hereinafter defined), in accordance with criteria, procedures 
and terms and conditions set forth in the manual of procedures of the 
SPISDF;
(o)
“Performance Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the 
Borrower represented by PMU and a Performance Grant Beneficiary setting 
forth the terms and conditions under which proceeds of the Credit shall 
be made available to such Beneficiary for the purpose of financing 
Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery Sub-projects under Part D.2 
(a) of the Project;
(p)
“Performance Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be 
made by the Borrower to Performance Grant Beneficiaries (as hereinafter 
defined) for the purpose of financing Performance Improvements 
Sub-projects (as hereinafter defined) under Part D.2 (a) the Project;
(q)
“PIMC means the Project Inter-Ministerial Management 
Committee whose functions and attributions are described in Paragraph 6 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)
“PMU” or Project Administration Unit means the unit whose 
functions and attribu“ions are described in Paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(s)
"Prefecture” means a selected administrative district in the 
territory of the Borrower headed by a Prefect, and operating under the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 004 of January 5, 1989;
(t)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.02 of this Agreement;
(u)
“Project Administrator” means the manager of PMU (as 
hereinafter defined), to be selected by the Borrower in accordance with 
paragraph 7 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(v)
“Project Area” means the Prefectures of Coyah, Mamou, 
Faranah and Macenta and any other administrative district in the 
territory of the Borrower as may be added by the Borrower in consultation 
with the Association;
(w)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
Page  4
(x)
“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the manual 
containing, inter alia, guidelines, timetables, procedures and other 
arrangements for the purpose of implementing the Project, and such term 
includes any schedules and amendments to the POM; as the same may be 
amended from time to time, in consultation with, and with the consent of, 
the Association;
(y)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to two Letter 
Agreements, dated October 25, 1999 and November 5, 1999, respectively;
(z)
“Project Year” means the first period of twelve (12) months 
following the Effective Date of the Project (First Project Year) and each 
subsequent period of twelve months thereafter until the completion of the 
Project;
(aa)
“PSC” or Comité d’Orientation means the Project Steering 
Committee whose functions and attributions are described in paragraph 5 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(bb)
“Sous-Préfecture” means a defined administrative district in 
the territory of the Borrower, that forms part of a Prefecture and is 
headed by a Sous-Préfet.
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) and Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(dd)
“Sustainable Performance In Service Delivery Fund” or 
“SPISDF” means a fund, to be established by the Borrower in accordance 
with paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to finance Performance 
Grants and Performance Awards; and
(ee)
“Sustainable Performance In Service Delivery Subproject” 
means an activity or a set of activities designed to sustain quality 
performance in service delivery proposed by a Performance Grant 
Beneficiary within the scope defined in Part D of the Project and 
financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods 
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) 
by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a 
Performance Grant Beneficiary to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works 
or services required for Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery 
Sub-projects to be financed under Part D.2 (a) of the Project in respect 
of which withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank or 
any other bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including, in the case of a commercial 
bank, appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  5
(c)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
open and maintain in Francs Guinéens, for each 
Prefecture in the Project Area an 
Advance 
Account of the Special Account, in a commercial bank or any other bank 
acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate 
protection 
against set off, seizure or attachment, 
to be used by such Prefectures exclusively 
for the 
purposes of financing works, goods and services required under the 
Project; and
(ii)
withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each Advance Account an amount 
not exceeding 
$15,000, and thereafter replenish said Advance Account in accordance 
with paragraph 7 of Section B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15, commencing March 
15, 2010 and ending September 15, 2039. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on September 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) 
Page  6
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years  the level established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
and public sector management practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in Francs Guinéens in a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association (the Project Account), and thereafter 
maintain said Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to 
Page  7
the Association until the completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount 
equivalent to $300,000 for the First Project Year; and (ii) thereafter 
replenish the Project Account every six months following the end of the 
First Project Year, by depositing therein an amount equivalent to 
$275,000, to finance the Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under 
the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit; 
and
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively 
to finance expenditures under the Project other than those financed from 
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association no later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case no later than four 
months after the end of 
each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the 
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
Page  8
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, no 
later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, or such later 
date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period 
covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by 
said report and expenditures 
proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and 
for the 
period covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association no later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Page  9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has 
deposited therein the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) 
of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Operational Manual, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed the auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Association and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial 
management and accounting system, satisfactory to the Association; and
(e)
the Borrower has appointed the Project Administrator and the 
professional staff of PMU referred to in Paragraph 7 (b) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, all with experience and qualifications acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l’Economie
   et des Finances
BP 579
Conakry, Guinea
Telex:
22399 MIFIGE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, DC.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Mohamed Aly Thiam
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Brian T. Ngo
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
    100,000
50%
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
  2,400,000
100% of 
foreign
office furniture
expenditures and
90% of 
local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services,
  5,500,000
100%
including audits and
training
(4)
Incremental operating
  1,900,000
80%
costs
(5)
Performance Grants
  1,650,000
100% of 
amounts
Page  11
under Part D.2 (a)
disbursed
of the Project
(6)
Performance Awards
    550,000
90%
under Part D.2 (b)
of the Project
(7)
Refunding of the
    900,000
Amount 
due pursuant
Project Preparation
to 
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this 
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
    800,000
TOTAL
 13,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than the 
Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring 
including office consumables (including communication expenses), staff 
travel and associated subsistence allowances, salaries for incremental 
contractual and temporary staff, office rental, office supplies and 
maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles and equipment, but 
excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement;
(b)
in respect of expenditures under Categories (5) and (6), 
until the Borrower has: (i) established a performance appraisal and 
incentive systems satisfactory to the Association, including the 
establishment of the Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery Fund, 
with a legal, institutional and operating framework, including a manual 
of procedures, satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) deposited into 
the Project Account an amount equivalent to $50,000 to contribute to the 
said Fund; and
(c)
in respect of a Performance Grant under Part D.2 (a) unless 
the Performance Grant has been made in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Paragraph 8 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in more detail in the manual of 
procedures of the SPISDF.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made 
for: (a) civil works not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (b) for goods not 
exceeding $100,000; (c) for consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for individual consultants’ services 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
Page  12
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in US dollars a  special 
deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and 
accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account or an Advance Account was made for an 
expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly 
Page  13
upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such  evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraphs 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
7.
(a)
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and 
deposit into each Advance Account funds to assist the beneficiary of such 
account to pay for works, goods and services under the Project. Such 
withdrawals and deposits shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each 
beneficiary to pay for such goods, works and services in due course, 
provided that at no time shall the Borrower cause the amount to be held 
in any Advance Account to exceed the equivalent of  $15,000.
(b)
Payments out of Advance Accounts shall only be made for 
eligible expenditures in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
Any withdrawal from any Advance Account must be justified to 
the Borrower by the same documentation and other evidence regarding 
Eligible Expenditures.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
2,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
for withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or 
requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Page  14
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  15
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in 
establishing mechanisms for transferring resources and institutional 
accountability to decentralized entities and agencies within its 
territory, and for strengthening the ability of rural communities to 
manage their resources and take charge of their own needs, with the view 
to improving service delivery to such rural populations.
Subject to such modifications as the Borrower and the Association 
may agree upon from time to time to achieve the Project’s objectives, the 
Project consists of the following Parts.
Part A:
Decentralizing Public Expenditure Management
1.
Implementing fiscal decentralization and introducing an integrated 
performance-based budgeting approach by:
(a)
establishment of a decentralized budgeting system at the 
Prefecture and CRD levels;
(b)
adoption of new budget classification rules detailing 
budgetary resources accruing to prefectural and decentralized entities; 
and
(c)
strengthening the financial management and control units in 
selected ministries of the Borrower, the CRDs and the Prefectures; all 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training, 
carrying out of studies and workshops, and acquisition of equipment and 
materials.
Part B:
Decentralizing Institutional Accountability and Capacity for 
Service Delivery to Local 
Governments and Communities
1.
Carrying out of a revision of the institutional framework with the 
view to increasing administrative decentralization.
2.
Carrying out a review and strengthening of the functions and 
structures of relevant units in the Borrower’s ministries, Prefectures 
and CRDs.
3.
Establishment of delivery and management systems at the Prefecture 
and CRD levels; all through the provision of technical advisory services 
and training and the acquisition of equipment and materials.
4.
Carrying out of infrastructure rehabilitation works in Préfectures 
and Sous-Préfectures.
Part C:
Improving Communication with the Rural Population
1.
Strengthening of consultative mechanisms at the CRD level and at 
the service delivery point between providers and beneficiaries of 
services, through the provision of training and technical advisory 
services.
2.
Establishment of Prefecture Development Councils with 
decision-making powers over Prefecture programs, budgets and staffing, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training.
3.
Carrying out of a training program on participatory mechanisms to 
prefectural and local officials, service providers and beneficiary rural 
populations.
4.
Carrying out of a public information campaign to improve 
communication between service providers and beneficiary rural populations 
through the provision of technical advisory services and training.
Part D:
Introducing a Performance Incentive System
Page  16
1.
Development of a performance appraisal and incentive system through 
the carrying out of participatory research studies, testing and 
dissemination of proposed approaches, workshops and overseas study 
visits.
2.
Establishment of a Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery Fund 
(SPISDF) to finance: (a) the implementation of SPISD Subprojects; and (b) 
Performance Awards in the form of goods and training to deserving 
individuals, teams or rural communities with a record of superior 
performance in service delivery.
Part E:
Project Coordination and Management
Coordination, management and supervision of the Project through: 
(a) acquisition of equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies for PMU 
and provision of support for operating costs; and (b) the carrying out of 
evaluations to assess the impact of Project activities on their intended 
beneficiaries and the progress of institutional improvements.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, motorcycles, 
computer, communications or office equipment shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $100,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  17
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Vehicles, motorcycles and equipment estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Computer, communication and office equipment estimated to cost less 
than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $60,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and for the first five contracts for 
works, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for vehicles, motorcycles or 
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, and the following provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Page  18
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services for 
technical assistance, training and studies under Parts A, B, C, D, and E 
of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training in decentralization and management under 
Parts B and C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least Cost Selection
Services for project auditing under Part E of the Project and 
services of a standard nature estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Use of Nongovernmental Organizations
Services for studies under Parts A and D of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 
and 3.14 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured, 
with the approval of the Association, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
Page  19
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)), 3 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
Any amendment to a contract for the employment of a 
consulting firm that would increase the amount of the contract to 
$100,000 or more and any amendment to a contract for the employment of an 
individual consultant that would increase the amount of the contract to 
$50,000 or more shall be subject to the prior review of the Association.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the POM and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend or waive any provision of said POM if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect 
the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring 
and performance indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project; and
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments:
(i)
no later than December 1 of each year, commencing on 
December 1, 2000, or such 
later date as the 
Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, the 
draft budget for the next Project Year; and
(ii)
no later than February 15 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association may 
agree, commencing on 
February 15, 2001, until the completion of the Project, an 
annual report setting forth, inter alia: (A) a 
summary of the results of the 
monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph; and (B) progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project.
3.
(a)
By March 15 of each year, commencing March 15, 2001 or such 
later date as the Association may agree, until the completion of the 
Project, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out an annual 
review of the Project (hereinafter called the Annual Review); such Annual 
Page  20
Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of the Project 
and, inter alia, review the information furnished in accordance with 
paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, and work programs to be carried out 
under the Project during the following Project Year.
(b)
Following such Annual Review the Borrower shall carry out 
said work programs in accordance with modalities and procedures approved 
by the Association and in accordance with the POM, and shall not make any 
material change to the approved programs without the prior approval of 
the Association.
4.
(a)
No later than 24 months after the Effective Date or such 
other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree upon, the 
Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term review 
(hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). The Borrower shall take 
all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of 
relevant non-governmental organizations, and beneficiaries of the Project 
in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(b)
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a 
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the implementation of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act 
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed 
necessary by the Association to remedy any shortcoming noted in the 
implementation of the Project and the Program, as the case may be, or to 
implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
5.
The Borrower shall maintain at all times during the implementation 
of the Project a Project Steering Committee (PSC), named 
Comité 
d’Orientation, which shall be responsible for the overall coordination 
and oversight of the Project. The PSC shall have authority to: (i) 
approve the project annual work programs and budgets; (ii) review  the 
implementation progress towards achievement of project’s objectives; and 
(iii) issue general guidelines for project implementation and decide on 
major corrective actions.  PSC will meet at least twice  a year or  any 
time as necessary  upon the invitation of its Chairman. PSC shall be 
chaired by the Prime Minister and its members shall include the Minister 
of Planning and Cooperation, Vice-Chair; the Minister of Territorial 
Administration  and Decentralization; the Minister of Economy and 
Finance; the Minister of Employment and Civil Service; and the Ministers 
of Pre-university Education, Health, Agriculture  and Livestock, and 
Justice.
6.
The Borrower shall maintain at all times during the implementation 
of the Project an Inter-Ministerial Management Committee (PIMC), chaired 
by the Minister of Territorial Administration and Decentralization, which 
shall be responsible for the day to day coordination and of project 
implementation. PIMC shall meet at least twice a month to review the 
Project’s overall implementation progress and to take appropriate 
decisions to ensure coordination of the different components. PIMC’s 
membership shall include representatives from each of the four ministries 
of the Borrower responsible for the implementation of the Project: MPC, 
MEF, MECS, MATD.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain until the completion of the Project, a PMU within 
MATD, which shall serve as the secretariat of PIMC and shall be 
responsible for overall financial management and accounting for the 
Project and for providing technical and financial support to implementing 
agencies, in particular with respect to procurement, disbursement, 
Page  21
financial accounting, monitoring and evaluation. PMU shall be headed by 
an administrator with qualifications and experience acceptable to  the 
Association.
(b)
maintain within PMU the positions of Project Administrator, 
whose functions and responsibilities are described in the POM, 
administrative and financial specialist, monitoring and evaluation 
specialist, and accountant and ensure that they are filled at all times 
during the implementation of the Project, with persons with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, selected in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
maintain until the completion of the Project, a computerized 
accounting and financial management system acceptable to the Association, 
for the purpose of carrying out and monitoring the Project.
8.
Sustainable Performance in Service Delivery Fund
(a)
The Borrower shall adopt, no later than August 31, 2000 an 
adequate performance incentive system, satisfactory to the Association, 
including the legal, institutional and operational framework necessary 
for the establishment and operation of a SPISDF managed by PMU. This 
framework shall include the legal basis for the operation of the SPISDF 
and a manual of procedures detailing the types of awards and modalities 
of their distribution, the performance criteria and standards, evaluation 
guidelines and procedures applicable to the SPISDF’ s operations.
(b)
PMU shall be given the necessary legal authority to manage 
the SPISDF and distribute Performance Grants and Performance Awards.
(c)
Before distributing any Performance Grants or Awards, PMU 
shall measure performance, through a systematic evaluation process based 
partly on beneficiary satisfaction surveys, against performance 
benchmarks and, where feasible, agreed work plans. The criteria that 
would govern the award of Performance Grants and Awards would depend on 
the target recipients as well as the behaviors that the performance 
incentive system would be seeking to encourage in the Beneficiaries. PMU 
shall not use the proceeds of the Credit to distribute any cash awards to 
individuals.
(d)
Performance Grants shall be awarded to Prefectures, CRDs, 
and Districts with a demonstrated record of superior performance in 
service delivery on the basis of criteria that shall include: community 
motivation and participation in project identification and 
implementation; transparent project management and technical quality of 
project output.
(e)
A Performance Grant may not exceed the equivalent of  
$30,000 or any other amount as may be specified in the manual of 
procedures of the SPISDF, and shall only be disbursed subject to 
submission by the Beneficiary of a SPISD Subproject designed to further 
improve its effectiveness in service delivery and approval by PMU of such 
a Subproject, in accordance with the standards, criteria and procedures 
specified in the manual of procedures of the SPISDF.
(f)
In financing SPISD Subprojects, PMU shall enter into a 
Performance Grant Agreement with the Beneficiary, under terms and 
conditions which shall include the following:
(g)
the obligation to carry out the SPISD Subproject in 
accordance with the manual of procedures of the SPISDF, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, environmental and managerial standards and to maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
SPISD Subproject;
Page  22
(h)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to 
be financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, and (ii) such 
goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the SPISD Subproject;
(i)
the right of PMU to inspect by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, 
sites, plants and construction included in the SPISD Subproject, the 
operations thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(j)
the right of PMU to obtain all information as PMU or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, 
operation and financial conditions of the SPSD Subproject;
(k)
the right of PMU to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the SPISD Subproject 
upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations 
under the Performance Grant  Agreement; and
(l)
the rights and obligations of any agency which will execute 
the SPISD Subproject on behalf of the Beneficiary.
