Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 18478 AFR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCIJMENT
ONA
PROPOSED
GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.3761 MILLION (US$3.152 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
INDIAN OCEAN COMMISSION
(FOR GOVERNMENTS OF COMOROS, MADAGASCAR, MAURITIUS, SEYCHELLES)
FORA
WESTERN INDIAN OCEAN ISLANDS
OIL SPILL CONTINGENCY PLANNING PROJECT
October 20, 1998
Transport I
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 08/31/98)
SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.32649
Currency Unit = Comorian franc
US$1.00 = Comorian franc 445.9425
Comorian franc 1.00 = US$0.002
Currency Unit = Malagasy franc
US$1.00 = Malagasy franc 5,638.38
MGF 1.00 =US$0.000177
Currency Unit = Mauritian rupee (Mau Rs)
US$1.00 = Mau. Rs. 23.7
Mau. Rs. 1.00 = US$0.042
Currency Unit = Seychelles rupee
US$1.00 = Seychelles Rs. 5.127
Seychelles Rs. 1.00 = US$0.195
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)    =      3.28 feet
I hectare (ha)   =      2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)           0.625 miles
1 liter          0.220 imperial gallons
1 cubic meter    =      220 imperial gallons
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Michael Sarris
Sector Manager: Yusupha Crookes
Team Leader: Abdelmoula Ghzala



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD          Agence Fran,aise de Developpment
BTO          Back to Office
CAS          Country Assistance Strategies
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
CLC          International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage
CPF          Country Program Frameworks
EDF          European Development Fund
EU           European Union
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FUND         International Fund for Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Association
IMLI         International Maritime Law Institute
IMO          International Maritime Organization
IOC          Indian Ocean Commission
IPIECA       International Petroleum Industry EnvironmLental Conservation
Association
IW           International Waters
MOE          Ministry of Environment
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOP          Ministry of Planning
MOT          Ministry of Transport
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
NCP          National Contingency Plan
NEAP         National Environmental Action Program
OPRC         International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, ]Response and
Cooperation
OSR          Oil Spill Response
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCD          Project Concept Document
PIC          Project Implementation Coordinator
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMU          Project Management Unit
PPG          Project Preparation Grant
QCSB         Quality and Cost Based Selection Method
SADC         Southern African Development Community
SFF          Strategic Fuel Fund
SOLIMA       National Oil Company of Madagascar
SEPEC        State Oil Company of Seychelles
TA           Technical Assistance
UNEP         United Nations Environment Programme
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund






Western Indian Ocean Islamrlds
GEF-Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
CONTENTS
A.  Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
A. 1. Project development objective and key perforrnance indicators .....................................2
A.2.  Project global objectives and key performance indicators ..............................................2
B.  Strategic Context ..................................................................2
B.1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project ........2
B.2.  GEF  Operational Strategy/program   objective addressed by the project .........................3
B.3.  Main sector issues and government strategy ..................................................................3
B.4.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................7
C.  Project Description Summary ..................................................................7
C.1.  Project components ..................................................................7
C.2.  Key policy  and institutional reforms to be sought ..........................................................9
C.3.  Benefits and target population ..................................................................9
C'4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .10
D.  Project Rationale ................................................................                                                       11
D. 1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................. 11
D.2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ 13
D.3.  Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ............................................ 14
D.4.  Indications of commitment and ownership ................................................................  14
D.5.  Value added of Bank and Global support in this project ............................................... 14
E.  Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                               14
E. 1.  Economic ................................................................                                                      14
E.2.  Financial ................................................................                                                      15
E.3.  Technical ................................................................                                                      15
E.4.  Institutional ................................................................                                                  15
E.5.  Social ................................................................                                                         15
E.6. Environmental assessment .........................                                                                               16
E7. Participatory Approach .........................                                                                                  16
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................                                                                                       16
F. 1. Sustainability ........................                                                                                         16
F.2. Critical Risks ........................                                                                                          18
iii



F3. Possible Controversial Aspects .........................                                                                 18
G. Main Grant Conditions .1............................ 19
G1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................                                                                   19
G2. Other ............................                                                                                       19
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................                                                                       19
I.  Compliance with Bank Policies ............................                                                                    20
Annexes
Annex  1    Project Design Summary ............................                                                                    21
Table A   Project Design Summary                                  ............................ 21
Table B        Key Perfomance Indicators, Activities and Target Dates .                              ..................................... 23
Annex 2         Detailed Project Description ...................................................                                   24
Annex 3         Estimated Project Costs ...................................................                                        29
Table A   Components Project Cost Summary ................................                                                    29
Table B  Detailed Components Project Cost Summary.                                                                           30
Table C  Detailed Components Project Cost Summary .31
Table D   Project Components by Year - Totals including Contingencies .32
Table E Summary Project Cost by Country .33
Table F  Cost Table by Component and Country .34
Table G   Components by Financiers - Totals including Contingencies .35
Annex 4         Incremental Cost Analysis ...................................................                                      36
Annex 5         Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ...................................................                       47
Table A        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ...................................................     50
Table B        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ....................................... 51
Table C        Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...................................................                                52
Table D        GEF Disbursement of Grant Proceeds ...................................................                         53
Annex 6         Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...................................................                         54
Annex 7         Documents in Project File ...................................................                                      55
Annex 8         Statements of Loans and Credits ...................................................                                56
Annex 9         Risk Analysis and Impact ...................................................                                       60
Annex  10   Countries at a Glance ...................................................                                              66
iv



Western Indian Ocean Islandls
GEF-Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Project Appraisal Documnent
Africa Regional Office
AFC08
Version 20
Date: 10/20/98                                      Team Leader/Task Manager: Abdelmouta Ghzala
Country Manager/Director: Michael Sarris     Sector Manager/Director: Yusupha Crookes
Project ID: 3A-GE-36037  Sector: Environment        Program Objective Category: Environmentally
Susta'.nable Development
GEF Supplement ID:                                  Focal Area: International Waters
Lending Instrument: GEF Grant                       Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data     [  Loan       [ ] Credit  [] Guarantee  [X] Grant   [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m): 3.152
Amount (SDRm): 2.3761
Financing plan (US$'000):
Source                                                    Local               Foreign           Total
Governments                                               211.6                513.2           724.9
Other Contributors:
Oil Industry                                               26.2                279.4           305.6
South Africa                                                 1.5               164.9            166.4
Reunion                                                     0.7                167.3            168.0
IMO                                                         11.5                65.3            76.8
GEF                                                       408.9               2,650.7         3,151.8
Indian Ocean Commission                                    34.8                  8.2            43.0
Total                                                     695.2               3,941.3         4,636.5
Recipient: Indian Ocean Commission (for Governments of Comoros (GOC), Madagascar (GOMr), Mauritius (GOMs),
Seychelles (GOS)
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministries of environment in each country, executing agencies (to be defined) and the Indian
Ocean Commission Secretariat (IOCS)
Estimated GEF disbursements                1999       2000       2001       2002      2003
(Bank FY/US$'000):
Annual                                     131.7     564.2        699.6    971.5      784.8
Cumulative                                 131.7     695.9      1,395.5   2,367.0   3,151.8
For Guarantees: N/A                            [ ]   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: 1999-2003 (four years, five fiscal years).
Expected effectiveness date: March 1999.
Expected closing date: June 30, 2003.



A.   Project Development Objective
A. 1.  Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed project is to protect the environmental integrity of the coastal and
marine ecosystems of a large, biologically rich and relatively pristine part of the western Indian
Ocean. The project will achieve this by helping the small island states of Comoros, Mauritius,
Madagascar, and Seychelles ratify and comply with the International Convention on Oil
Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation (OPRC90), which requires states to develop
and maintain adequate capacity to respond to oil pollution emergencies.  Specific project
objectives are to: (a) establish appropriate legal and institutional frameworks to ensure
compliance with relevant international conventions; (b) develop national and regional
contingency planning processes; (c) set up appropriate national and regional oil spill response
capacity; (d) establish sustainable financial and institutional agreements and synergy through
regional cooperation arrangements (including South Africa and Reunion). These objectives will
be achieved by building awareness and preparedness at national levels, and establishing and
organizing oil spill response capacity at national and regional levels. The project builds upon
and complements the institutional framework provided by the Nairobi Convention, by
recognizing the Indian Ocean Commission as the executing and implementing agency of the
project.
A.2.  Project global objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The project aims at limiting the contamination of international waters and conserving globally
significant marine and coastal biodiversity by: (a) addressing the threat of oil spills in the West
Indian Ocean region; (b) involving the private sector in utilizing technological advances to
resolve transboundary concerns associated with such a threat; and (c) developing a financing
mechanism to sustain the national and regional capacity that the project will create to deal with
oil spills.
B.    Strategic Context
B.1.  Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see
Annex 1)
CAS document number/date of latest CAS discussion:
Mauritius: Report #16426-MAS, April 22,1997
Madagascar: Report # 16249-MAG, February 18, 1997
Comoros and Seychelles: N/A
Country Assistance Strategies and Country Programn Frameworks (CPF) for these countries focus
only very generally on environmental protection, and do not specifically identify either oil
pollution or protection of international waters as areas of priority intervention. The project is
therefore designed to raise awareness of the threat of oil pollution to the environment and
globally important biodiversity, as well as the economic potential of environmentally-related
2



activities, such as ecotourism and fishing.
Comoros and Seychelles. Both countries have Country Program Frameworks instead of CASs.
For Comoros the project would support CPF objective to protect the environment. In the
Seychelles, the project would support CPF objective to promote environmnental sustainability of
economic activities and environmental protection.
Madagascar. Two of the strategic objectives in the Madagascar CAS would be supported by the
proposed project: (a) strengthening the public sector's ability to deliver quality services and
create an enabling business environment; and (b) natural resources management to reduce
degradation and develop ecotourism potential.
Mauritius. The proposed operation would support the CAS objective to improve environmental
management.
B. 2. GEF Operational Strategy/program objective addresseid by the project
The proposed project falls under the GEF's Contaminant-Based Operational Program (number
10). It is fully consistent with the long-term objective of this program, which is to develop and
implement international waters (IW) projects that demonstrate ways to overcome barriers to the
use of best practices for limiting release of contaminants critical for the IW focus area, and to
involve the private sector in utilizing technological advances for resolving these transboundary
priority concerns. In particular, the project would support the short-term objectives to (a)
leverage significant private sector support to demonstrate the use of m.odern technology in
preventing shipping accidents, oil spills, and releases of contaminants, and to demonstrate
innovative measures to address issues relevant to international mLaritime conventions
(International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage (CLC92), OPRC90,
FUND92); and (b) develop a regional IW project aimed at synthesizing and disseminating
lessons learned, sharing the learning experience with groups of countries cooperating on IW
projects, and addressing the technical and institutional needs of countries cooperating on IW
projects.  The project is also consistent with the Operational Program objectives of: (a)
addressing an imminent threat; (b) responding to a strong cdesire by neighboring countries to
collaborate; and (c) developing an innovative sustainable financing mechanism.
B. 3.  Main sector issues and government strategy
Regional issues. The World Bank study, "Africa: A Framt-work for Integrated Coastal Zone
Management (1996),"' identifies marine oil pollution from tanker traffic as one of the most
serious coastal management issues for East Africa, with the Mv[ozambique Channel singled out as
an area under particular threat. The vulnerability of the Indian Ocean region to oil spill accidents
has been noted in the work of other agencies, such as the International Maritime Organization's
(IMO) 1994 Report on a Regional Oil Spill Contingency Program for the Island States of the
Indian Ocean Region, funded by the Canadian International ]Development Agency (CIDA), and
Environment Department, Land, Water and Natural Habitats Division, Washington, D.C.
3



the United Nations Conference on the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing
States. The IMO report further identifies the need to protect native species and ecosystems, such
as the World Heritage Site of Aldabra Atoll, the sea turtle breeding grounds of ile Tromelin, and
extensive coral formations, coastal wetlands and sand beaches.
A detailed risk and impact study was carried out as part of preparations for the proposed project
to evaluate: (a) the likelihood that oil spills will occur, from small operational spills at oil
handling facilities (Tier 1) to larger and more serious spills occurring in waters away from oil
handling ports and harbors, for which a major response would be required (Tier 3); and (b) the
damage that would result in the event of an oil spill. The study shows clearly that in all countries
there are real risks of small operational spills occurring, and that there have been many such
incidents in recent years. It also shows that Tier 2 events   during which up to 500 tons oil are
spilled at or near harbors by vessels going aground or being involved in collisions - would have
a serious impact locally and may well negatively affect regional marine ecosystems and marine
biodiversity as well as national coastal resources. The study has examined several accident
scenarios in which an outflow of 50,000 tons of oil could occur at different locations within the
region (Tier 3 spills). It finds that accidents involving very large vessels carrying crude oil
through the region would likely overwhelm the organization and response arrangements of the
countries concerned, and could have devastating impacts on the environment of the region
damaging coral reefs, seagrass beds, mangroves, beaches and shorelines, and devastating
populations of dugons, sea turtles, numerous seabirds and many other rare and important species
of wildlife. A large oil spill could also severely harm the economies of the small island
developing states by damaging fishing grounds, amenity beaches, diving and deep-sea fishing
areas; disrupting shipping; and shutting down activities that depend on seawater intakes to
aquaria or industrial plants. A somewhat lower level of tanker traffic passes by Mauritius, about
20 million tons per year; however the potential for an accident still exists. Annex 9 contains the
executive summary of the study.
The region as a whole lacks legislation, equipment and a plan to confront an oil spill emergency,
although Seychelles, Mauritius and Reunion have ratified some international conventions and
have developed national oil spill contingency plans, which are still untested. Reunion has
developed a national oil spill response plan, and has asked to participate in the proposed GEF
operation, with French funding, to share its expertise with the other islands and to take part in the
regional contingency plan. Of the mainland countries bordering the Channel, only Tanzania is
developing a national oil spill response plan, but currently has no facilities nor equipment. A
proposed International Development Association (IDA) Credit to Mozambique would address oil
pollution indirectly through ratification of the International Convention for the Prevention of
Pollution from ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 thereto (MARPOL 73/78) and
establishment of port reception facilities for ballast water. Currently, regional oil spill response
capacity resides only in South Africa and the International Response Center. However, this
cannot substitute for national and regional response capacity. There is potential for effective
local action to respond to Tier 1 and 2 spills, and vital time would be lost without this capacity.
In addition, Reunion and the government and other organizations of South Africa, (such as the
Strategic Fuel Fund (SFF) and the Maritime and Safety Authority of South Africa) are
supporting this project by providing valuable expertise in training, joint exercises, sensitivity
4



mapping, preparing national response plans, and creating a mechanism to coordinate regional
action to respond to Tier 3 spills.
Regional initiatives.  Some international organizations are supporting projects which are
complementary to the proposed project. The European Union is carrying out a project focused
on helping countries comply with the requirements for maritime safety. Under this project, the
IOC, with the support of the European Development Fund (EDF), has launched a Regional
Environment Program covering all of the island states, which addresses marine pollution as part
of its coastal zone component. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is
preparing a Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis focusing mainly on sustainable fisheries
management for the west Indian Ocean region. The UTNEP initiative is directly complementary
to the proposed Indian Ocean Oil Spill Contingency Project. The two projects are being tightly
coordinated and the results of their respective studies, suCh1 as the risk and impact analysis
conducted for the proposed project, are being shared. The UNEP project is expected to be
submitted to the GEF Council in October 1998.
National issues. Economic and sector work (ESW) for individual countries points to the need to
protect marine resources, and individual countries have cleveloped individual strategies to
achieve this. Each of the governments of the Indian Ocean islands share common aspirations to
develop the ecotourism potential of their respective countries. In each country, the fishing
industry contributes to GDP. Economic development potential relies largely on protection of
their shared resource, the Indian Ocean. Carrying approximately 30 percent of the world's total
annual petroleum output, the Indian Ocean is one of the busiest shipping lanes in the world. An
oil spill would ruin beaches and marine and coastal ecosystenis. This would severely damage or
destroy two key economic sectors of the island nations: tourism and fishing.
Comoros. A wide variety of ESW has been carried out by the Bank and other donors to identify
the issues relevant to the proposed project. The Economic Strategy Note ('1993), and subsequent
Policy Framework Paper (1994) identified the need to protect fragile ecosystems and to
implement mechanisms for, managing environmental problems.   The  1994 National
Environmental Action Program (NEAP) also identified conservation of marine and coastal
ecosystems and development of national environmental institutional and policy frameworks as
key issues to be addressed. The 1996 Tourism, Environment and Infrastructure Sector Study
emphasized the importance of environmental protection, particularly of marine and coastal
ecosystems, to economic development based on tourism. The government's strategy is to
implement the recommendations of the NEAP, as stated above, and to implement related
measures (environmental legislation, updated building codes, institutional strengthening, public
awareness and involvement of communities) through a multi-donor infrastructure and
environment program, of which the proposed Bank Infrastructure, Water and Environment
Project is an integral part. The government has not yet ratified any of the international waters
conventions, nor is there any oil spill response capacity at either the state level or at the level of
the state-owned oil company. However, the State Oil company (under privatization) is
committed to acquiring Tier I equipment and developing its own oil spill response capacity
during the project implementation.
5



Madagascar. Madagascar developed a National Conservation for Development Strategy in
1984. This was followed by the 1988 National Environmental Action Plan, completed with
support from the World Bank, United States Agency for International Development, Swiss
Cooperation, UNESCO, UNDP and the World Wide Fund for Nature. Both of these documents
recognize the importance of preserving Madagascar's rich biodiversity and unique ecosystems as
a basis for the development of tourism. The NEAP emphasizes the need to protect coastal zones;
however it focuses on addressing land-based sources of pollution and environmental degradation.
The government has undertaken several environmental projects with IDA support, and is
currently preparing a transport project which addresses oil pollution in ports. However, the
government has not yet signed any of the international maritime conventions, nor has it
developed a national oil spill response plan. Although the country annually imports and refines
about 500,000 tons of crude oil, and moves fuel and oil products around the coast in small
tankers, there is no oil spill response capacity of any sort, not even at the National Oil Company
(SOLIMA) crude import facility at Toamasina. However, the State Oil company (under
privatization) is committed to acquire Tier I equipment and develop its own oil spill response
capacity during the project implementation.
Mauritius. The 1990 NEAP identified the lack of an institutional and regulatory framework for
environmental management as a major sectoral bottleneck. The NEAP further emphasized the
importance of preserving Mauritius' unique biodiversity and coastal ecosystems, essential for the
development of the tourist industry.  The government has been active in promoting
environmental programs, including development of a national oil spill contingency plan under
the authority of the Ministry of Environment, a Tier 1 plan and some equipment under the
Marine Authority, and Tier 1 plans and equipment for oil terminals. These response plans are
under revision and not all have been tested. There is a need for additional preparedness training.
The government has ratified several international maritime conventions (CLC69, FUND71,
MARPOL 73/78 and Annexes I and II) and has expressed interest in ratifying OPRC90. The
local oil industries, which have already developed some oil spill response capacity and are
equipped with Tier I equipment, are committed to providing more adequate oil spill response
equipment and generally support government initiatives in the field of oil spill response.
Seychelles. The 1990-2000 Environmental Management Plan of Seychelles recognizes the need
to protect biodiversity from threats posed by concentrations of populations and economic
activities, beach erosion, and inadequate management of sewage. The plan emphasizes the
importance of regional environmental cooperation, particularly to guard against over fishing,
and the need to develop baseline studies and scientific information on marine and coastal
ecosystems. Finally, the plan proposes developing national preparedness and capacity to
address oil spills as part of the development of Port Victoria. Seychelles is an active participant
in international environmental conventions and programs and is home to two World Heritage
sites (Aldabra Atoll and Valee de Mai Nature Reserve). The government has ratified the major
international maritime conventions (CLC69, FUND71 and OPRC90) and has developed a
national oil spill contingency plan within the National Environmental Management Plan. The oil
spill contingency plan has recently been transferred from the Port Authority to the Coast Guard.
The country has recently acquired some oil spill response equipment, and the State Oil Company
6



(SEPEC) has purchased a small amount of equipment to cover its terminal operations and is
committed to develop its own oil spill response capacity.
B. 4.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The proposed project addresses all of the oil-spill related issues specified above. Each country
will develop national institutional, physical and strategic capacity to respond to oil spills to
protect national coastal and surrounding marine environments in the interest of conserving
globally important biodiversity, protecting fisheries and promoting ecotourism. The project will
protect the shared Indian Ocean resources by establishing regional agreements and strategies to
respond to oil spill accidents that transcend national borders. The project will facilitate regional
cooperation and coordination of the island nations, including (a) signing of international
conventions and treaties (CLC92, FUND92, OPRC90,), (b) definition of a regional oil spill
response plan, (c) coordination of national legislation, (d) ensuring adequate oil spill response
capacity, and (e) establishing a mechanism for regional coordination. In order to ensure adequate
oil spill response capacity, the project places primary emphasis on establishing financial
sustainability for the oil spill response system at both national and regional levels, and on
building cooperation between concerned national governments and the local and international oil
shipping industries. This cooperation would mobilize technologies and procedures to address oil
spill emergencies that have been developed by the oil industry.
C.    Project Description Summary
C. 1.  Project components (see Annex 1)
Component A: Legislation and regulation for conventions. Component A would assist the
four island nations develop their national legislative framework to take account of the provisions
of the CLC92, FUND92 and OPRC90 conventions. It is also recommended that the countries
consider accession to the International Convention relating to [ntervention on the High Seas in
Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties (INTERVENTION 69). This would empower governments to
take appropriate action in the event a ship is at risk of spilling oil in its territory. The project will
assist countries through: (a) a regional workshop on the ratification and implementation of the
conventions to highlight the experience of countries that have already ratified and are
implementing them (Mauritius to take a lead role); (b) expert consultancy to Comoros and
Madagascar to assist in the preparation and ratification of relevant international conventions, and
to develop or upgrade the national legal framework to take account of relevant conventions'
provisions; and (c) expert consultancy to assist all four countries in drafting the technical
legislation for the implementation of the conventions' provisions. This component will also
provide for a long-term training course for legal officers at the IMO International Maritime Law
Institute (IMLI).
Component B: National oil spill contingency plans. Training workshops and external experts
would assist in developing national capacity for environment data collection and information
management systems, identification of areas of environmental and socioeconomic importance,
and establishment of national priority areas. This information would be used to create national
7



environmental sensitivity maps. National contingency plans would be developed by Comoros
and Madagascar, and reviewed and tested for Seychelles and Mauritius.
Component C: Oil spill response equipment. This component would consist of: (a)
assessment of baseline situation to determine equipment needs; (b) specification of equipment
needed; (c) procurement of equipment, and (d) training in equipment operation and maintenance.
Component D: National capacity building. This component would involve: (a) training on
environmental sensitivity mapping, project management, convention implementation, and others;
(b) training of trainers; (c) provision of expert advice and guidance in specific matters relating to
national contingency plans, oil spill equipment, fate and effects of oil in the marine environment,
risk assessment and development of appropriate response strategies; (d) support to allow
government officials to attend the main international seminars on oil pollution, technology and
related matters; and (e) expertise on developing, reviewing and testing an oil spill response
manual.
Component E: Regional institutional strengthening. This component would assist in the
development of a regional plan for response to a major oil spill. Specifically, this component
would assist all beneficiary countries develop capacity for project management; development of
regional agreements for cooperation; awareness raising, training and joint exercises; regional
contingency planning, and establishment of a regional oil spill response coordination center.
Seychelles has proposed hosting and permanently financing the regional coordination center, and
the other countries have agreed. The plan would be developed in conjunction with the relevant
government departments and industry in South Africa, and be used as an opportunity to establish
strong links with this country, which has resources that can be used to assist the member
countries increase their own oil spill response capacity.
Project components summary
8



Components                         Category   Cost including   Percent of    GEF
contingencies    total     financing
(US$'000)                 (US$'000)
A. Legislation and regulation for  Policy/        527.3         11%         450.6
conventions                    institution
building
B. National oil spill contingency plans  Institution  1,117.6   24%          444.7
(NCP)                          building
C. Oil spill response equipment   Physical/      1,265.4        27%          814.4
institution
building
D. National capacity building     Institution     604.6         13%          512.6
building
E. Regional institutional strengthening  Policy/  1,121.6       24%         929.6
institution
_ building
Total         4,636.5       100%        3,151.8
C. 2.  Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought
No major policy and institutional reforms are considered under this project. The project does,
however, focus on building awareness and facilitating ratification and implementation of
international maritime conventions (CLC92, FUND92, OPRC90), and on generating cooperation
among national agencies and between the Indian Ocean island countries to address oil spill
emergencies. In addition, the project will support the development of sustainable institutional
and financial arrangements among the countries and between the countries and tae national and
international oil industries.
C. 3.  Benefits and target population
The project will significantly reduce the risk of devastating impacts on the biologically rich
ecosystems of the west Indian Ocean Region due to an accidental oil spill. The Indian Ocean is
home to the World Heritage Site of Aldabra Atoll (Seychelles), unique indigenous marine life
such as the coelacanth and local species of aquatic birds, sea turtles and coral reefs. Protection of
marine and coastal environments and conservation of biodiversity will help ensure that
significant ecosystems and unique wildlife are not destroyed due to an oil spill accident.
Protection of marine and coastal ecosystems will also promote growth in tourism and protect
fisheries upon which many people depend. This will benefit 1he region as a whole, as well as
individual nations and their residents. Countries will also benefit from the partnership that will
be fostered among countries. The West Indian Ocean Countries and the local and international
oil industry will benefit from the relationship and the transfer of technology that the project will
foster, and the enhanced capacity to respond effectively to oil spills. This partnership will result
in the mobilization of oil industry equipment and expertise in the event of an emergency.
9



C 4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements
Project Implementation Period. The project will take place over four years, fiscal 1999-2003,
completed by December 31, 2002 and closed by June 30, 2003. The project will be carried out in
two phases: (a) building awareness and preparedness at the national level; and (b) establishing
sustainable, operational oil spill response capabilities at the national and regional levels.
Executing agencies. A project management unit (PMU) of the Indian Ocean Commission
Secretariat (IOCS), ministries of the environment of Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius,
Seychelles, and national executing agencies (for the equipment component) will execute the
project.
Project coordination and oversight. The project management unit established at the regional
level under the Indian Ocean Commission Secretariat and headed by a regional coordinator will
be responsible for overall project coordination and implementation.
A project implementation coordinator within the ministry of environment for each country will
coordinate the national components of the project. The project management unit and the project
implementation coordinator will benefit from technical assistance for project management and
monitoring and technical capacity in oil spill response management. A steering committee,
chaired by the IOC and comprising senior officials responsible for environment for each
participating country, will ensure national and regional interagency coordination and cooperation
among all donors.
The ministries of environment in each of the countries will be responsible for drafting enabling
legislation at the national level, and, with the Indian Ocean Commission Secretariat, for ensuring
ratification of international conventions and protocols on the regional level. They will also have
overall responsibility for drafting national and regional oil spill response plans. Exezuting
agencies at the national level will contribute to these plans and will be responsible for carrying
them out. The Indian Ocean Commission Secretariat, with expert assistance, will provide project
coordination and oversight, particularly of regional components.
Procurement. Consultants and equipment to be financed under the GEF grant will be procured
according to World Bank procurement guidelines.
Monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation will be carried out at two levels: (a)
tracking project progress; and (b) monitoring national capability. These tasks will be carried out
while the project is under implementation by all involved parties, through regular joint
supervision and review.
Supervision. The Bank will devote some 60 staff weeks to supervise progress under the GEF
grant through fiscal 2003. During the first three years, supervision will focus on progress in
achieving specific objectives, such as convention ratification, procurement, national and regional
contingency plan development and implementation. During supervision and project reviews,
10



particular attention will be paid to implementation of the mechanisms and the training program
designed to promote institutional and financial sustainability.
Monitoring. Overall project monitoring will be based on indicators prepared during appraisal
and on the project implementation plan finalized by the IOC and agreed during negotiations. The
steering committee, chaired by Indian Ocean Commission and assisted by consultants as
necessary, will be responsible for the monitoring. The Indian Ocean Commission will monitor
and coordinate progress under each project component through the project management unit,
under the guidance of the steering committee. It will prepare progress reports every six months,
commencing in January 1999, and submit them to the Bank within one imonth thereafter. No
later than three months after completion of the project, thie Indian Ocean Commission will
prepare and provide to the Bank a report on the execution of the project, its costs and current and
future benefits to be derived from it.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The Indian Ocean Commission
will establish (prior to June 30, 1999) a project accounting system tracking the cost of the various
goods and services provided under the project, according to the "Financial, Accounting,
Reporting, and Auditing Handbook," dated January 1995 and published by the World Bank. It
will keep separate project accounts together with their statutory financial statements. Terms of
reference for annual audits of project accounts and semiannual audits of the Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) have been agreed upon at negotiations. Auditing will be carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the reports of such audits will be submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the end of the IOC's fiscal year for the project accounts
and no later than three months after the end of each calendar semester for the SOEs.
Mid-term review. A mid-term review will be carried out no later than December 2000 by the
Bank, together with Indian Ocean Commission and the other involved parties. In addition to
covering all areas included in annual reviews, the mid-term review will assess the
implementation status of the national and regional components, institutional and financial
arrangements, cost-recovery system and the legal framework for regional cooperation. During
the mid-term review, the institutional and financial sustainability action plans of each beneficiary
country will be reviewed and reassessed. Prior to the mid-term review, the Indian Ocean
Commission will contract a consultant (under GEF finance) to review and assess the progress of
project implementation and prepare the necessary documentation for the review. In particular,
the review will consider and discuss the results of the review of the project implementation plan
(PIP) and recommendations for updating/amending the P'IP for the remainder of project
implementation. It is expected that the mid-term review will result in the determination of a
general framework for the sustainable institutional and fi:nancial arrangements between the
concerned countries and between the governments and local and international oil industries.
D.   Project Rationale
D. 1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
One alternative is to continue to rely on oil spill response capacity in South Africa and the
11



international response centers. While South Africa and the international response centers will
continue to provide technical (and perhaps material) assistance, development of regional capacity
is more appropriate to respond to a local oil spill emergency. The configuration of the islands
and their history of cooperation through the Indian Ocean Commission argue for a project built
on regional cooperation rather than reliance on outside and remote oil spill response capacity.
For Tier 1 spills, only a limited response is likely, which could be provided by national capacity.
For more serious spills, the combined capacity of the neighboring islands, in addition to the time
saved by proximity, argue for developing regional capacity. Another alternative would be to
develop oil spill response capacity in one or more countries in the region. While such an option
might protect national waters and coastal regions, an oil spill typically has significant spillover
effects and often requires international assistance. Therefore, the proposed project would
develop both national and regional response capacity to address both national and transboundary
environmental threats, and would bring the beneficiary countries the benefits of international
emergency assistance by making them signatories to international maritime conventions.
12



D.2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank anador other development agencies
(compkted, ongoing andplanned)
Sector issue                         Project                  Latest supervision ratings
(Form 590)
Inplementation   Development
_   progress (IP)   objective (DO)
Bank-financed
General
Protection of Intemational  Mediterranean Pollution Control:
Waters                     Algeria (4871)                        S               S
Morocco (5347)                      HS              HS
Tunisia (5588)                      HS              HS
Protection of Intemational  Ship-Ge.nerated Waste Management
Waters                  Project (Eastem Caribbean) (6957)        S               S
Protection of Intemational  Wider Caribbean Initiative for Ship-
Waters                  Generated Waste (6956)                   U               S
Regional
Environmental standards   Mauritius Environmental Monitoring     S               S
and monitoring          and Development Project (1914)
Seychelles Transport and                S               S
Environment Project (2383)
Marine/coastal pollution    Mauritius Environmental Sewerage
and Sanitation Project (not yet
effective)
Port pollution          Madagascar Transport Sector Project
(under preparation)
Environmental           Comoros Infrastructure, Water and
legislation/codes!      Environment Project (under
infrastructure          preparation)
Other agencies
Environmental           Comoros Multi-donor Infrastructure
legislation/codes/      and Environment Program (planned)
infrastructure          (UNICEFIEDFIFAC/AFD/ Islamic
Development Bank)
Indian Ocean marine     IOC Regional Environmental
resources preservation and  Program
regional environmental
legislation
Indian Ocean regional   IOC Regional Action Project for
pollution               Maritime Security
Marine resources        IOC Regional Tuna Program, IOC
management              Regional Tourism Program
UNEP Transboundary Diagnostic
Analysis of the West Indian Ocean
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
13



D. 3.  Lessons learned and reflected in proposedproject design
Lessons from the Indian Ocean Commission/European Union Regional Environmental Program
include: (a) the need for mechanisms to facilitate coordination between the Indian Ocean states,
particularly in the area of environmental legislation; (b) the need for a flexible and responsive
project management structure; and (c) the need to involve private sector actors and other local
sources of expertise.
Lessons from World Bank projects in the area include: (a) the need to ensure a minimum level of
participation from all countries, especially in the areas of financial sustainability, training and
infrastructure maintenance; (b) the benefits of mobilizing and involving private sector expertise;
and (c) the need for mechanisms to facilitate regional interaction.
The proposed project therefore: (a) builds on the regional coordination and cooperation built by
the Indian Ocean Commission, while ensuring responsiveness through an autonomous project
coordinator within the Commission; (b) sets minimum participation benchmarks for each of the
countries defined in national and regional contingency plans; (c) incorporates expertise from the
private sector and other countries in the region; and (d) ensures regional coordination and
interaction though the regional contingency plans, training and joint exercises.
D. 4. Indications of commitment and ownership
The countries are participating in the Indian Ocean Commission Regional Environment Program
and have been fully involved in preparatory project studies. Seychelles and Mauritius have
developed national oil spill contingency plans.
D.5.  Value added of Bank and Global support in this project
The GEF financing and operational framework will act as a catalyst and a guide for individual
country involvement and regional cooperation to respond to the risk of oil spill pollution. The
World Bank brings considerable experience in working with beneficiary countries on global
environmental issues and the ability to mobilize the private sector, in particular the international
and local oil industries.
E.   Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex
7)
E. 1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$   million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Incremental Cost [ ] Other (Specify)
The people of the developing island countries are stewards of rich and globally important marine
and coastal ecosystems and biodiversity. Yet the resources are shared, so individual countries
are reluctant to take action to protect the resources without the involvement of other beneficiary
14



countries are among the poorest in the world, and lack resources to invest in protecting global
commons. The incremental cost analysis is detailed in Annex 4.
E.2. Financial
During project implementation, cost recovery and sustainable financing arrangements of national
and regional oil spill response centers will be established, as well as financial responsibility of oil
industry towards oil spill risks and issues. A study, identifying sustainable institutional and
financial arrangements has been completed. This study has formed the basis of actions plans for
institutional and financial sustainability detailed for each country, and agreed during
negotiations. Commitment to implement the action plans is a condition of Board presentation.
E. 3.  Technical
During project implementation, the most appropriate technical arrangements will be developed
and used during training, joint exercises, marine sensitivity mapping, national and regional
contingency plans preparation, etc.. Equipment for oil spill response centers will be procured in
accordance with the most appropriate standards and specifications. Local oil industries in each
of the beneficiary countries will acquire Tier I equipment and develop its own oil spill response
capacity.
E. 4.  Institutional
A project management unit (PMU) of the Indian Ocean Commission Secretariat (IOCS),
ministries of the environment of Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius, Seychelles, and national
executing agencies (for the equipment component) will execute the project.
The overall coordination of the project as well as the implernentation of the regional component
will be carried out by a project management unit (PMU), established at the regional level under
the IOC Secretariat and headed by a regional coordinator (already appointed). This unit, under
the guidance of a steering committee (proposed to be headed by the Secretary General of the
IOC, and comprised of senior officials responsible for environment of each of the beneficiary
countries) will be also responsible and accountable for the overall monitoring of the project. The
national components of the project will be implemented through a project implementation
coordinator (PIC) from the ministry of environment of each country. The PIC will coordinate the
different activities to be carried out by the relevant executing agencies in each country.
Sustainable institutional and financial arrangements within amd among countries, and between
countries and the oil industry will be set up during project implementation.
E. 5.  Social
The social consequences of a major oil spill would be high, due to unemployment that would
result from disruption to the tourism and fishing industries, and damage to a major food source
(Seychelles and Comoros).
15



E. 6.   Environmental assessment
Environmental Category    []A   []B  [X] C
The project comprises mainly technical assistance for the development of regional capacity to
respond to an oil spill emergency, and is therefore rated Category C. It does not generate any
negative environmental impacts of its own. Indeed its purpose is to provide protection against
environmental damage arising from an oil spill accident.
E7.   Participatory Approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced;
ifparticipatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]
a. Primary stakeholders and other affected groups:
Local oil industries and the International Petroleum Industry Envirorimental Conservation
Association (IPIECA) have been involved in project design, because the industry recognizes the
importance of assisting with the development of oil spill response capacity in countries and
regions. Local governments and academic institutions have been involved in the identification of
environmental issues.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other contributors - the Governments of South Africa and Reunion, South Africa (government
and oil industry) and IMO - are also participating in and contributing (in-kind) to the project.
F.    Sustainability and Risks
F. ]. Sustainability
Project sustainability will rest on the overall commitment of the Indian Ocean Commission
countries and the oil industry to protect the environment against oil spill pollution. The key
objective of the project is to build sustainable institutional and financial arrangements within and
among countries and between countries and the local and international oil industries. To ensure
that this essential outcome is met, an institutional and financial sustainability study has been
carried out. Written agreements from the governments confirming their commitment to
implement the agreed institutional and financial sustainability action plans is a condition of
Board presentation.
In accordance with its proposal, accepted by the other countries, Seychelles will host and
pernanently finance the regional oil spill response coordination center. During the course of
project implementation, the center will acquire the skills needed to assume the coordination
function. In particular, the center will: (a) prepare a plan to make operational the regional oil
spill contingency plan completed during the second year of the project; (b) test its regional
coordinator role through a regional test during the third year of the project; (c) establish
16



communication links with participating countries; and (d) monitor ship traffic through the region
where practicable and to disseminate findings regarding illegal discharges of oil and passage of
tankers and ships carrying hazardous cargoes through sensitive areas, such as the World Heritage
site of Aldabra. After completion of the project, the center will: (a) be the custodian of the
regional oil spill response plan; (b) design and implement regular regional exercises; (c) assist
countries with the further development of their national contingency plans when requested; (d)
organize and hold workshops to assist with the development of national and regional oil spill
response capacity; and (e) take an auditor's role in monitoring regular national and regional
exercises and maintenance procedures, and publish an annual report on its findings.
Following project completion, the participating island states will incur expenses for annual
training and exercises, maintenance, and renewal of equiprment as required. Madagascar has
proposed financing these expenses through a port levy, and Comoros will establish a special fund
financed by a levy on oil imports. Seychelles and Mauritius will meet these expenses through
their general budgets. The institutional and financial sustainability action plans for each country,
agreed with the Bank during negotiations, detail the indicative amount each country will be
expected to contribute each year, the source of funds, and arrangements for administering the
funds. The action plans will be reviewed and reassessed during the mid-term review and are
expected to be fully implemented prior to the completion date (December 31, 2002).
17



F.2.  Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                      Risk rating    Risk minimization measure
Annex 1, 'from Outputs to Objective"
Lack of/uneven compliance with regional plan by  S     The synergies among countries
one or more countries                                  created by the project and the
assistance brought by South Africa
and Reunion will help the countries
to comply.
Lack of/uneven capacity in one or more countries  S    Project will strengthen capacity and
encourage sharing of expertise
among countries
Lack of enforcement capacity                   M       Synergies among countries created
by the project and the assistance
brought by South Africa
Lack of oil industry compliance                M       The synergies among national
industries created by the project and
the assistance brought by South
Africa oil industry and IPIECA
Annex 1, 'from Components to Outputs"
Risk of non-acceptance of intemational         N       IOC (regional cooperation agency)
conventions by one or more countries                   and govemnment commitments
Risk of non-enforcement of national legislation or  M  Synergies among countries created
noncompliance with national response plan              by the project and the assistance
brought by South Africa
Lack of/uneven equipment operation and         S       Training to defined standard
maintenance capacity
Uneven financial capacity                      S       Planned sustainable institutional and
financial arrangements will address
this risk
Unclear national/regional roles and            N       Specific national and regional
responsibilities                                       contingency plans
Overall Risk Rating                               M
Risk rating: H (high risk), S (substantial risk), M (moderate risk), N (negligible or low risk)
F3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
18



G. Main Grant Conditions
GI. Effectiveness Conditions
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, adopted by
the Recipient.
G2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Prior to Negotiations:
* PIP prepared.
During Negotiations:
* Agreement with IOC and governments on the institutional and financial sustainability action
plans.
* Finalization of the PIP.
* Agreement on a date and format for a mid-term review.
Prior to Board Presentation:
*  Steering committee established.
*  Written commitment of South Africa, Reunion, IPIECA and IMO expressing their support
for the project, and their willingness to assist with its implementation.
* Written commitment of Governments to initiate the process necessary to ratify the relevant
international conventions (CLC92, FUND92, OPRC90).
*  Written commitments from the governments to provide the necessary resources required for
the execution of the project, and to implement the institu[tional and financial sustainability
action plans. The written commitment will be according to the format provided by the World
Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
The two preparatory studies (risk and impact assessment and institutional and financial
sustainability study) have been financed under the PDF Block B. They will be completed prior
to Board presentation, and their recommendations will be considered for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The draft project implementation plan was reviewed during appraisal and found to be
realistic and of satisfactory quality. The PIP was finalized during negotiations.
19



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[XI This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Abdelmoula!}hzala
Secte c
County Director: Michael   s
20



Annex 1
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                                      Key Performance Indicators              Monitoring and Supervision                   Critical Assumptions and Risks
Global Objective: Limit contamination of international waters         Response time/limit of damage in case of oil spill   Intemational Response Centers  Commitment by governments to strengthen environmental
Water quality                                                                   institutions and protect marine and coastal resources and
globally important biodivesrsity.
Comoros CPF Objective: Environmental protection --develop strategy for  Sustainable national and regional oil spill response   Ministry of Environment (MOE)  Adoption of legal and legislative framework for ratification
environmentally sustainable tourism                                   capacity in place.                                                                of relevant international conventions. Willingness to operate
as part of a regional initiative.
Seychelles CPF Objective: Promote environmental sustainability of economic   Sustainable national and regional oil spill response   Ministry of Environment  Adoption of legal and legislative framework for ratification
activities and environmental protection - (a) ensure that infrastructure  capacity in place.                                                            of relevant international conventions. Willingness to operate
development supporting tourism is environmentally benign; (b) promote                                                                                   as part of a regional initiative.
preservation of enviromnentally sensitive areas
Madagascar CAS Objective: Promote environmental protection, improve    Sustainable national and regional oil spill response   Ministry of Environment   Adoption of legal and legislative framework for ratification
infrastructure to facilitate tourism development                       capacity in place.                                                               of relevant intemational conventions. Willingness to operate
as part of a regional initiative.
Mauritius CAS Objective: Improve environmental management -improve     Sustainable national and regional oil spill response   Ministry of Environment   Adoption of legal and legislative framework for ratification
environmental strategic planning                                      capacity in place.                                                                of relevant international conventions. Willingness to operate
l~~eclNvelopnsentObjectivea..   .  .   t                                     I_________________  ~~~~~~~~)e'velopment Objectias a..sof a.Aior,al ritiaL)        .
PN  t eYels .-mZs t Qbis.           .: ~    ~    ~ ~~~~.:     .    . . .... ....
GEF Operational Program Objectives:                                   Legislation/conventions in place.              IMO/ministries of Transport        Assumes private sector has an interest in project objectives
(a) Develop and implement intemationalwaters projects that limit release of  System of regional cooperation in place.  (MOTs)                           and will cooperatively share technology and expertise.
contaminants threatening international waters focal area; and (b) involve  All petroleum shipping companies involved in  Port authorities
private seoctor in using technological advances to resolve transboundary issues  regional contingency activities.
concerning 1W focal area                                              Private sector operators involved in sevice
_ _                                                I ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~     ~      ~     ~     ~~provision.  ___ ____
Project Objective: Protect the environmental integrity of coastal and marine  Clear and sustainable oil spill contingency plan in   MOEs/IOC            Assumes that regional oil spill response capacity is adequate
systems in the Indian Ocean region                                    place in each country and in region as a whole.                                   and operates as expected.
Oil spill response equipment operation and
maintenance capacity in place.                 National gendarmerie/port
Rapid response time /limit of damage in case of oil  authorities/coast guards
spill.                                         Port/marine authorities
21



Table A Project Design Summary (cont.)
PsojettM ' -QS : - - D: ,,.g i*tpi5t                                                                                                                            ( O IE atU-A020200-000;::-:-:                       : QJec ,,,-,,:,g:  - ,tI,::Fv:777
Increased awareness and preparedness at national levels to respond to oil  10-15 awareness/training workshops held.  IOCS                             Assumes continuity of trained staff.
spills.                                                              Oil industry shippers aware of oil spill       MOTs
contingency arrangements.                     National gendarmerie/port
authorities/coast guards
Sustainable functioning of oil spill response institutions at national and  Staff trained and in place.             Ministries of Planning (MOPs)    Risk of uneven compliance by one or more countries
regional levels.                                                      Seven regional workshops/exercises held.      MOTs/MOEs                         Risk of uneven capabilities in one or more countries
Financial resources available (national and    Ministries of Finance (MOFs)     Unclear regional roles and responsibilities
regional levels).
An agreed and operating financial sustainability
mechanism established.
Legislative/regulatory framework at national and regional levels to facilitate    Legislation in place.             IMO/MOEs/ IOCS                    Risk of uneven compliance or enforcement capacity in one or
regional response.                                                    System for negotiating new legislation in place.                                more countries
Local and intenational oil industries - financial and technical support on a  Annual amount of financing or weeks of TA  IPIECA/IOCS                  Risk of lack of compliance by oil companies
pernanent basis                                                      provided.
,   4C4smPoo**t.                      Sw '. ,l-.,:- ,,,,,,;:  :::f: I:EiStt~                                                                          (C000IftU0;g;f--;0-::7::::4000-l ................ : ,, ,,,.S, ,,, t ' 'g'; ; ;E :EANAg:: L OESLttl-5.  . . ....
A.  Legislation and regulation for conventions                        GEF                                            MOEs                             Risk of nonacceptance of international conventions by one or
(a)  Training abroad                                                 IM()                                           MOTs                              more countries
(b)  Regional workshop                                                                                                                                Risk of nonenforcement of national legislation
(c)  Legal expertise for ratification
(d)  National legal framework upgrading
B.  National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)                        GEF                                            MOEs                             Needs clear delineation of industry, national and regional
(a)  Oil spill response basic training                               Oil industry                                   MOTs                              roles and responsibilities
(b)  NCP expertise and training                                      South Africa                                   Local oil industries              Risk of noncompliance by industry/individual countries
(c)  Environmental sensitivity index                                 Reunion
(d)  NCP review
(e)  NCP testing/updating
(f)  NCP coordination
C.  Oil spill response equipmnent                                     GEF                                           MOEs                              Lack of/uneven operation and maintenance capacity
(a)  Expertise for equipment specification                            Governments                                   MOTs                              Uneven financial capacity
(b)  Procurement of equipment                                        Reunion                                        Local oil industries
(c)  Equipment operator training                                      Oil industry
(d)  National exercises
(e)  Maintenance training
(f)  Equipment storage
D.  National capacity building                                        South Africa (government and oil industry)    MOEs                              Lack oFuneven institutional capacity
(a)  Workshops                                                       GEF                                            MOTs
(b)  Training of trainers                                            Govemments                                     National gendannerie/port
(c)  Exteral expertise                                               Reunion                                        authorities/coast guards
(d)  Intemational seminara                                           Oil industry
(e)  Expertise for oil spill response manual
E.  Regional institutional strengthening                              South Africa                                  MOEs                              Needs clear delineation of national/regional roles and
(a)  Conventions workshops                                           GEF                                            MOTs                             responsibilities
(b)  Assistance for project coordination                              Governments                                   IOCS
(c)  Training and seminars                                           R6union                                         South Africa
(d)  Regional exercises                                               Oil industq                                    R6union
(e)  Regional contingency plan and agreements                         IOC
(f)  Regional coordination center
(g)  Expertise and studies
22



Table B Key Performance Indicators, Activities and Target Dates
Performance lndicatorsJActivities                                       l'argetDates
CLC92 FUND92 and OPRC90 conventions ratified and implemented.           December 31, 2000
CLC92: Comoros, Madagascar; Mauritius, Seychelles
FUND92: Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius, Seychelles
OPRC90: Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius
Five students completed training course at IMO's International Law Institute in  Jlne 30, 2000
Malta.
One workshop held with at least four specialists from each country participating.  December 31, 1999
National oil spill contingency plan put into place. Plans to test the plan every two    DLecember 31, 2002
years established and a source of financing identified.
Thirty people completed the oil spill response basic training.          December 31, 2001
Two exercises conducted by each country.                                 December 31, 2002
Each country has at least a first edition of environmental sensitivity maps, and the    December 31, 2002 (Seven workshops
capabilities to update them as necessary.                               completed, over three years)
All specified oil handling facilities equipped with fully operational Tier 1  December 31, 2002
equipment A storage, maintenance and exercise schedule is operating according to
plan.
Five people trained in equipment specification.                         December 31, 2000
A minimum of 20 people trained in basic operation and maintenance of equipment.   December 31, 2002
Two exercises held in each country, during which equipment is deployed and  December 31, 2002
moved.
National capacity strengthened.                                          December 31, 2002
Twelve workshops (3 per country) completed.                             December 31, 2002
Twenty people trained to teach standard IMO level 3 courses.            December 31, 2002
Experts from the region attended four key international seminars on the topic.  One per year during the project life
Oil spill response manuals developed for each country.                  December 31, 2001
Regional contingency plans in place. Plans to test the plan every two years  December 31, 2001
established and a source of financing identified.
Two workshops held, focusing on regional cooperation and support.       December 31, 2001
Two seminars on regional issues held.                                   One per year, 2001-2002
Two exercises of the regional plan completed.                           Docember 31, 2002
Regional coordination center established and operational.               December 31, 2001
Communication equipment purchased.                                      December 31, 2002
23



Annex 2
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Detailed Project Description
Component A: Legislation and regulation for conventions - US$527.3 thousand
The relevant international conventions to the project are: (a) the International Convention on Oil
Pollution Preparedness and Response and Co-operation, 1990 (OPRC90); and (b) the 1992
Protocols to the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage (CLC92)
and the International Convention on the establishment of the International Fund for
Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, (FUND92). It is also recommended that the countries
consider accession to the 1969 Intervention in cases of Oil Pollution on the High Seas
Convention. Of the four beneficiary countries in the project, only Seychelles has acceded the
OPRC90 convention. Comoros and Madagascar have still to ratify/accede to all three relevant
conventions.
Component A would assist the four countries upgrade their national legislative framework to
take account of the provisions of above three conventions. The assistance will be provided
through: (a) a regional workshop on the ratification and implementation of relevant international
conventions (CLC92, FUND92 and OPRC90) to highlight the experience of countries that have
already ratified and are implementing these conventions; (b) expert consultancy to Comoros and
Madagascar to assist in the preparation and ratification of relevant international conventions, and
to develop or upgrade the national legal framework to take account of relevant conventions'
provisions; and (c) expert consultancy to assist all four countries in drafting the technical
legislation for the implementation of the conventions' provisions. This component will also
provide for a long-term training course for legal officers at the IMO International Maritime Law
Institute (IMLI).
Component B: National oil spill contingency plans - US$1,117.6 thousand
This component would be organized in two phases. During the first phase, training workshops
and external experts would assist in developing national capacity for environment data collection
and management systems, identification of areas of environmental and socioeconomic
importance, and establishment of national priority areas. This information would be used to
create national environmental sensitivity maps. This component would also include expertise to
assist with creating sustainable institutional arrangements to collect and manage environmental
information, and upgrade and update sensitivity maps as needed. This would allow countries,
(with the assistance of short-term external consultants), to prepare and update the national
contingency plans and the related detailed operational manuals as needed. During the second
24



phase, national contingency plans would be tested and exercises carried out. Lessons learned
will be used to further improve the national contingency plans.
Component C: Oil spill response equipment - US$1,265.4 thousand
This component would consist of the following three main activities:
1. Evaluation of the local situation. This would involve: (a) assessment of local oil handling
facilities, and of the potential impacts of accidents on the surrounding environment, human
health and economic activities; (b) estimation of the types of operational incidents that could
occur and the quantities and types of oil that could be released in the event of an accident; (c)
appraisal of local climatic and sea conditions that could affect the fate of oil on water; (d)
with the terminal operator and harbor and other relevant authorities, creation of appropriate
response strategy in the event of an accident, that meets the needs of the technical and
operational capabilities of the terminal personnel; and (e) broad identification of the
equipment (for example, booms, weirs, discs, vacuum skiimmers) required to carry out this
strategy.
2. Specification of equipment needs. The list would specify equipment needs in generic terms
(including information on lengths, capacity and number of units should be specified) and to
be suitable for competitive bidding;
3. Training in equipment operation and maintenance. This activity would involve: (a)
preparation of a schedule of skills needed to perform the maintenance specified for that type
of equipment; and (b) development of a training prograrn that provides the level of
competence required to carry out the designated maintenance program.
Component D: National capacity building - US$604.6 thousand
This component would involve: (a) designing and conducting workshops involving experts on
subjects such as environmental sensitivity mapping, project management, convention
implementation, and others; (b) training of trainers; (c) provision of expert advise and guidance
in the specific matters relating to national contingency plans, oil spill equipment, fate and effects
of oil in the marine environment, risk assessment and development of appropriate response
strategies; (d) support to allow senior government officials lto attend the main international
seminars on oil pollution, technology and related matters; and (e) expertise on developing,
reviewing and testing an oil spill response manual.
Component E: Regional institutional strengthening -US$1,121.6 thousand
There is no oil spill response plan at present for the region, although there is a protocol' under the
UNEP Regional Seas Programme (The Nairobi Convention) that calls for one to be provided.
Protocol concerning Co-operation in Combating Marine Pollution in Cases of Emergency in the Eastern African
Region.
25



This however does not give any practical response capability, options or facilities. This
component would develop a regional plan to organize a response to a major spill. Specifically,
the plan would:
1.    Arrange for the importation, handling and deployment of supplementary equipment, and
the mobilization of expertise and trained personnel to respond to a major spill in the
region;
2.    Be based on individual national oil spill contingency plans and the outcome of the risk
assessment and the individual country environmental sensitivity maps; and
3.    Specify arrangements for initial spill reporting and communication within the region and
mobilization of immediate mutual aid and support, the allocation of roles and
responsibilities, training of personnel on a regional basis, exchange of information and
opportunities for joint training and exercises of national response team personnel,
facilitation of inter-island movement of people and equipment, maintenance of lists of
resources available to the members and means of accessing the resources.
This component will comprise support and technical assistance to all beneficiary countries for
project management; development of regional agreements for cooperation; awareness raising,
training and joint exercises; regional contingency planning, and establishment of a regional oil
spill response coordinating center. The plan would be developed in conjunction with the relevant
government departments and industry in South Africa, and be used as an opportunity to establish
strong links with this country, which has resources that can be used to assist the member
countries increase their own oil spill response capacity.
Project implementation arrangements
The overall coordination of the project as well as the implementation of the regional component
will be carried out by a project management unit (PMU), established at the regional level under
the IOC Secretariat and headed by a regional coordinator (already appointed). This unit, under
the guidance of a steering committee (proposed to be headed by the Secretary General of the
IOC, and comprised of senior officials responsible for environment of each of the beneficiary
countries) will be also responsible and accountable for the overall monitoring of the project. The
national components of the project will be implemented through a project implementation
coordinator (PIC) from the ministry of environrnent of each country. The PIC will coordinate the
different activities to be carried out by the relevant executing agencies in each country. The
PMU will benefit from technical assistance support for project management, to be contracted
through the IOC Secretariat. This technical assistance will also support the PICs, as required.
Technical expertise will also be used, when needed, for the PMU and PICs, in improving
technical capacity in oil spill response management and project monitoring. The steering
committee will ensure national and regional interagency coordination, and coordination between
all donors. Consultants and equipment to be financed under the GEF grant will be procured
according to World Bank procurement guidelines. Monitoring and evaluation will be carried out
at two levels: (a) to determine the progress of the project; and (b) to monitor the efficiency of
26



national capability. Monitoring and evaluation will be carried over the duration of the project by
all involved parties, through joint regular supervision and review. The project would be
implemented over a period of four calendar years and five fiscal years, completed by December
31, 2002, and closed by June 30, 2003.
Procurement
All procurement for the national components as well as for the regional component will be
carried out by the IOC through the PMU. Goods wholly or partly financed by GEF/Bank would
be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in Januaiy and August 1996 and September
1997. Consultancy services wholly or partly financed by GEF/Bank would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997. The PMU
responsible for procurement will be strengthened to ensure that staff have adequate skills and
competence to implement the project. During negotiations assurances will be obtained from IOC
that the procurement arrangements will be followed during project implementation.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangemenl:s
Under the project, IOC will implement (before June 30,1999) a project accounting system
tracking the cost of the various goods and services provided under the project, according to the
"Financial, Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook," dated January 1995 and published
by the World Bank. It will keep separate project accounts together with their statutory financial
statements. Terms of reference for annual audits of project accounts and semi-annual audits of
the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) have been agreed upon at negotiations. Auditing will be
carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the reports of such audits will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the IOC's fiscal year for the
project accounts and no later than three months after the encl of each calendar semester for the
SOEs.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Supervision. The Bank will devote some 60 staff weeks for supervision of grant progress
through fiscal 2003. During the first three years, supervision will focus on progress towards
achieving specific objectives such as ratification of conventions, procurement of services, set up
and implementation of the national and regional contingency plans. Particular attention would
be given during supervision and project reviews to impleimentation of the institutional and
financial sustainability set up and the training program.
Monitoring. Overall project monitoring will be based on indicators confirmed at appraisal
(Annex 1) and the project implementation plan to be finalized by the IOC and agreed during
negotiations. Monitoring will be carried out by the steering committee, chaired by IOC, and
assisted by consultants as necessary. Progress under each project component will be monitored
and coordinated by IOC through the PMU under the guidance of the: steering committee.
27



Progress reports will be prepared by IOC every six months, commencing in January 1999, and
submitted to the Bank within one month thereafter. No later than three months after the closing
date of the project, the IOC will prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the execution of the
project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it.
Mid-term review. A mid-term review will be carried out no later than December 2000 by the
Bank, together with IOC and the other involved parties. In addition to covering all areas
included in annual reviews, the mid-term review will assess the implementation status of the
national and regional components, institutional and financial arrangements, the cost-recovery
system and the legal framework for regional cooperation. During the mid-term review, the
institutional and financial sustainability action plans of each beneficiary country will be reviewed
and reassessed. Prior to the mid-term review, IOC will contract a consultant (under GEF
finance) to review and assess the progress of project implementation and prepare the necessary
documentation for the review. In particular, the review will consider and discuss the results of
the examination of the project implementation plan (PIP) and recommendations for
updating/amending the PIP for the remainder of project implementation. It is expected that the
mid-term review will result in determination of a general framework for the sustainable
institutional and financial arrangements between the concerned countries and between the
governments and the local and international oil industries.
28



Annex 3
Annex 3
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Plarnnng Project
Table A
Components Project Cost Summary
(US$ '000)
Project Components                                                  %       % Total
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   lotal  Exchange   Costs
A. Legislation and regulation for conventions  40.5   436.3   476.8     92.0      12.0
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)  208.6   802.2  1,010.8   79.0      25.0
C. Oil spill response equipment              11.6  1,084.7  1,096.3     99.0      27.0
D. National capacity building                74.9   450.2   525.1       86.0      13.0
E. Regional institutional strengthening     248.5   702.7   951.2       74.0      23.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                        584.1  3,476.0  4,060.1     86.0     100.0
Physical Contingencies                     40.8   288.9   329.7       88.0       8.0
Price Contingencies                        70.3   176.3   246.6       71.0       6.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                         695.2  3,941.3  4,636.5     85.0     114.0
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
29



Annex 3
West Indian Ocean blands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Table B
Components Project Cost Summary
(USS '000)
Proiect Components                                                          %      % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Legislation and regulation for conventions
1. Traintng abroad                                  0.0   206.8   206.8    100.0       5.0
2. Regional workshop                                4.9    27.9    32.8      85.0      1.0
3. Legal expertise for ratification                13.1    74.5    87.6      85.0      2.0
4. National Legal framework upgrading              22.4   127.2   149.6      85.0      4.0
Subtotal Legislation and regulation for conventions  40.5   436.3   476.8      92.0    12.0
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)
1. Oil spfi response basic traiing                16.0   179.0   195.0      92.0      5.0
2. NCP expertise and training                       2.8    53.4    56.3      95.0      1.0
3. Environmental sensitivity mapping               13.6   129.8   143.4      90.0      4.0
4. NCP review                                       1.4    26.7    28.1      95.0      1.0
5. NCP testing/updating                            40.4   379.6   420.0      90.0    10.0
6. NCP coordination                               134.4    33.6   168.0      20.0      4.0
Subtotal National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)  208.6   802.2  1,010.8    79.0    25.0
C. Oil spill response equipment
1. Expertise for equipment specification            1.7    30.4    32.0      95.0      1.0
2. Procurement of equipment                         0.0   900.0   900.0    100.0    22.0
3. Equipment operator training                      2.0    28.7    30.6      94.0      1.0
4. National exerckes                                6.0    34.0    40.0      85.0      1.0
5. Maintenance trairdng                             2.0    28.7    30.6      94.0      1.0
6. Equipment storage                                0.0    63.0    63.0    100.0       2.0
Subtotal Oil spill response equipment                11.6  1,084.7  1,096.3    99.0    27.0
D. National capacity building
1. Workshops                                       18.5    89.4   107.8      83.0      3.0
2. Trairning of trainers                            9.1    65.5    74.6      88.0      2.0
3. External expertise                              26.3   148.8   175.0      85.0      4.0
4. International seminars                          11.4    76.8    88.2      87.0      2.0
5. Expertise for oil spill response manual          9.6    69.9    79.5      88.0      2.0
Subtotal National capacity building                  74.9   450.2   525.1      86.0    13.0
E. Regional institutional strengthening
1. Convention workshops                             5.8    42.4    48.2      88.0      1.0
2. Assistance for project coordination             92.6   362.4   455.0      80.0    11.0
3. Trairdrkg and seminars                           8.7    63.6    72.3      88.0      2.0
4. Regional exercices                               5.8    42.4    48.2      88.0      1.0
5. Regional contingency plan and agreements         3.4    19.1    22.5      85.0      1.0
6. Regional coordination center                    47.5    42.5    90.0      47.0      2.0
7. Expertise and studies                           84.8   130.3   215.0      61.0      5.0
Subtotal Regional institutional strengthening       248.5   702.7   951.2      74.0    23.0
0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                584.1  3,476.0  4,060.1    86.0   100.0
Physical Contingencies                             40.8   288.9   329.7      88.0      8.0
Price Contingencies                                70.3   176.3   246.6      71.0      6.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                 695.2  3,941.3  4,636.5    85.0   114.0
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
30



Anirex 3
West Indian iOcean Islands
Oil Spill Contingerncy Planning Project
Table C
Components Project Cost Summary
(Rupees '000)               (USS '000)]
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign    Total     Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Legislation and regubtion for conventions
1. Training abroad                                 0.0  5,065.4   5,065.4       0.0   206.8   206.8    100.0       5.0
2. Regional workshop                             120.5    683.1      803.6      4.9    27.9    32.8      85.0      1.0
3. Legal expertise for ratification              322.0   1,824.8    2,146.8    13.1    74.5    87.6      85.0      2.0
4. National Legal framework upgrading            549.8  3,115.4   3,665.2      22.4   127.2   149.6      85.0      4.0
Subtotal Legislation and regulation for conventions  992.3  10,6SS.6  11,611.0   40.5   436.3   476.1      92.0    12.0
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)
1. Oil spill response basic training             391.4  4,386.1    4,777.5     16.0   179.0   195.0      92.0      5.0
2. NCPexpertise and training                      68.9   1,309.2   1,378.1      2.8    53A      56.3     95.0      1.0
3. Ernironmental sensitivity mapping             334.1   3,179.2   3,513.3     13.6   129.8   143.4      90.0      4.0
4. NCP review                                     34.5    654.6      689.1      1.4    26.7    28.1      95.0      1.0
5. NCP testing/updating                          989.6   9,300.4   10,290.0    40.4   379.6   420.0      90.0    10.0
6. NCP coordination                             3,292.8    823.2   4,116.0    134.4    33.6   168.0      20.0      4.0
Subtotal National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)    5,1112  19,652.8  24,764.0    20S.6   102.2  1,010.1  79.0    25.0
C. Oil spill response equipment
1. Expertise for equipment specification          40.6    744.4      785.0      1.7    30.4    32.0      95.0      1.0
2. Procurement of equipment                        0.0  22,050.0  22,050.0      0.0   900.0   900.0    100.0    22.0
3. Equipment operator trainring                   48.2    702.1      750.3      2.0    28.7    30.6      94.0      1.0
4. National exercices                            147.0    833.0      980.0      6.0    34.0    40.0      85.0      1.0
5. Maintenance training                           48.2    702.1      750.3      2.0    28.7    30.6      94.0      1.0
6. Equipment storage                               0.0  1,543.5    1,543.5      0.0    63.0    63.0    100.0       2.0
Subtotal Oil spill response equipment              2S4.0  26,575.1   26,859.1    11.6  1,0S4.7  1,096.3    99.0    27.0
D. National capacity building
1. Workshops                                     452.0   2,189.1    2,641.1    18.5    89.4   107.8      83.0      3.0
2. Trairning of trainers                         222.7   1,605.0   1,827.7      9.1    65.5    74.6      88.0      2.0
3. External expertise                            643.1   3,644.4    4,287.5    26.3   148.8   175.0      85.0      4.0
4. International seminars                        280.0   1,880.9   2,160.9     11.4    76.8    88.2      87.0      2.0
5.Expertiseforoilspillrespornsemanual            236.3   1,711.4    1,947.8     9.6    69.9    79.5      88.0      2.0
Subtotal National capacity building              1,8342  11,030.1   12,865.0     74.9   450.2   525.1      16.0    13.0
E. Regional institutional strengthening
1. Conventionworkshops                           141.9   1,039.0   1,180.9      5.8    42.4    48.2      88.0      1.0
2.Assistanceforprojectcoordination              2,269.3  8,878.2   11,147.5    92.6   362A    455.0      80.0    11.0
3. Training and seminars                         212.8   1,558.6    1,771.4     8.7    63.6    72.3      88.0      2.0
4. Regional exercices                            142.2   1,038.7   1,180.9      5.8    42.4    48.2      88.0      1.0
5. Regional contingency plan and agreements       82.7    468.6      5513       3.4    19.1    22.5      85.0      1.0
6. Regional coordination center                 1,163.8   1,041.3    2,205.0   47.5    42.5    90.0      47.0      2.0
7. Expertise and studies                        2,076.4   3,191.1    5,267.5   84.8   130.3   215.0      61.0      5.0
Subtotal Regional institutional strengthening    6,089.0  17,215.4  23,304.4    248.5   702.7   951.2      74.0    23.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                             14,310.S  15,162.7  99,473.4   514.1  3,476.0  4,060.1    16.0   100.0
Physical Contingencies                          1,000.1   7,078.5   8,078.7    40.8   288.9   329.7      88.0      8.0
Price Contingencies                             2,765.1  10,231.3  12,996.4    70.3   176.3   246.6      71.0      6.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                             18,076.0 102,472.5  120,54S5    695.2  3,941.3  4,636.5    15.0   114.0
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
31



Annex 3
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Table D
Project Components by Year -- Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1999      20 O    01     2002      2oo3      Total
A. Legislation and regulation for conventions
1. Training abroad                                              -    234.3                 -          -    234.3
2. Regional workshop                                         18.1     18.6        -        -          -      36.7
3. Legal expertise for ratification                             -     93.6        -        -           -     93.6
4. National Legal framework upgrading                        80.3     82.5        -                         162.7
Subtotal Legislation and regulation for conventions            98.4    428.9                                  527.3
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)                     -        -                       -
l.Oilspillresponsebasictraining                                 -    151.6    62.1         -          -    213.8
2. NCP expertise and training                                   -     30.0        -     31.3                 61.3
3. Environmental sensitivity mapping                            -     78.6              82.6          -      161.3
4. NCP review                                                            -              31.3                 31.3
5. NCP testing/updating                                              224.7        -   236.1           -    460.8
6. NCP coordination                                          16.5     38.5     40.8     43.2       50.1     189.1
Subtotal National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)            16.5    523.4    102.9   424.7         50.1   1,117.6
C. Oil spill response equipment                                   -        .        -        -           -         -
1. Expertise for equipment specification                        -        -     34.9        -          -      34.9
2. Procurement of equipment                                 391.4                 -   647.1           -   1,038.5
3. Equipment operator training                                  -        -        -     34.5           -      34.5
4. National exercices                                           -        -        -     24.0       24.7      48.6
5. Maintenance training                                         -        -        -     34.5           .      34.5
6. Equipment storage                                            -                 -     74.3           -      74.3
Subtotal Oil spill response equipment                         391.4        -     34.9    814.4        24.7   1,265.4
D. National capacity building
1. Workshops                                                    -     38.8     40.0     42.4          -     121.2
2. Training of trainers                                                  -    42.7      43.8          -      86.5
3. External expertise                                           -     65.6     67.4     71.4                204.3
4. International seminars                                       -     32.6    33.5      35.4          -      101.6
5. Expertise for oil spil response manual                       -        -    91.0         -                 91.0
Subtotal National capacity building                               -    137.1    274.5    193.0           -    604.6
E. Regional institutional strengthening                           .                 -        .                     -
1. Convention workshops                                         -        -     55.1        -                 55.1
2. Assistance for project coordination                      124.5    136.2    140.3    144.7          -    545.7
3. Training and seminars                                        -        -        -     42.4       43.6       86.0
4. Regional exercices                                           -        -        -     56.6           -      56.6
5. Regional contingency plan and agreements                     -        -        -     27.0          -      27.0
6. Regional coordination center                                 .        -     33.1     34.7       37.4      105.2
7. Expertise and studies                                    133.8     35.8     37.4    39.1            -    246.1
Subtotal Regional institutional strengthening                 258.3    172.0   266.0    344.5        81.0   1,121.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           764.5  1,261.4    678.4  1,776.5       155.7   4,636.5
32



Annex 3
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Table E
Summary Project Cost by Country
(US$ '000)
Project Components                           Total     Comoros  Madagascar Mauritius  Seychelles  Regional
A. Legislation and regulation for conventions
Subtotal for A               476.8        109.1      175.1       96.3        96.3        0.0
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)
Subtotal for B             1,010.8        290.8      321.7      199.1       199.1        0.0
C. Oil spill response equipment
Subtotal for C             1,096.3        111.4      574.1      160.0       250.8        0.0
D. National capacity building
Subtotal for D               525.1        129.5      183.5      143.3        68.7        0.0
E. Regional institutional strengthening
Subtotal for E               951.2          0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0      951.2
TOTAI BASELINE COST                         4,060.1        640.9    1,254.4      598.8       614.9      951.2
Physical & price contingencies           576.3         91.0       171.8       85.0        87.3      141.3
Sub-total                    576.3        91.0       171.8       85.0        87.3      141.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           4,636.5        731.9    1,426.1      683.7       702.2    1,092.5
33



Annex 3
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Pianning Project
Table F
Cost Table by Component and Country
(USS '000)
Project components                                  Total   Comoros Madagascar Mauritius SeycheUle Regional
A. Legislation and regulation for conventions
1. Trairnng abroad                               206.8     41.4         82.7     41.4      41.4      0.0
2. Regional workshop                              32.8      8.2          8.2      8.2       8.2      0.0
3. Legal expertise for ratification               87.6      22.2        28.1     18.7      18.7      0.0
4. National Legal framework upgrading            149.6      37.4        56.1     28.1      28.1      0.0
Subtotal Legislation and regulation for conventions   476.8    109.1        175.1     96.3      96.3      0.0
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)
1. Oil spill response basic training             195.0      65.0        65.0     32.5      32.5      0.0
2. NCP expertise and trairnng                     56.3      22.5        33.8      0.0       0.0      0.0
3. Envirornmental sensitivity mapping            143.4      50.7        64.7     14.0      14.0      0.0
4. NCP review                                     28.1       5.6        11.3      5.6       5.6      0.0
5. NCP testing/updating                          420.0    105.0        105.0    105.0    105.0       0.0
6. NCP coordination                              168.0      42.0        42.0     42.0      42.0      0.0
Subtotal National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)  1,010.8    290.8       321.7    199.1    199.1       0.0
C. Oil spiH response equipment
1. Expertise for equipment specification          32.0      10.7        21.4      0.0       0.0      0.0
2. Procurement of equipment                      900.0      75.0       450.0    150.0    225.0       0.0
3. Equipment operator training                    30.6       4.4        21.9      0.0       4.4      0.0
4. National exercices                             40.0      10.0        10.0     10.0      10.0      0.0
5. Maintenance training                           30.6       4.4        21.9      0.0       4.4      0.0
6. Equipment storage                              63.0       7.0        49.0      0.0       7.0      0.0
Subtotal Oil spill response equipment                1,096.3    111.4       574.1    160.0    250.8       0.0
D). National capacity building
1. Works Project implementationWorkshops         107.8      23.1        38.5     23.1      23.1      0.0
2. Trairni Training for future trainers           74.6       0.0         0.0     74.6       0.0      0.0
3. Extern External Expertise                     175.0      54.4        80.4     20.1      20.1      0.0
4. Intern International Seminars                  88.2      18.9        31.5     18.9      18.9      0.0
5. Expert Expertise for spill response manual     79.5      33.1        33.1      6.6       6.6      0.0
Subtotal National capacity building                   525.1    129.5        183.5    143.3      68.7      0.0
E. Regional institutional strengthening
1. Convention workshops                           48.2       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0     48.2
2. Assistance for project coordination           455.0      0.0          0.0      0.0       0.0    455.0
3. Trairing and seminars                          72.3       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0     72.3
4. Regional exercices                             48.2       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0     48.2
5. Regional contingency plan and agreements       22.5       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0     22.5
6. Regional coordination center                   90.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0     90.0
7. Expertise and studies                         215.0       0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0    215.0
Subtotal Regional institutional strengthening         951.2       0.0         0.0   0.0       0.0       951.2
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                  4,060.1    640.9     1,254.4    598.8    614.9    951.2
Physical & price contingencies                   576.3      91.0       171.8     85.0      87.3    141.3
Sub-total                           576.3      91.0       171.8     85.0      87.3    141.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                   4,636.5    731.9     1,426.1    683.7    702.2   1,092.5
34



Annox3
Went Indm Oan  biaas
oilW 0Cmdm wPbmrPmgsjod
lTale G
Compcaots by lInmden - Totals Indldg Cotignipcdes
MS r0)
iaOen i smo.lonk iht msbioal
ThD     Rtunion      LO.C.    South Aftrica    Gi!        Gnrunents          Industay    local ldustly     Total
Amount  Amount    Amount          Amount       AmSunt         Amount           Amount        Amount    Amount         %
A Legislatio ard regulaticnf  atfwmnei
1. Traaing alad                                                -                                234.3                 -              -            -      2343        3.t
2 Peegixks,                                        -           -      -                          36.7                0.0             -            -       36.7       0.8
3. Legalespxtaeformfifkatm                      27.9           -          -              -       65.7                                                    593.6       2.0
4.Naloiml1kLplfrwnkupgpodg                      48.9                      -              *      113.8                0.0             -             *     162.7       3.3
SIuthO legsislatim and regulatim fir acnentim     76.8           -          -              -      40.6                 0.0                                 5273       U.A
B National oil Wi   -txucypler (N-                                                                                                                             -         -
1. Oispillresporebictrairva                        -        45.6          -           45.6      122.6                                                    213.8       4.6
2MYxpatise and trmong                              -     -                -           19.7       219                0.0           19.7                    61.3       13
3a IkMrrnen ase-shyinappin                                  27.6          -           27.6      106.1                0.0                                 161.3       3.5
4'NlCreview                                        -           -          -              -       11.2                0.0          20.1             -      313        0.7
5. NPtestig/updatgr-                                                                  22.2      182.9             210.2           22.2          233      460.8       9s
6 NhCP cood-                                                              -      -                  -              189.1                           -     189.1       4.1
&*tdtaitspalttirse          rnp lam                  -        73.2                     115.1      441.7             399.3           62.0         23.3   1,117.6       24.1
C Oil spillrespe equ3pment                                                                      -              -                                               -         -
1. lhpertfsefkoecpnet spficatin                    -        22.1          -                      12.9                0.0                          -       34.9       0.8
2 Puit of e           t                            -           -          -              -      647.1             265.1              -         1263    1,038.5      22A
3.a Fiip ertortmp   -                              -        18.8          -              -       15.7                 -              -            -       345        0.7
4.  N     cKerscies                                -                      -              -       48.6                 -              -            -       48.6       1.0
a  turtancetriwar                                  -        18.8          -              -       15.7                 -              -             .      345        0.7
6. EquIpnst storage                                -           -          -                      74.3                                                     74.3       1.6
SuotalsC 1llrespmnse                                 ' .      59.6          .                     814.4              2651              _         1263    1,265.4      273
T1 'bot  ca' 'y'm'ldkg                                                                                         -                       '             '
1. Wakslvps                                                 12.0                      12.0       72.6               12.6          12.0             -     121.2       2.6
Z Trazar af ftsm                                   -        14.9          -              -       71.7                  -             -             -      86.5       19
3. Ektdeepertise                                   -           -          -              -      204.3                0.0      -         -                2043         4.4
4 InrteTnsrenarlsrws                                           - -                       -       89.0                0.0          12.6             -     101.6       2.2
5. Exprtmeforoilspil uporsernarud                  -           -                       8.0       75.0                 -            il. O                  91.0       2.0
Siubtal N     ti mal  3atyuhing                      '        26.8          -           20.0      312.6               12.6          32.6            -      604.6      13.0
E Reg mal irshtidm    strengl-                                                                                                                     -                     -
1. Ganstimwksl o                                               -          -           10.1       45.0                0.0             -            -       55.1       1.2
2. Asst ref prqoect cordtimti                      -           -       43.0              -      502.7                0.0             -            -      545.7       iI
3 Trir.garmidnsrwrs u                                          -          -            7.8       70.4               0.0            7.8                    86.0      i1
4 FPinxerice                                       -         3.4          -            3.4       46.4               0.0            3.4                    56.6       1.2
5. Piuulantigyuplua-id ag-s                        -           -          -              -       27.0                 -              -            -       27.0       0.6
6. PVginalaxrdi tkcert                             -           -          -              -       57.3              47S               -            -      1052        23
7. E tiseandstudies                                          5.0          -           10.0      180.8               0.0           50.2            -      246.1       53
&*total RFegiwual k.itdijnal str,1hn                 -         8.4       43.0           313       929.6               47.9          61.4            -   1,121.6       24.2
ThUa1PR C ;CrCOS                                  76.8       16M0        43.0          166.4    3,151.8             724.9 n10                    14.6    4616.5      10'0.
Btimeted%ofTotal                                   1.7         3.6        0.9            3.6      6M0                 136            3.4           3.2
35



Annex 4
West Indizn Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Incremental Cost Analysis
Regional Context and Broad Development Goals
The waters surrounding the island countries of the West Indian Ocean are ecologically rich.
Marine and coastal ecosystems include extensive coral reefs that harbor several unique and
endangered species of flora and fauna, such as the coelacanth. Sea turtles, dugons, and many
species of sea birds also thrive in the region.
While the island countries vary in terms of their natural resources, economic basis and level of
income (Comoros and Madagascar are among the poorest countries in the world, with 1996 per
capita incomes of US$460 and US$240 respectively; Mauritius is a middle-income country with
a per capita income of approximately US$3,700, and Seychelles is upper-middle income with a
per capita income of US$6,960), all benefit significantly from tourism and fishing. Tourism in
particular, which is based primarily on the countries' beaches and protected areas, offers great
potential for future development in all countries. In Mauritius, for example, value-added in
tourism is already growing by about 12 percent per year. The governments of the island nations
recognize that their future economic development depends on the health of their natural
resources and all have completed national environmental action plans or management plans to
guide their future development. These plans all name the protection of marine and coastal
ecosystems as priorities for the countries.
The western Indian Ocean is one of the most important and widely-used oil shipping routes in
the world. It is estimated that 350 million tons of crude oil, more than 30 percent of world
petroleum production, pass near or through the coastal waters of the Indian Ocean island states
each year, in transit to North America, Europe and Asia. Thus more than 5,000 tanker voyages
per year take place through the sensitive coastal waters of Comoros and Madagascar, and pass
near the World Heritage Site of Aldabra Atoll of Seychelles. In the last ten years, the amount of
oil transported through the region has risen by over 60 percent. Most of the oil is transported on
about 700 very large crude carriers (250,000 tonnes and over) and 4,000 medium-sized tankers
(average of 60,000 tons). These tankers usually pass through the Mozambique Channel and
between the islands of Grand Comoros and Aldabra. Smaller tankers pass to the east of
Madagascar from ports in Southeast Asia. On average, more than 20 large oil tankers are in
transit through the coastal waters of the island states every day. A maritime accident involving
the discharge of large quantities of oil would have a disastrous impact on the fragile and
sensitive natural resources of the concerned countries, and on their economies, which are not
sufficiently diversified to survive such an incident without serious damage.
36



Of the four countries, only Mauritius and Seychelles have taken precautions to achieve a
measure of protection against Tier 1 spills by acquiring specialized cleanup equipment for use at
oil handling facilities. A risk and impact assessment study was carried out to evaluate (a) the
likelihood that oil spills will occur, from small operational spills at oil handling facilities (Tier 1)
to larger and more serious spills occurring in waters away frcm oil handling ports and harbors,
for which a response would be required (Tier 3); and (b) the damage that would result in the
event of an oil spill.
The study shows clearly that in all countries real risks of small operational spills occurring exist;
there have been many such incidents in recent years. It also shows that Tier 2 events - during
which up to 500 tons oil are spilled at or near harbors by vessels going aground or being
involved in collisions - would have a serious impact locally and may well negatively effect
national and regional tourism.
The study has examined several accident scenarios in which an outflow of 50,000 tons of oil
could occur at different locations within the region (Tier 3 spills). It finds that accidents
involving very large vessels carrying crude oil through the region would likely overwhelm the
organization and response arrangements of the countries concerned, and could have devastating
impacts on the environment of the region damaging coral reefs, seagrass beds, mangroves,
beaches and shorelines, dugons, turtles and seabirds. A large oil spill could also severely harm
the economies of the small island developing states by damaging fishing grounds, amenity
beaches, diving and deep-sea fishing areas; disrupting shipping; and shutting down activities that
depend on seawater intakes to aquaria or industrial plants. Annex 5 contains the executive
summary of the study.
While weather during much of the year is generally good, vwith calm seas and good visibility,
weather patterns during the cyclone season (December throuLgh April) are quite unpredictable,
creating risks of shipping accidents and discharge of marine pollutants.  There are few
navigational hazards through the region, and to date there have been few recorded shipping
accidents in the region. However, the large numbers of tankers, and the great size and carrying
capacity of the vessels involved, create the risk that a very laIge spill occurs in the Mozambique
Channel. Local deliveries of petroleum products also involve some risk of environmental
damage, which is exacerbated by the lack of oil spill response capacity, particularly in
Madagascar and Comoros.
Baseline Scenario
The countries of the region are committed to protecting their marine and coastal ecosystems and
developing regional and national oil spill response capacity.  Seychelles has ratified the
International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation (OPRC90)
and have developed national oil spill contingency plans.2 However its oil spill response capacity
2   This convention defines national obligations to develop and maintain aclequate capacity to respond to oil spill
emergencies and facilitates international assistance in response to oil pollution incidents.
37



remains short of the convention's requirements. Comoros, Madagascar and Mauritius have
committed to ratifying the convention and, given the necessary financial assistance, to meeting
its obligations. However, these country do not have sufficient resources to undertake these
activities without assistance from donors. Currently, regional oil spill response capacity resides
only in South Africa and its Regional Response Center.
Costs. The governments of Seychelles and Mauritius have initiated national contingency
planning to facilitate their national response to an oil spill emergency and have in addition,
started to develop national legal and regulatory frameworks to ensure compliance with the
relevant international conventions, and to build some oil spill response capacity. Neither
Comoros nor Madagascar would undertake these activities without the GEF alternative. Under
the baseline scenario it is expected that the four small island developing states would spend a
total of about US$450,200 during fiscal 1999-2002 to acquire some equipment to deal with oil
spills and set up some very limited oil spill response capacity.
Benefits. Implementation of the baseline scenario would result in increased capacity for
Mauritius and Seychelles to cope with oil spills occurring near their territories. This would
somewhat reduce the risk of contamination of international waters. However, implementation of
the baseline scenario would not ensure protection of globally significant marine and coastal
resources or significantly reduce the risk of contamination of international waters, since no
regional capacity would be developed.
Global Environmental Consequences
Under the baseline scenario, neither Comoros nor Madagascar would be likely to develop any
capacity for meeting oil spill emergencies. The threats to their marine and coastal habitats,
among the most important in the world, would therefore be significant.  Seychelles and
Mauritius would develop limited national capacity primarily for dealing with problems arising in
their home territories, so may be able to respond adequately to Tier 1 oil spills. They would not
have sufficient capacity to deal with a more serious accident, however. No regional capacity
would be developed to enable the nations to join together to respond to accidents regardless of
where they occurred in the region, including in international waters.
GEF Alternative
The GEF alternative would enable the islands of the west Indian Ocean to create and maintain a
regional oil spill response capacity. This would make it possible to address accidents rapidly
wherever they occurred in the region. Rapid response is critical to minimize damage from oil
spills. Building regional capacity would also create a framework for the cooperation among the
countries in other areas of shared concern, such as sustainable fisheries management. The GEF
alternative will also provide the catalyst to bring governments and the local and international oil
shipping industries together in a cooperative partnership that will be sustained through the
establishment of a permanent regional collaboration and financing mechanism. Together
governments and oil companies will develop sustainable institutional and financing
38



to maintain oil spill response capacity. Further, oil companies have pledged to provide
technologies and expertise to address oil spill emergencies.
Costs. The total cost of the GEF alternative is estimated to be US$4,636 thousand, detailed as
follows: (a) legal and regulatory framework for compliance with relevant conventions -
US$527 thousand (GEFfinancing - US$451 thousand); (b) national contingency planning -
US$1,118 thousand (GEFfinancing - US$445 thousand); (c) oil spill response equipment -
US$1,265 thousand (GEFfinancing - US$814 thousand); (d) national capacity building -
US$605 thousand (GEFfinancing - US$513 thousand); (e) regional institutional strengthening
-US$1,122 thousand(GEFfinancing - US$930 thousand).
The proposed project would leverage considerable in-kind resources from contributors, which
would not be available under the baseline scenario. South Africa, Reunion, the oil industry, the
International Maritime Organization, and the Indian Ocean Commission have committed to
contributing US$760,000 for national contingency planning, equipment, the training of operators
and joint exercises, national capacity building and regional insti tutional strengthening.
Benefits. Implementation of the GEF alternative would make it possible to develop true regional
capability to respond to oil spill accidents in the west Indian Ocean region. This would generate
global benefits by limiting contamination of international waters and protecting the globally
important marine and coastal ecosystems such as the World Hleritage Site of Aldabra Atoll of
Seychelles and the sea turtle breeding grounds of Ile Tromelin. It would also generate regional
benefits by creating a framework for future cooperation in matters of common concern, and by
developing sustainable financing mechanisms for the regional initiative between countries and
countries and the oil industry.
Domestic Benefits
The GEF alternative would provide national benefits by reducing risk of catastrophic damage to
beaches and coastal areas important to the tourist industry and to fishing grounds upon which
many residents of the west Indian Ocean island nations depend i.or food and income.
Incremental Costs
The difference between the cost of the baseline scenario (US$450,200) and the cost of the GEF
alternative (US$4.636 million) is estimated to be US$4.1815 million. This represents the
incremental cost for creating regional oil spill response capacity by: (a) formulating the legal and
regulatory framework for ratifying and complying with relevant conventions; (b) developing
national contingency plans; (c) procuring oil spill response equipment for regional institutions;
(d) national capacity building, and (e) strengthening regional institutions. The GEF is requested
to provide a grant of US$3.152 million to finance part of the incremental costs. This will act as a
catalyst for donors and governments, who will contribute the remainder. Details are presented in
Tables A-F.
39



Several donors have committed to participating in the project, provided GEF funds are made
available. Reunion will provide US$168,000, South Africa will provide US$166,400, the
International Maritime Organization will provide US$76,800, the Indian Ocean Commission will
provide US$43,000, and the oil industry will provide US$305,600, for a total of US$759,800
(all contributions are in-kind). Donor support will not be available in the absence of a GEF
project, and therefore their contributions are not counted as baseline costs.
40



Table A Incremental Cost Matrix: Summary
Costs US$(000)1    Domestic Benefits      =        loabl Fnvironment Benefits
Baseline
A. Legislaton and regulation for conventions  0.0 Reduced risk of contaminatio No regional capacity would be developed.
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)    127.9 of beaches and fisheries,  No global benefits would be generated.
C. Oil spill response equipment           322.3 primarily in Mauritius
D. National capacity building               0.0 and Seychelles.
E. Regional institutional strengtlhening    0.0
SUBTOTAL                                  450.2
AlteTnative
A. Legislation and regulation for corventiors    527.3 AU island countries Reduced  Protection of globally significant manne and coastal
B. National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)   1,117.6 risk of contamirnation of    resourres. Prevention of transboundar,v pollution.
C. Oil sp,11 response equipment          1,265.4 beaches and fisheries.   Creation of regional capacity with sustainablk
D. National capacity building             604.6                           institutional and financial arrangements to address
E. Regional institutional strengthening  1,121.6                          other issues of regional concern, such as fishery
manag,cmnt.
SUBTOTAL                                 4,636.5
Increment
A. Leg;ila'aon and regulation for comventions    527.3
B. Natioal oil spill contingency plans (NCP)    989.7
C. Oil spill response cquipmcnt           943.1
D. National capacity building             604.6
E. Regional institutional strengthening  1,121.6
SUBTOTAL                                 4,186.3
GEF Grant                                3,151.S
41



Table B Incremental Cost Matrix: Component A - Legislation and regulations for conventions
Costs USS(O00)             Domestic Benefits                      Global Environment Benefits
Baseline                  No domestic benefits would be generated.     No regional capacity would be developed.
No global benefits would be generated.
.Comoros              0.0
.Madagascar            0.0
.Mauritius             0.0
.Seychelles            0.0
SUBTOTAL               0.0
Alternative                All island countries: Reduced risk of contamination Protection of globally significart marine and
of tourist beaches (in some countries tourism  coastal resources in accordance with relevart
.Comoros             124.6 contributes up to 20 percent of GDP and employs international conventions. Prevention of
.Madagascar         182.8 up to 10 percent of the workforce); arnd fisheries  transboundary pollution. Creation of regional
.Mauritius           110.0 (4 percent of GDP, and substantial subsistence   capacity with sustainable institutional and
.Seychelles          110.0 food resources).                           financial arrangements able to rapidly respond
Avoidance of social upheaval that may accompan to problems.
the loss of employment opportunities and food
resources.
SUBTOTAL             527.3
Increment
.Comoros             124.6
.Madagascar          182.8
.Mauritius           110.0
.Seychelles          110.0
SUBTOTAL            527.3
GIF Grant          450.6
42



Table C Incremental Cost Matrix: Component B - National oil spill contingency plans (NCP)
Costs US$(000)              Domestic Benefits                          Global Environkment Benefits
Baseline               Mauntius and Seychelles: Reduced risk         No regicnal capacity would be developed.
of contamination of beaches and fisheries.   No global benefits would be generated.
.Comoros           11.1 Comoros and Madagascar Improved ability to
.Madagascar        22.3 respond to Tier 1 spills
.Mauritius         55.6
.Seychelles        38.9
SUBTOTAL          127.9
Alternative            All island ountries: Reduced risk of contamination    Nations develop capacity to participate in regional
of marine and coastal resources important to touris  initiative, improving the likelihood that spills are dealt
.Comoros          332.1 (in some countries tourism contributes up to 20  with quickly, and damage contained. Globally important
.Madagascar       330.7 percent of GDP and employs up to 10 percent  marine and coastal resources (coral reefs, seagrass
.Mauntius         227.4 of the workforce); and fisheries (4 percent of GDP,   beds, mangroves, beaches arid shorelines, dugons, turtles
.Seychelles       227.4 and substantial subsistence food resources).  seabirds) are protected. Regional cooperation among
countries and between countries and the oil industrry
Avoidance of social upheaval that may accompany  provides sustainable institutional and financial
the loss of employment opportunities and food  arrangements.
resources.
SUBTOTAL        1,117.6
Increment
.Comoros          321.0
-Madagascar       308.4
.Mauritius        171.8
Seychelles        188.5
SUBTOTAL          989.7
GEF Grant         444.7
43



Table D Incremental Cost Matrix: Component C- Oil spill response equipment
Costs US$(000)              Domestic Benefits                          Global Environment Benefith
Baseline                Mauritius and Seychelles: Reduced risk of     No regional capacity would be developed.
contamination of beaches and fisheries.      No global benefits would be generated.
.Comoros             0.0
.Madagascar          0.0
Mauntius           166.7
.Seychelles        155.6
SUBTOTAL          322.3
Alternative             All island countries Reduced risk of contamination    Nations develop capacity to participate in regional
of marine and coastal resources important to tourism initiative, improving the likelihood that spills are dealt
.Comoros           127.2 (in some countries tourism contributes up to 20  with quickly, and damage contained. Globally important
.Madagascar        669.1 percent of GDP and employs up to 10 percent  marine and coastal resources (coral reefs, seagrass
.Maunitius         182.7 of the workforce); and fisheries (4 percent of GDP,   beds, mangroves, beaches and shorelines, dugons, turtles
.Seychelles       286.3 and substantial subsistence food resources).  seabirds) are protected. Regional cooperation among
countries and between countries and the oil industrry
Avoidance of social upheaval that may accompany  provides sustainable institutional and financial
the loss of employment opportunities and food  arrangements.
resources.
SUBTOTAL         1,265.4
Increment
.Comorcs           127.2
.Madagascar        669.1
.Mauntius           16.0
.Seychelles        130.7
SUBTOTAL           943.1
GEF Grant          814.4
44



Table E Incremental Cost Matrix: Component D - National capacity building
Costs US$(000) Domestic Benefits                            Global Environment Benefits
Baseline               None                                           None
.Comoros            0.0
.Madagascar         0.0
Mauritius           0.0
.Seychelles         0.0
SUBTOTAL            0.0
Alternative            All island wuntfris Reduced risk of contamination  Countries develop capacity to participate in regional
of marine and coastal resources important to tourism  initiative, improving the likelihood that spills are dealt
.Comoros          147.9 (in some countries tourism contributes up to 20  with quickly, and damage contained. Globally imp ortant
.Madagascar       214.5 percent of GDP and employs up to 10 percent   marine and coastal resources (coral reefs, seagrass
Mauritius         163.7 of the workforce); and fisheries (4 percent of GDP,    beds, mangroves, beaches and shorelines, dugora, turtles
.Seychelles        78.5 and substantial subsistence food resources).  seabirds) are protected. Regional cooperation among
countries and between countries and the oil industrry
Avoidance of social upheaval that may accompany   provides sustainable institutional and financial
the loss of employment opportunities and food  arTangexments.
resources.
SUBTOTAL          604.6
Increment
.Comoros          147.9
.Madagascar       214.5
.Mauritius        163.7
.Seychelles        78.5
SUBTOTAL          604.6
GEF Grant         512.6
45



Table F  Incremental Cost Matrix: Component E -Regional institutional strengthening
Costs US$(000)              Domestic Benefits                         Global Environment Benefits
Baseline
.Comoros           0.0 None                                         None
.Madagascar        0.0
.Mauntius          0.0
.Seychelles        0.0
SUBTOTAL           0.0
Alternative            AS idand aDuntries Reduced risk of contamination    Creation of regional capacity improves the likelihood
of marine and coastal resources important to touris that spills are dealt with quickly, and damage
.Comoros      n.d.    (in some countries tourism contributes up to 20  contained. Globally important
.Madagascar   n.d.    percent of GDP and employs up to 10 percent   marine and coastal resources (coral reefs, seagrass
Mauritius     n d.    of the workforce); and fisheries (4 percent of GDP,   beds, mangroves, beaches and shorelines, dugons, turtles
.Seychelles   n.d.    and substantial subsistence food resources).  seabirds) are protected. Regional cooperation among
countries and between countries and the oll industrry
Avoidance of social upheaval that may accompany  provides sustainable institutional and financial
the loss of employment opportunities and food  arrangements.
resources.
SUBTOTAL         929.6
Increment
.Comoros          n.d.
.Madagascar       n.d.
.Mauritius        n.d.
.Seychelles       n.d.
SUBTOTAL           0.0
GEF Grant        929.6
46



Annex 5
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Arrangements
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all wholly or partly GEF/Bank financed
contracts.
General. All procurement for the national components as well as for the regional component
will be carried out by the IOC through the PMU. Goods wholly or partly fmanced by GEF/Bank
would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and
September 1997. Consultancy services wholly or partly financed by GEF/Bank would be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September
1997. The PMU responsible for procurement will be strengthened to ensure that staff have
adequate skills and competence to implement the project. As soon as possible and no later than
negotiations, a General Procurement Notice is to be prepared by IOC and transmitted to the
Bank for publication in the United Nations Development Business to advertise all ICB goods and
major consulting assignments expected to be financed by GEF/Bank under the project. During
negotiations assurances will be obtained from IOC that the procurement arrangements will be
followed during project implementation. Table A below provides information on the project
elements, their estimated costs and methods of procurement including elements financed by the
GEF/Bank as well as those financed by other sources.
Procurement of goods and equipment. Contracts for the supply of goods and equipment
valued at $100,000 or more will be procured under ICB. No Nationa]l Competitive Bidding
(NCB) is expected. Small items of equipment, goods and materials costing less than US$ 30,000
per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 70,000, will be procured procured through international
shopping, on the bais of quotations from at least three eligible suppliers.
Prior and post review by the Bank for goods and equipment contracts. All GEF/Bank
financed goods contracts above the threshold of US$100,000 per contract will be subject to prior
review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. All other contracts under these
thresholds will be subject to post review.
Procurement of consulting services and training. Recruitment of consulting firms for the
project, training of personnel, technical assistance and studies, will be carried out under the
47



Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCSB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Exception to using the QCSB method will apply to financial audits for which the Least Cost
Selection will be used (US$150,000 in aggregate). Consulting assignments that cost less than
US$100,000 contract, for which at least three regional/national firms are capable of doing such
assignments will be recruited on the basis of a short list of regional/national firms. Recruitment
of individual consultants for assistance to IOC and/or PMU to carry out project implementation
will be done on the basis of qualifications and experience in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. For experts provided to the project by the partners, procurement will only involve
travel and subsistence expenditures which will be processed under SOEs (see Disbursement
Section).
Prior and post review by the Bank for consultancy contracts. All consultant contracts
expected to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more per contract with firms, all audit
contracts and all contracts with individuals expected to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or
more per contract will be subject to prior review by the Bank. With respect to each contract for
the employement of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$ 200,000
and more than US$ 100,000 and all financial management assistance and audit contracts, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 ( other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a))
and 5 of Appendix Ito the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. With respect to each contract
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
1, 2 ( other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply. All other contracts will be subject to post review. These procurement
thresholds are summarized in Table B below.
Procurement implementation schedule and advance procurement actions. IOC will provide
a detailed timetable for the implementation of the project following appraisal (by September
1998). This timetable will be used as a basis for monitoring of procurement processing. The
following documents will also be prepared by IOC and transmitted to the Bank for review: (a)
draft General Procurement Notice; (b) draft bidding documents for ICB goods; (c) terms of
reference (TORs), short list, Letter of Invitation (LOI), draft model contract for studies,
expertise and training. These documents will be agreed during negotiations, and finalized prior
to Board presentation.
Reporting. It will be agreed with IOC that a monthly progress report up to grant effectiveness
will be prepared in sufficient detail and transmitted to the Bank. During project implementation
(after effectiveness), a semiannual report will be adequate. These details will include: major
procurement actions dealt with during the previous semester and major procurement actions
planned for the following semester, an update of the procurement implementation table, time
taken for specific actions such as completion of essential bidding documents, bid evaluation,
compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Disbursement Arrangements
The total estimated disbursements, including all sources of financing over the project life are
summarized in Table D below. The total funds proceeds would be disbursed over five years.
48



The GEF/Bank grant disbursements will cover the following percentages indicated below:
Equipment, goods, and materials: (US$ 778.7 thousand): 2:5% of total expenditures excluding
taxes.
Expertise and consultants'services (US$1,587.4 thousand): 5;0% of total expenditures excluding
taxes.
Training (US$ 785.7 thousand): 25% of total expenditures excluding taxes.
Closing date. The closing date is June 30, 2003, six months after completion of project
execution (December 31, 2002). An aggregate amount of up to US$350,000 has been included
in the project costs to refinance the project preparation grant, PPG, (PDF Block B). This is for
expenditures incurred for technical expertise services and studies devoted to project preparation.
Minimum disbursements. The minimum application amount for payments directly from the
grant account or for issuance of Special commitments will be US$10,000 equivalent (to be
confirmed during negotiations).  Disbursements will be fully documented except that
withdrawals will be made on the basis of statements of expenses (SOEs) for the items below:
* Equipment, goods and materials valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent;
- Expertise and consultants' services and training contracts valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent, and individual consultant contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent;
* Travel and subsistence expenditures for training, seminars, workshops and external experts
provided to the project by the partners valued at less than US$ 10,000 equivalent per
individual.
Special Account. If requested by the IOC, and to facilitate disbursements against eligible
expenditures for small contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, one Special Account
(SA), will be established in the name of the IOC. The SA will be opened and maintained in a
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$200,000,
corresponding to about four months of expenditures. Replenishment application will be
submitted at monthly intervals and will include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.
49



Annex 5
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Prcect
Table A
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Procurement Arrangements                   International
(US$ '000)                                  Competitive
Bidding         Other        N.B.F.       Total
A. Equipment, goods & materials                     704.4            74.3      391.4       1,170.0
(704.4)         (74.3)         -        (778.7)
B. Expertise & consultants' services                  0.0         1,587.4      625.9       2,213.4
-       (1,587.4)         -      (1,587.4)
C. Training                                           0.0           785.7      230.4       1,016.1
-         (785.7)         -       (785.7)
D. Operating costs                                    0.0             0.0      237.0        237.0
704.4        2,447.4    1,484.7       4,636.5
(704.4)      (2,447.4)          -     (3,151.8)
Note: Figures in parernthesis are the respective amounts financed by GEF
50



Annex 5
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil S pill Contingency Planring Project
Table B
Procurement Thresholds
(US$)
Expenditure Category                         Contract Value        Procurement        Contracts Subject to
(Threshold)          Method             Prior Review
1. Equipnlnt, goods and ximterials                 >= 100,000            LC.B.              >=100,000
<30.000            Quotation
2. Expertise & corsultants' services  Fimis                          Q.C.B.S.LC.S.          >=100,000
Individual                         hldividuals          >=50,000
51



Annex 5
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Table C
Allocation of Grant Proceeds
GEF
(US$ '000)
Suggested Allocation
of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category                           Grant    Financing
Amount
1. Equipment, goods and materials                707.9          100
2. Expertise & consultants services             1,464.4         100
3. Training                                      730A           100
Unallocated                                      249.1          100
Total                                            3,151.8
Grant amounts financed by GEF
Annex 5
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Table C
Allocation of Grant Proceeds
GEF
(SDR '000)
lSDR = 1.32649 US$
Suggested Allocation
of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category                        Grant    Financing
Amount        %
1. Equipment, gDoo andmaterials              533.7         100
2. Expertise & consultants' services         1,104.0        100
3. Training                                    550.6        100
Unallocated                                    187.8        100
Total                                          2,376.1
52



Annex 5
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Plarning Project
Table D
Disbursement per year
Total Project Disbursement
(in US$ '000)
Bank FY      1999      2000     2001      2002     2003
Annual           382.3  1,013.0    969.9  1,227.4   1,043.9
Cumulative       382.3   1,395.2  2,365.1   3,592.5  4,636.5
Percentage          8 %      30%      51%       77%     100%
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
GEF Disbursement
(in US$ '000)
Bank FY      1999      2000     2001      2002     2003
Annual           131.7    564.2    699.6    9;,1.5    784.8
Cumulative       131.7    695.9  1,395.5  2,367.0  3,151.8
Percentage          4%       22%      44%       75%     100%
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
Other contributors (in-kind) Disbursement
(in US$ '000)
Bank FY      1999      2000     2001      2002     2.003
Annual           250.6    448.8    270.3    255.9    259.1
Cumulative       250.6    699.3    969.6  1,225.5   1,484.7
Percentage         17%       47%      65%       83%     100%
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
53



Annex 6
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
224.8                164.8
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         13               18 months
First Bank mission (identification)            12/16/1996           12/16/1996
Appraisal mission departure                    06/20/1998           06/23/1998
Negotiations                                   09/25/1998           09/25/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  12/21/1998              / /19
Prepared by: Indian Ocean Commission
Preparation assistance: PDF Block B Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Abdelmoula Ghzala (AFTT1)                Engineering
Robin Broadfield (ENVGC)                 GEF Coordinator
Philippe de Naurois (AFTT1)              Financial Analyst
Alison Cave (AFTT2)                      Environmental Specialist
Wendy Ayres (AFTT2)                      Environmental Specialist
Adelaide Barra (AFTT2)                   Team Assistant
Carl Lundin (ENV)                        Environmental Specialist
Elizabeth Adu (LEGAF)                    Legal aspects
Paul Vandenheede (LOAAF)                 Disbursement
Bertrand Ah-Sue (AFTS2)                  Procurement
54



Annex 7
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Documents in the Project File"
A. Staff Assessments
Draft Project Concept Document (PCD) and Departmental Review Meeting Minutes
(6/18/97)
Final Project Concept Document (PCD) (5/6/98)
Draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and Minutes of'Appraisal Decision Meeting
(06/15/98)
B. Other
* Identification mission BTO including aide-memoire and implementation schedule
(12/16/96)
* Preparation missions BTO including aide-memoires
* Appraisal mission BTO including aide-memoire (July 1998)
* GEF Project Preparation Grant Agreement (GEF-PPG)
. Risk and Impact Assessment ("Risk and Impact of Oil Spills for the Indian Ocean
Islands")
T Institutional and Financial Sustainability Study
* Project Information Document
*Including electronic files.
55



Annex 8
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Table A Comoros
Project ID     Loan or   Fiscal   Borrower           Purpose            IDA      Canceltions    Undisbursed                Last ARPP
Credit    Year                                                                                        Supervision Ratingsa
No.                                                                                           Development       Implementation
Objectives            Progress
KM-PE-596       25530       1994    GOC          Population and Human      13.00          0.00             1.7           S                 S
Resources
KM-PE-606       26320       1994    GOC          Small Enterprise           5.1           0.00             1.9           S                 S
Development
KM-PE-604       29310       1997    GOC          Agriculture Services       1.6           0.00            0.9           U                  U
KM-PE-603       N0310       1997    GOC          Education III              7.0           0.00            6.9            S                 S
KM-PE-44824    30110        1998    GOC          Social Fund               11.5           0.00           11.5          N/A                N/A
KM-PE-52887    30430        1998    GOC          Health                     8.4           0.00            8.4          N/A                N/A
Total                                     46.6           0.00           31.2
a/      Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter-
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance
Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
56



Table B Madagascar
Project ID    Loan or   Fiscal   Borrower           Purpose            IDA     Cancellations   Undisbursed              Last ARPP
Credit    Year                                                                                      Supervision Ratingsa
No.                                                                                         Development      Implmentation
Objectives           Progress
MG-PE-1512      21170      1990    GOMr        TanaPlainDevelopment       30.5          0.00           18.8           S                U
MG-PE-1515      20940      1990    GOMr        Education Sector Rein      39.0          0.6             0.4           S                 S
MG-PE-1540      21040      1990    GOMr        Financial Sector/APEX      48.0                         14.5           S                 S
MG-PE-1520      22510      1991    GOMr        National Health Sector     31.0          0.00            8.3           S                 S
MG-PE-1549      22430      1991    GOMr        Livestock                  19.8          0.00            5.6           S                 S
MG-PE-1552      23820      1992    GOMr        Vocational Education       22.8          0.00            4.9           S                 S
MG-PE-1553      24740      1993    GOMr        Food Security and          21.3           0.00           3.7           S                 S
Nutrition
MG-PE-1550      24970      1993    GOMr        Financial Institutions      6.3          0.00            2.9           S                 S
MG-PE-1558      25380      1994    GOMr        Pet Sec Reform             51.9         13.30           34.2           U                U
MG-PE-1583      25910      1994    GOMr        Urban Works Pilot          18.3           0.00           0.0           S                HS
MGPE-1522       26440      1995    GOMr        Irrigation II              21.2          0.00           14.6           S                 S
MG-PE-1563      27290      1995    GOMr        Agriculture Extension      25.2          0.00           13.4           S                 S
MG-PE-35669    27780       1996    GOMr        Social Fund II             40.0           0.00          15.8           S                 S
MG-PE-1533      28440      1996    GOMr        Energy Sector              46.0           0.00          38.2           S                 S
Development
MG-GE-1537      N0090      1997    GOMr        Environment II             30.0           0.00          23.3           S                 S
MG-PE-1555                 1997    GOMr        Private Sector             23.8           0.00          21.2          N/A              N/A
Development, Capacity
Building
MG-PE-40019    29110       1997    GOMr        Capacity Building          13.8           0.00           8.9           S                 S
MG-PE-48697    29680       1997    GOMr        Urban Infrastructure       35.0          0.00           33.0           S                 S
MG-PE-1559                 1998    GOMr        Education Sector Dev       65.0           0.00          64.3          N/A              N/A
MG-PE-1564                 1998    GOMr        Rural Water Sector Pilot   17.3           0.00          17.0          N/A               N/A
MG-PE-1568      30600      1998    GOMr        Nutrition II               27.6           0.00          27.5          N/A               N/A
Total                                   633.8          13.9           370.3
a/      Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter-
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance
Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
57



Table C Mauritius
Project ID    Loan or   Fiscal   Borrower            Puwrpose         IBRI      CanceUations   Undisbursed                 Last ARPP
Credit    Year                                                                                         Supervision Ratina
No.                                                                                           Developmen       ImplemeWnation
Objedives             Progress
MU-PE-1906    33330       1991    GOM          Agriculture Services       10.00          6.00            1.90          U                  U
MU-PE-1914    32770       1991    GOM          Environment Monitoring    12.37           0.00            2.20          S                  S
and Development
MU-PE-1899    34010       1992    GOM          Industry and Vocational     5.40          1.00            1.20          U                  U
training
MU-PE-1920    35780       1993    GOM          Education Sector          20.00           0.00           11.10          U                  U
MU-PE-1918    37360       1994    GOM          Technical Assistance       7.70           0.00            4.19          S                  S
MU-PE-1926    39090       1995    GOM          Port Development and      30.50           0.00           17.00          S                  S
Environment Protection
MU-PE-1923    38590       1995    GOM          H & T Education            16.00          0.00           13.72          U                  U
MU-PE-1926    39080       1998    GOM          Environmental Sewerage    12.40           0.00           12.40         N/A                N/A
and Sanitation
Total                                   101.97           7.00           55.76
a/   Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter-based
system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance
Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
58



Table D Seychelles
Project ID    Loan or    Fiscal  Borrower           Purpose          IBRD    Cancellations   Undisbursed                 Last ARPP
Credit No.   Year                                                                                      Supervision Ratingsa
Development      Implementation
Objectives           Progress
SC-PE-2383     33330       1991    GOS         Environment/Transport      4.5          0.00            2.0           S                  S
Total                                     4.5          0.00            2.0
al    Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter-
based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance
Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
59



AEAT-3541 Draft
Annex 9
West Indian Ocean Islands
Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Risk and Impact of Oil Spills for the Indian Ocean Islands:
Report produced for the Indian Ocean Commission
Executive Summary
The World Bank is considering an application for funding for a Contingency Planning Project
covering the Indian Ocean islands of Comoros, Madagascar, Mauritius and Seychelles. The
underlying rationale for the project is the large volume of oil tanker traffic passing through the
area, the environmental importance of the area, the high dependence of the economies of the
island states on the marine and coastal resources, and the current low level of preparedness in the
region.
In order to help prepare and develop the Contingency Planning Project, AEA Technology was
commissioned to undertake a risk and impact assessment study. The specific objectives of this
study were to evaluate the risks of exposure to oil spills arising from marine accidents that could
arise from the transport of oil through the Region; to evaluate the environmental and
socioeconomic consequences of the most probable types of oil spill identified in the assessment;
and to identify opportunities for reducing the impact of spills though spill prevention or
mitigation measures.
The "headline" characteristics of oil transportation through the Indian Ocean are well-known:
almost one-third of the world's total petroleum production and over half of the world's sea-trade
in crude oil pass through these waters. However, in practice, these data provide little insight into
the actual likelihood or characteristics of oil spillages nor of their impact potential.
The vast majority of oil trade through the Indian Ocean arises from oil production in the Middle
East. Although the levels of oil production are subject to annual fluctuations, the general trend
over the last 10 years has been for a steady increase with a rise of over 60% in the total volume
of oil exported.
In 1996, 742 million tonnes of crude oil passed near or though the Region, of which only 22
million tonnes was actually destined for delivery within the Region. Approximately 390 million
tonnes was transported from the Middle East to the Asia-Pacific region, with the majority of the
remaining 352 million tonnes passing along the Mozambique Channel.
Tanker routes for oil transported from the Middle East to the Far East pass close to the southern
tip of India, close to the Maldives, and are generally too far north to form an important part of
this study. Oil transported through the Mozambique Channel is destined for the markets of
AEA Technology
60



Europe and America - large shipments of oil to Europe use this; route rather than the Suez Canal
because the very large crude carriers (VLCCs) i.e. >250,000 tonnes cannot pass through the
Suez Canal fully laden. A third route is becoming increasingly important in the Region, namely
that for tankers transporting oil from the Far East to Europe and North America - this route
passes along the east coast of Madagascar.
In 1996, oil transportation through the Mozambique Channel involved 700 very large crude
carriers (VLCCs) i.e.>250,000 tons and 4,000 medium-size (-60,000 tons) tankers.
The volume of oil transported along the southern route from the Far East past South Africa is
still small in comparison with the other routes and accounts for less than 15 million tonnes
annually.
Whilst these annual trade figures highlight the significant levels of oil transport that are
occurring within the Region, an evaluation of risk requires an appreciation of many factors
including vessel traffic densities for both oil-carrying and non-oil carrying vessels, vessel types,
navigational hazards and weather patterns. In many cases, the incidence of previous accidents
provides useful information on the potential causes and likely locations for such major incidents
to occur.
Regional im!- )rts of oil amount to approximately 2 million tonnes annually, comprising
approxima iy 360,000 tonnes of crude oil, 420,000 tonnes of fuel oil and the remainder (the
majority) lighter oils such as gas-oil (marine diesel). These lighter oils are generally have low
persistence in the marine environment, but in many cases can be more toxic to marine organisms
than the heavier fuel oils.
Madagascar imports 300-400,000 tonnes of crude oil annually for the refinery at Toamasina
(Tamatave), although production difficulties at the refinery have resulted in recent fluctuations
in that value. No other countries in the Region import crude oil. Relatively significant
quantities of fuel oil are imported into the Region, being transported from the Arabian Gulf,
South Africa or as exports from Madagascar.
Information has been collated from the principal oil importers into each of the countries to
determine the frequency, typical cargo size and routes for itankers transporting oil into and
around the Region. Tanker sizes for fuel oil range from 4,000 to 40,000 tonnes and for gas-oil
13,000 to 40,000 tonnes. In total these tankers make approxinmately 200 visits annually to ports
in Madagascar, Mauritius and Seychelles. This local tanker traffic indicates the potential for
Tier 1 spills, for example due to minor accidents during fuel tramsfer operations, and also Tier 11
spills, for example as a result of collisions or grounding incidents.
Information was collected on both the causes of oil spills world-wide and on previous accidents
within the Region. These data were obtained from a variety of sources, including ITOPF
records, Oil Spill Intelligence Reports and during local consultations. There have been at least 5
major spills involving significant (20,000 - 90,000 tonnes) of crude oil along the Mozambique
Channel route. Whilst these previous accidents have been along the western side of the channel
61



or on approach to South Africa, they indicate the potential for serious spillages in this area.
Information was also collected on approximately 50 local incidents that led to oil spillages of a
few tonnes of fuel oil or marine diesel. The most serious local incident was in Seychelles in
1970, when a Royal Navy vessel Ennerdale struck an uncharted reef causing a spill of over
40,000 tonnes of refined furnace oil.
Examination of the accident data indicates two significant regional hazards. Firstly, seasonal
cyclonic winds - these typically cause 4 to 5 incidents each year along the coast of Madagascar.
Second, grounding incidents on reefs.
An assessment of the risk of serious tanker accidents in the Mozambique Channel has been made
using two approaches - one based on a 10-year analysis of world-wide tanker accidents and the
other based on casualty estimates derived from Canadian marine traffic data. The consequent
estimates of the risk of accidents were combined with data on the risk of oil spills in the event of
an accident. The analysis indicates that the likelihood of oil spills in the Mozambique Channel is
0.075-0.3/year for all spills and 0.015-0.06/year for spills greater than 100 tonnes.  The
information collated on previous spills indicates that at least 5 serious spills have occurred in the
last 30 years i.e. 0.16 large spills per year. The data on recorded incidents confirm that the
overall level of accidents in the Mozambique Channel is typical of similar world-wide accident
rates.
To evaluate the risk of collisions, a database of one years data for all vessel movements along
the East Africa coast and to the islands of the Region was purchased from Lloyds Maritime
Services. The database contained informnation on over 17,000 individual vessel movements and
was analyzed to identify the most congested areas with the potential for accidental collisions.
The data show that the highest number of vessel movements (with consequent implications for
congestion on shipping lanes and hence collisions) is at Mombassa (1339 per year), followed by
Dar Es Salaam (985 per year), Mauritius (890 per year). Only 61 vessel movements were
recorded for Comoros, of which 42 were actually at Mayotte, leaving just 19 at Grand Comore.
The risk of a range of other incidents such as grounding, pipeline leakage or bunkering incidents
has also been considered.
On the basis of the risk assessment and the perception of key risks identified by key local
organisations during the local consultation meetings, a number of oil spill scenarios were
identified for further detailed analysis using the OSIS oil spill model These scenarios were
selected to include both the relatively high frequency events and low frequency/high
consequence events.
Madagascar - Nosy Be    Moderate spill caused by vessel grounding on approach to harbour.
January. 500 tonnes heavy fuel oil
Madagascar - Nosy Be    Moderate spill caused by vessel grounding on approach to harbour.
October. 500 tonnes heavy fuel oil
Madagascar - Toliara    Moderate spill caused by vessel grounding on approach to harbour.
500 tonnes of heavy fuel oil
62



Madagascar - Toamasina  Major spill caused by vessel collision outside Toamasina. 20,000
tonnes Iranian Light crude
Mauritius - Port Louis    Moderate spill caused by vessel collision on approach to harbour.
500 tonnes of heavy fuel oil
Mauritius - Grande Baie  Moderate spill caused by vessel grounding after engine failure. 500
tonnes of heavy fuel oil
Mauritius - Grande Baie  Minor spill caused by fishing boat sinking. 2 tonnes diesel
Seychelles - Mahe       Major spill following grounding of fuel oil tanker on approach to
St. Anne. January. 500 tonnes heavy fuel oil
Seychelles - Mahe       Major spill following grounding of fuel oil tanker on approach to
St. Anne. July. 500 tonnes heavy fuel oil
Seychelles - Mahe       Minor spill of fuel oil during loading/unloading operations at St.
Anne storage facility. 2 tonnes heavy fuel oil
Seychelles - Mahe       Major spill of non-persistent oil following accident near fuel
storage tanks at St. Anne. 500 tonnes marine diesel
Regional scenarios      Major spill of 50,000 tonnes crude oil following grounding or
collision event in main shipping lanes. Nine scenarios at a variety of locations and in different
seasons to indicate principal areas at risk.
The oil spill calculations have provided information on the probability that the oil travels in a
particular direction (based on seasonal meteorological data) on the volume and viscosity of oil
beached on the shoreline, on the time to beaching, on the area potentially impacted by surface oil
slicks, on the volume of oil remaining in the surface slick and the volume of oil dispersed in the
water column.
The results of each scenario are presented in detail in the main report, but the following general
characteristics may be observed:
D the impact potential of oil spills around Seychelles, Comoros and north-western Madagascar
exhibits marked seasonal variations - due to the seasonal variations in monsoon winds;
* for many beaching events, the available response time will be very short - a few hours;
* for many beaching events, the volume of oil beached will be relatively high since the short
time at sea precludes natural dispersion;
* fuel oil used in the Region (both IF0160 for Seychelles and IF0360 for Mauritius) show a
high degree of persistence and surface slicks may be found at some considerable distance from
the release point, albeit at small volumes;
Seychelles: north east monsoon winds are generally light and variable, coupled with an easterly
surface current. Oil slicks would tend to move east or south-east over the Mahe bank. South-
west monsoon winds are generally more constant and higlher speed, oil slicks would tend to
move north and north-east, away from Mahe but towards Praslin and other smaller islands.
* Mauritius: winds influenced by Trade Winds rather than seasonal monsoon winds, prevailing
easterly wind, weak westerly surface currents. Oil spills would tend to move west away from
Mauritius, but small volumes of highly weathered oil could impact on Reunion;
* Madagascar (East coast): predominantly easterly winds, very strong southerly surface
currents. Slicks would beach to the south of the release point very rapidly;
63



* Madagascar (north west coast): winter north westerly winds, summer stronger south easterly
winds, weak northerly currents. Impact potential highly seasonal, more beaching in winter
months, less in summer;
* southern tanker route (Singapore to Cape Town): calculations demonstrate the potential for
these major spills to impact on Mauritius, Reunion and southern Madagascar;
* western tanker route (Aden to Cape Town): spills occurring on the western side of the
Mozambique Channel would tend to move towards the coast of East Africa rather than affecting
the Indian Ocean Islands;
* western tanker route (Aden to Cape Town): spills occurring near Comoros have potential to
cause major beaching of oil on Comoros;
* western tanker route (Aden to Cape Town): the route passes to the west of Aldabra atoll,
spills occurring near Aldabra tend to be transported further west under the action of surface
winds and currents;
The impact potential of oil spills in the Indian Ocean is immense, including environmental
features such as coral reefs, seagrass beds, mangroves, beaches and shorelines, dugons, turtles,
seabirds; and economic factors such as industrial fishing, artisanal fishing, fish farms, amenity
beaches, diving & deep-sea fishing, disruption to ports, seawater intakes to aquaria or industrial
plant and salt production. A brief description of the potential effects is provided.
In order to evaluate the potential impact of the most likely oil spill calculations, profiles of the
environmental and socioeconomic sensitivities of each of the island states has been developed.
This was based initially, on a review of existing environmental data undertaken by the World
Conservation Monitoring Centre and supplemented by additional data obtained during the
regional visit. The principal economic data relating to fishing, tourism and other marine or
coastal resources has also been examined.
The general level of knowledge of environmental sensitivities is good, with many relevant
previous and on-going projects funded under the auspices of the IOC, World Bank, EU and UN.
However, only in Seychelles and Mauritius has substantial progress been made towards collating
that information into a format that would be of use during oil spill response operations. This
information is critical to effective response, since different response techniques would be
employed in different locations depending on the local sensitivities. Moreover, it is essential to
the effective prioritisation of clean-up or protection strategies. This information is required not
only for locally based response during small spills (Tier 11) but also to permit effective action by
intemationally based response teams during major (Tier 1II) situations.
The economic dependencies on marine and coastal resources are readily apparent:
* In Seychelles, tourism accounts for 20% of GDP and generates 70% of the countries total
foreign exchange eamings. The tourism industry is based entirely around coastal resources with
particular vulnerability to the consequences of an oil spill. Approximately 3,000 people were
employed in the tourism industry in 1995. An almost identical number of people are employed
in the fishing industry - approximately half as artisanal fishermen and the remainder in
industrial fishing or tuna canning. Fisheries accounts for 4% of GDP and 85% of total domestic
exports.
64



* Recent attempts to reduce the dependence of Mauritius on the sugar industry have been
successful, and tourism is now the 4th most important contributor to tihe econiomy. Gross
earnings from tourism in 1996 were US$233 million and approximately 50,000 people were
employed directly and indirectiy in the tourist industry i.e. 109%,o of tne total worikrorce. Fisheries
contributes approximately US$l5million to the economy and e mploys almost 6,000 people.
* In Comoros, locally caught fish make a major contribution to the subsistence economy,
providing income and a valuable food-source. As Comoros is not self-sufficient in foodstuffs,
this locally occurring resource is particularly valuable. ?ourism presently contributes only 3%
of the GDDP_ but efforts are being made to increase the income from it-urism subst nfiafly in thhe
future.
The potential environmental and socioeconomic impacts of the most li! lv oil spill scenarios
have been examined. in almost every case the spill has the potential to have a severe deleterious
lmpact on some important local feature. For example, in -he case of 'he oil sp,ills considered
near Grande Baie in Mauritius, there is a possibility of oil impacting on the principal tourist
areas in Mauritius, with high consequential economic impacts. Under different meteorological
conditions, the spill would move towards the internationally important seabird breeding sites, at
Ile Round and Ile aux Serpents with high conseauential environmental impacts. Under a third
set of meteorological vondiiions, the principal impact woulu loe related to the effect f duispex see
oil concentrations on artisanal fisheries, constituting high environmental., economic and social
impacts.
The OSIS oil spill model has also been used to identify those sites where oil spillages could
affect the Aldabra World Heritage Site. Initially, OSIS was used to examine the persistence of
spills of a range of sizes and this information was used to determine the effective transit time for
a spill impacting on the atoll. OSIS was then used to provide back-tracks under a range of
meteorological conditions to identify potential spill locations. These studies have allowed
diagrams to be drawn showing the probability that a spill could impact on Aldabra and hence to
identify the high risk areas that may require additional protection. The analysis shows that the
areas of highest risk lie to the south east of Aldabra - along a line stretching from Aldabra
towards the northern tip of Madagascar.
Vessel routing charts indicate that the main tanker lanes would not cross the high risk area and
that, consequently, the potential for major spills in this area is low. The more likely spill
scenarios in this area relate to tankers carrying crude oil to l'oamasina.
The OSIS oil spill model also simulates the impact of mechanical recovery of oil and the
application of dispersants. OSIS has been used to examine the change in environmental and
socioeconomic impact if Tier 1 counter-measures had been in place in each of the major ports.
Analysis of these scenarios is still underway.
65



* Annex 10
West Indian Ocean Islands
GEF Indian Ocean Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Countries at a Glance
6
66



Comoros at a glance                                                              10/1/98
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan      Low-
Comoros    Africa  Income        Development dlamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     0.52      614     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                  400       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                    0.21      309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       2.6       2.7      2.1      G                              G
Labor force (%)                                      2.4       2.6      2.3      GNP                            Gross
per           -               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)             32        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     60        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             65        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            ..        ..       61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               48        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 43        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  74      75        91            -     Comoros
Male                                                ..       82       100                  Low-income group
Female                                              .,       67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos'
GDP (US$ billions)                           ..    0.16       0.21      0.19
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                  ..    23.6      18.9      22.7                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..    16.4      19.8     22.0
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..    -1.5      -6.1      -2.6
Gross national savings/GDP                   ..    15.8       13.6      13.4
Current account balance/GDP                   ..    -9.7      -9.0    -14.8      Domestic        A
Interest payments/GDP                                0.5       0.3      1.1   o     is                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..   102.5      96.1    128.5       avings
Total debt service/exports                   ..      6.6       2.3
Present value of debtUGDP                     ..      ..      56.3
Present value of debVexports                 ..       ,.    195.3
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                4.1      0.1    -0.4        0.0       3.3                  Comoros
GNP per capita                     1.2    -2.5    -3.2        -2.9       ..                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services     15.3      8.6      4.6       3.5      4.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment l%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  ..    37.4       38.7      38.7    40
Industry                                     ..    12.9       12.8     12.8    20
Manufacturing                                      3.7       5.3       5.3
Services                                     ..    49.6       48.5     48.5      o
992 \                9    97
Private consumption                           ..    73.8      90.9     89.1    .20
General government consumption               ..    27.6       15.2      13.5             --GDI          K'GDP
Imports of goods and services                ..    41.5       44.7     47.3
(average annual growth)                 1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%}
Agriculture                                 4.2      0.6      -0.1       0.5    so
Industry                                    3.2      3.5      -0.6     -0.2   I   \
Manufacturing                             4.8      1.4      -0.2      -0.1 
Services                                    4.2    -1.1       -0.7     -0.4    20
Private consumption                         3.3    -0.4       -2.1      0.3      o
General government consumption              3.1    -7.5      -11.4     -4.8                             99
Gross domestc investment                    0.6    -1.1        0.1      2.5   *20
Imports of goods and services               2.4    -1.0       -4.0      3.0                  Exports   -m ports
Gross national product                      3.8      0.1      -0.7     -0.4
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Comoros
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997   ! Inflatlon(
Domestic pHlces
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                                ..      7.4       2.1       1.9    20
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..      7.4       2.3       3.5
10
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                ..    33.3       20.8      20.8    .10
Current budget balance                         ..    15.7       -1.4      -0.3             -     GDP dator -      Cp
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -11.7       -7.7      -6.8   |
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1976     1986       1996      1997     Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..      20          6        15     75 T
Otherfood                                    ..       16         3         5
Otherfood      .                              ..       2         1         0     5*
Manufactures                                 ..       ..                         so
Total imports (cifl                            ..      39         62        68          *                    * 
Food                                          ..       7        12        20     25
Fuel and energy                              ..        5         4         8
Capital goods                                ..       ..        ..        13      0
Export price index (1995=100J                  ..     162        66        68          Di  sz   93   94  95   Be  97
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                     ..      94        136      131               uE1o3          lnwpods
Terms of trade (1995=t100)                            1 73        48        52    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio
Exports of goods and services                  ..      27        42        44       0
Imports of goods and services                  ..      71         95       93
Resource balance                               ..    -44         -53      -60       5 '
Net income                                     ..      -2          0        -1                              -
Net current transfers                          ..  30    34    22                           '- liii
Current account balance                        ..    -16         -19      -29    t10
Financing items (net)                          ..      19         29       30
Changes in net reserves                        ..       -3        -9       -1   I15 l
Memo:                                                                             _
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       18        53        35
Conversion rate (DEC, iocaWUS$)            239.0    346.3      383.7    437.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                   | Composition of total debt 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          19      167       205       249
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0G: 5
IDA                                          0       26        68        70
Total debt service                             1        2          1         ..          F:49                   8:70
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0
IDA                                          0        0         1         1
Composibon of net resource flows
Official grants                             11       16        15         ..                  _                  c: 3
OfPicial creditors                          14       23         6
Private creditors                           1        2          0
Foreign direct investment                    0        0         2
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0                                 0:95
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0         0        20      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                0        5         6         5      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        0         0         0     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    0        5         6         5
Interest payments                            0        0         0         0
Net transfers                                0        5         6         4
World Bank                                                                                                          10/1/98



Madagascar at a glance                                                                 1011198
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Madagascar    Africa  Income        Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      14.1       614      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    250       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       3.5      309       722                        T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         2.8       2.7       2.1                                      Gross
Labor force I(%)                                       2.8       2.6       2.3
per      -~                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 19911-97)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  75
Urban population (% of total population)               28         32       28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       58         52       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               86        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             32         ..       61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 29         44        71
Illiteracy (%6 of population age 15+)                  54        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  72        75        91             -     Madagascar
Male                                                 73         82      100                   Low-income group
Female                                               70        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratIos'
GDP (US$ billions)                            2.2      3.3       4.0       3.6
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                 8.1      9.0      11.1      12.1                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            15.2     12.1      20.5      22.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    5.8      6.1       5.8       4.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    5.8      6.1       4.9       6.8
Current account balance/GDP                  -3.1     -3.0      -6.2      -5.3     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         0.2      1.5       1.5       1.4        Stic                      Investment
Total debtVGDP                                9.2    92.1      112.3    121.3      Savings
Total debt service/exports                    3.8    47.6       27.8      24.4
Present value of debtVGDP                      ..       ..      79.6
Present value of debtlexports                  ..       ..    347.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     19S6      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -0.1      0.9      2.1       3.7       5.5             --Madagascar
GNP per capita                     -3.4      -1.4      0.2       1.6       2.4                  - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       -4.4     5.5       3.9      -1.5       6.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  33.3     36.8      31.7      31.7      50
Industry                                     16.1     12.9      13.5      13.4
Manufacturing                                ..    10.6        11.5     11.1             92   9    94   95   O    97
Services                                    50.6      50.3      54.8      54.9     -so
Private consumption                         83.0      85.0      87.8      88.4    -100
General government consumpton                11.2      8.8       6.3       7.2                   GDI    {:GDP
Imports of goods and services                17.5     15.0      25.8      30.2
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   1.5      1.9       2.5       2.4    20
Industry                                     -2.3      0.7       2.0       3.5       ..
Manufacturing                                ..      0.1       1.2       0.9
Services                                     -0.6      1.1       2.0       4.5      o
93   94   9e   go   97
Privateconsumption                           -0.5      1.1       1.4       4.7   -1 /
General government consumption                2.1     -1.6      -2.1       8.0
Gross domestic investment                    -1.7     -0.7       9.5       7.7    *20
Imports of goods and services               -4.2       3.0       3.4       7.0                  Expors      Imports
Gross national product                       -0.7      1.4       3.3       4.7
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. i data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Madagascar
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996       1997      Intlation (V.)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          50
Consumer prices                               8.3      12.4      19.8       4.5    40
ImplicitGDPdeflator                           9.9      14.2      18.1       7.3    30
20
Govemment finance                                                                   10'
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o
Current revenue                                 ..    12.7        9.4      11.7             92   93   94   95   98   97
Current budget balance                          ..      1.9      -1.1       0.7             -G DP deflator    CCP1
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -3.5       -8.4       -5.7
TRADE
(SS millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997    | Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..     326        555       531     8
Coffee                                        ..      139        62        37
Otherfood                                     ..      48         20        15      Soo
Manufactures                                  ..       57       348       366            * 
Total imports (cif)                             ..     356        758       799     400            d      liii.
Food                                          ..       52        60        54      200
Fuel and energy                               ..       58       106       105
Capital goods                                 ..       94       164       152       0
Si  92   93   94   95  96  SI
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       97         86        82
Import price index (1995= 100)                 ..       68        100        92              * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      143         85        88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$Smillions)                               1976     1986      1996      1997       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 330      396        821       795      o
Imports of goods and services                 393      490      1,033     1,071
Resource balance                              -63      -95       -212      -276      *2
Netincome                                     -17     -155       -158      -108      -4-
Net current transfers                          13  152   121   196  4- 111111'
Current account balance                       -68      -97       -249      -188     -8
Financing items (net)                          79      163        384       243     -10
Changes in net reserves                       -12      -66       -135       -55          91   92  93  94   95  96  97
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          0       41       241        295
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWAUSS)            239.0    676.3   4,054.6   5,093.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997    F
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          201    3,003      4,498     4,307
IBRD                                         26       31         7          3                  A3  G: 110
IDA                                          68      422      1,147     1,212
Total debt service                             13      211        255       224                                   B 1,212
IBRD                                          2        4          5         4
IDA                                           1        5         17        18
E:1,7   811
Composition of net resource lcows                                                    E            __
Official grants                              22       68        117       179                                      C:73
Official creditors                           18      149         -5       110
Private creditors                             1      -47         -5       -1
Foreign direct investment                     1       14         10        14
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0          0                             D: 1,128
World Bank program
Commitments                                  36      103        60        177     A - BRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                16       95        78        130     B - IDA    D - Other mutilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        3         13        14     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                     16       92        65        116
Interest payFnents                            2        6          9         9
Net transfers                                14       87        55        107
World Bank                                                                                                            10/1/98



Mauritius at a glance                                                               10111/98
Sub-   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan   middle-
Mauritius    Africa  Income       Development dlamond^
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        1.1      614       571                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  3,800       500      4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       4.4      309      2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (56)                                        1.2       2.7       1.5     GNP
Labor force (%)                                        1.7       2.6       1.9       p                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent esUmate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  11
Urban population (% of total population)               41        32        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       72        52        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               15        90        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             15         ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 98        44        79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   17        43        15
Gross primary enrollment ( of school-age population)  107        75       107         -Mauritius
Male                                                107        82         ..              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                              106        67         ..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997   r
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          0.70       1.5       4.3       4.2
Gross domestic investmentVGDP               30.8      21.9      25.1      27.6                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           50.8     60.5       63.9      62.0
Gross domestic savingslGDP                  23.9      28.6      23.9      24.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  25.5     28.6       25.5      25.6
Current account balancelGDP                  -5.1      6.7       0.9      -1.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        0.4       2.0       1.6       2.1       oStic                     Investment
T otal debVGDP                               9.2     45.8       45.0      47.5
Total debt service/exports                    2.2     14.2       6.7       8.0
Present value of debtGDP                       ..       ..      40.8
Present value of debtlexports                 ..        ..      59.1
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.7      5.3       5.4       5.0       5.3               Mauritius
GNP per capita                      0.8      4.3       3.9       4.1        ..               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       4.4      5.9      10.0       4.3       2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%o of GDP)                                 1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of ouitput and investment (%)
Agriculture                                 22.5      15.3       9.6       8.9     20
Industry                                    25.0     31.6       33.0      33.0     la
Manufacturing                              15.2     23.3      24.2      24.7      o lil
Services                                    52.5     53.2       57.4      58.1                                         7 92   93   94    96   97
Private consumption                         62.6     60.9       63.9      64.0    .201
General government consumption              13.5      10.5      12.2      11.9              -GDI              GDP
Imports of goods and services               57.7     53.8       65.2      65.5
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports ()
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 -0.1       0.2       4.1       3.8    15
Industry                                     4.4      6.1        6.0       4.8    10
Manufacturing                               5.9      5.7       6.2       5.6
Services                                     3.0       6.3       5.9       5.3     5           0            
Private consumption                           1.4      5.0       4.0       3.9     o
General government consumption               2.0       4.4       4.8       3.0           92   93                       7
Gross domestic investment                    -1.9      3.5       5.7      16.5    -5
Imports of goods and services                -0.3     4.7        8.6       7.3            -     Exports   -    Iports
Gross national product                       2.2       5.4       5.0       5.2   |
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Mauritius
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domesic prices                              1976     1986       1996     1997      Inflation (b)
(% change)                                                                         i5
Consumer prices                              13.0      1.7       6.5       6.9                  ,
Implicit GDP deflator                        -5.1      8.0       6.1       5.9
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                       22.4      18.8      20.1            92   93   94   95   9S   97
Current budget balance                                 1.6      -1.8      -1.0                 GDP denator  C CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -3.4      -6.9      -5.2
TRADE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   673      1,841     1,701     3,000
Sugar                                               264        447       426
Textiles                                      .        ..        7         6
Manufactures                                        296        983       964     2,000
Total imports (cilt)                                  683      2,278     2,224
Food                                                 88        368       375     1,000
Fuel and energy                                      52        179       172
Capital goods                                        118       520       508        o
Export price index (1995=100)                          81       107        98            Si  92  93  94  9s  98  97
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                             55       109       101                HExports      oImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    148         98        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (/)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                357      885      2,749     2,586     2 T
Imports of goods and services                406      788      2,803     2,732
Resource balance                             -48       97        -54     -146      o   -       _
Net income                                     6      -49        -28       -19    -2--
Netcurrenttransfers                                    49       121       118
Current account balance                      -36       98        38       -47
Financing items (net)                        -39      -77         9        90
Changes in net reserves                       75      -21        -48      -43      8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..    151        919       726
Conversion rate (DEC, localAUS$)             6.7      13.5      17.9      20.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          65      671      1,936     1,982
IBRD                                        10      148       124       111                        A-ill
IDA                                         11       20        16        15            G: 496              15
Total debt service                             8      131       198       223
IBRD                                         1       19        30        29
IDA                                          0        0         1         133
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              7       25        13        20
Official creditors                           9       15         -9        6
Private creditors                           -2       -5        40       -31
Foreign direct investment                    3        8        37        53
Portfolio equity                             0        0        34         0
F:941
World Bank program
Commitments                                  4       30         7         0     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                5       11        14        17      8 - IDA    D - Other multlateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         1        8        21        21     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    5        4         -7       -4
Interest payments                            1       12         9         8
Net transfers                                4       -8        -17      -12
World Bank                                                                                                          10/1/98



Seychelles at a glance                                                            10/1/98
Sub-   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Saharan   middle-
Seychelles    Africa  income      Development dlamond
1997
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                      0.08      614       571                 Ufe expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 6,880      500     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    0.54      309      2,584
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population ()                                       1.6       2.7       15      G
Labor force (%)                                                2.6       1.9     GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)             56        32        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     71        52        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              17       90        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            6                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                97        44       79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                 21        43        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  96      75       107        -Seychelles
Male                                                         82                        Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                       67
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                           ..    0.21       0.51      0.54
Gross domestc investment/GDP                        22.8      50.9      36.0                    T
Exports of goods and services/GDP                   63.0      62.4     67.7                     rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          29.9      39.6      22.3
Gross nabonal savingslGDP                           33.5      40.1      23.3
Current account balance/GDP                         20.1     -10.8    -12.7      D s               \\
Interest payments/GDP                                1.8       0.9       09      Domesta c                  Investment
Total debtlGDP                                      71.0      29.1      2518     Savigs
Total debt service/exports                           7.6       4.7       3.1
Present value of debt/GDP                                     23.9
Present value of debtlexports                                 37.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.7      4.5      4.7       4.3       3.2             Seychelles
GNP per capita                     0.3      3.5      3.7       3.3       1.4              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services               4.9    25.5        8.0       3.7  1,
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%/6 of GDP)                               1976    1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                          6.0       4.1       4.1    100
Industry                                            17.9      23.1     23.3      so                          A
Manufacturing                                      9.3      12.8      13.1 \
Services                                            76.1      72.8     72.6       0
Private consumption                                 31.3      31.3     49.8     .l0    9
General government consumption                      38.8      29.1      27.9                   GDI   -KG-GDP
Imports of goods and services                       55.9      73.8     81.4
(average annual growth)                 1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                -2.2    -1.6        1.0       0.6    40
Industry                                    3.3      9.9       9.8     20.9
Manufacturing                              2.6     8.6       13.8     28.4    20
Services                                    0.4      3.5       3.3     -1.0
Private consumption                                 13.5     -14.0      48.4     0                           9/   /7
General government consumption                       3.0       2.0       1.3                 g 9             9s   97
Gross domestic investment                           10.1      75.8    -26.4    20
Imports of goods and services                 .     11.9      26.6      15.6                 Exp ts
Gross national product                      1.1      5.0       5.6       5.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Seychelles
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Inflatlon (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                               14.9       0.2      -1.1       0.6      4
Implicit GDP deflator                                    5.8      -0.4       2.9      2
Government finance                                                                    0
(5 of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   -2
Current revenue                                        44.0       38.8      41.5    -4
Current budget balance                                   1.6      -7.6       -5.7                   GDPdeflator  -CPI
Overall surplusideficit                                -15.0     -12.0      -13.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1976      1986       1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                       5        105        65      400
Copra                                                    1         3          4
Fish                                           ''                  0          0     3o0
Manufactures                                    ,                 34        57                       _*
Total imports (cif)                                     105        379       350      200 -*
Food                                                   20         63        88      100-        *    *
Fuel and energy                                         18        43         50
Capital goods                                          29        166        75        o     -      _     __
Export price index (1995=100)                   60       1 3        99       101           o     2 9        4 9       6 9
Import price index (1995=100)                  120      103         96        98                a Exqorts     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       50       13        103       103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (X)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                        .      131        317       365       0
Imports of goods and services                           116        375       439       o
Resource balance                                         15        -58       -74
Net income                                               -9        -13        -9  t*
Net current transfers                                    36    16    15    11*11
Current account balance                                  42        -55       -68     -10
Financing items (net)                                   -40         51        74
Changes in net reserves                                  -2          4        -5    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                   86         22        26
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)               7.4       6.2       5.0       5.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millIons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             1      148        148       139
IBRD                                           0        4          4         4 148  144
IDA                                           0         0          0         0
Total debtservice                                0       12         15        11
IBRD                                           0        0          1         1
IDA                                            0        0          0         0         F: 25      ,:.D: 44
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                                5        8          7         8
Official creditors                             0       15          6         8
Private creditors                              0       12         -4        -3
Foreign direct investment                     6        14         30        49
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0                     E: 52
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0          0         0     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        1          0         0     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0          1         1     c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0         1         -1         0
Interest paYments                             0         0          0         0
Net transfers                                 0         1         -1        -1
World Bank                                                                                                              1011198



THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:   September 24, 1998
TO: Indian Ocean Commission anid Delegates from Beneficiary Governments
FROM:   Elizabeth Adu, Principal Coullsel
XTENSION:   81758
SUBJECT:   GEF: Western Indian Ocean Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Action Memo
This memorandum summarizes the actions to be taken by the Indian Ocean
Commission (the recipient) and the Federal Republic of Comoros, the Republic of Madagascar,
Republic of Mauritius and Republic of the Seychelles (the Governments), before: (a) the GEF
Trust Fund Grant for the above-mentioned Project may be aipproved by the Executive Directors;
and (b) the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement may be signed; and (c) the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Agreement may be declared effective.
1. Actions to be taken throucih si2ning:
(a) Before presentation ot the Grant to the E.xecutive Directors, the Bank would wish to receive:
(i) from the Recipient a letter stating that the draft GEF T'rust Fund Grant
Agreement, as negotiated, has been approved by the Recipient;
(ii) fromll thle Governmclents, thc addenidumii to l.etter of'Commiiiiitment duly signed by
the respective Minister responsible for the Environmiient;
(iii) from the Recipient a letter stating the Steering Committee has been establishled;
(iv) from Reunion, the Intemational Maritime Organization and the International
Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association, expressing their
support for the Plroject and their willingness to assist with it implementation.
(b)  Before signing the legal documents, the Bank must receive from the Recipient (if the
Secretary General of the IOC-Ls..go. gping to sign the GEF T'rust Fund Grant Agreement), a letter
appointing a representative tia.:xecute and deliver the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and
related documents for the above-mentioned GEF Trust Funrd Grant.
2.   Actions Prece(dent to Effectiveness:
Pursuant to Section 7.01 ot the GEF Trust Funid Grant Agreement ,the following
event is specified as an additional condition to the effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Agreement within the meaning of Section l2.0( 1 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the
Project Implementation Plan, in form and substance accep:able to the 13ank, has been adopted by
the Recipient.
cc: Messrs./NMmies. A. Ghzala, P, be Naurois, A. Barra.



ANNEX I
List of participants
Indian Occan Commission Delcation
tr. C. F1. Mohamed Secretary Gencral
Mr. R. PT-wag. Regional Project Coordinator
[BRD 1)c1cgation
Vr. A. (1ihi.ah, Team Leader
Mrs. E. Adiu, Principal Counsel
Mr. P. dc Nau-ois, Senior Financial Analvst
.\Mrs. A. Barra. Team Assistant
Beneficiary COLntries Representatives. as observers
Comoros:
Mr. A. Ahdou. Secretary General, Ministry of Production. Fisheries. Environrimcnt and Craft
Madagascar:
Mr. A. Ratovoson, Secretary Gencral, Ministry of Eiivoirollucl,
Nlauritius:
Mr. T. S. Ranivead, Acting Director, Dept. of Environment- Vhrititrv ot Local
Governmcnt and Environment
Mr. C. Chautoori, Environment Officer. Dept. of Environment. Miniiistrv of LTocal
Government and Fnviroriment
Seychelles:
Major I. Rosette, Adjutant, Seyvclles Coast Guarcl



Global Environmental Facility (GEF/World Bank as lmplcmenting Agency
Western Indian Ocean Islands Oil Spill Contingency Planning Project
Agreed Minutes of Negotiatiorns
1. Negotiations for a proposed GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount of SDR 2,376,100
(Western Indian Ocean Islands Oil Spill ('nntingenCy Planning Project) were held in
Mauritius from September 23 to 25, 1998 betwcen World Bank as an Implementingi
Agency  of the GEF  Tnist Fund  and  the  Indian  Ocean  Commission  (JOC).
Represcntatives from the Beneficiary Countries attended as Observers. A list of
participants is attached (Annex 1). The revised draf Gl;F Trust Fuin(d GTrant Agrccment
rcflects the agreements reached diuring negotiations. These Agreed Minutes record the
tmderstandings reached during negotiations.
2. Condition of negotiations.
The only condition of negotiations, the preparation of the Project lmplerncntation Plan
(PIP), was fulfilled. The Bank delegation provided comments on the PIP to thc RegionlM
Projcct Coordinator.
3. Project costs and financing.
The Project costs and financing plan was reviewe(l. [hc agrecd final project costs
(inlcludinig contingencies) is US$ 4.636 million, of which tlie GEF Trust Fund Graot is
UJS$ 3.152 million (exchange rate as of August 31,1 998: US$ 1.32649 = 1.00 SDR).
The final PAD will reflect the detailed costs and thc financing plan.
4. Taxes and Duties exemption.
The Bank Delegation explained that the proceeds of thc G(ElE Trust Fund Grant will oniv
financc thc cxpenditures under the Project excluding taxes and duties. Should there he
any taxes or duties imposed in any of the couintrics, thesc wotild he bome by the said
Reneticiary C'ountry.
Tlle Secretary General of IOC statethat all JOC projects are cxempt from taxes and
duties by virtue of its dip1omatklstaitus
5. Action Plan for Institutional and Financial Sustainability.
Thc draft Action Plans prepared by the Indian Occan (Commissionl (TOC) were reviewed.
It was agreed that thesc Action Plans will hc finalized lo: (il reflect a firm commitment
by the 13eneficiary Countries to the principlcs of institutional and finanicial sustainability;
(ii) accept, as indicative ligures, the estimates of the nLnning costs (after Project
completion) as provided by the Consultants; (ii) incliude the revision and reassessment of
the Action Plans (on the basis of more accurate figures) in the mid-term review: and (iv)
have the Action Plans fully implemented prior to the closing date of thle Grant (June 30,
2003).



6. WVritten cnmmitments from the BeneficiarY Countries.
Thc Bank Delegation rcceived letters of commitment provi.ded bhv Coinoros. Madagascar
and Seychelles. It was agreed that additional leticrs. to hc signed by the respcctive
Ministers of Environment of thcse countries, woul(d he provided prior to Board
Presentation. reflecting the Beneficiary Countrics' commlitment to: (i? a(opt anrd
implemint the National Continlgency Plans; (ii) initiatc. bv luly 1999, the process
necessary to ratify the relevant international conventions (Cl C92, Fund 92 and OPRC
90); and (iii) implement thc recomiiienidations of the Study on Institutional and Financial
Sustainahilith. These additional lettcrs slhould inIcludle as Annex the lInstitutional and
Financial Sustainability Action Plans as defined above. It was also agreed that Mauritius-
will submit its written comnimitment accorcling to the revisedl dralf letter provided by the
Banlk Delegation, and to be signed by the Minister of Finance.
7. Disclosure ofInformation.
The IOC  and Representatives from  the Reneficiarv Countries cleared the Project
Documents for public release in accordance with Bank poiiy.
8. Next steps.
The TOC and Bank Delegations agreed on the following
(a)   Prior to Board presentation: (i) the Steering Committee established; (ii) the
ad{ditional letters described in paragraph 6 abovc and the letter of commitment from
Mauritius. scnt to the Bank; and (iii) written commitnients from Reunion, IPIECA and
IMO, exprcssing their support for the Project and ilheir willingness to assist with its
implementation. sent to the Bank (the wnrtten commitment of South Africa has been
transmitted to the Bank Delegation).
(b)  Pri.or to effectiveness: a letter fr-om IOC infoming the liank of adoption of
the PIP, in forrn and substance acceptable to thc Bank.
9. Target dates.
If all of the above conditions arc fqlfilt2c it is expected that B3oard presentation will take
place by November 15, 1998 afiiectivencss by mid-December 1998. Siging of the
(irant Agreement could take placc in Washinigton or in one of the 1Beneficiary Countries
if the travel plans nf the Country Director for Indian Ocean Islandsl permit.
For the Indian Ocean Commission Dcicgation             For the IRRD Delegation
Caabi Elyachroutu Mohamed                        Mr. Abdelioula Ghzala
Secretary General                                      leam Leader
Mauritius. September 25, 1998



