Report No. PID7840
Project Name                     Africa Region-Indian Ocean Oil Spill...
Contingency Planning Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       3AGE36037
Recipients                       Government of Comoros
Government of Madagascar
Government of Mauritius
Government of Seychelles
Implementing Agency              The Indian Ocean Commission Secretariat
Q4, Sir Guy Forget Avenue
Quatre Bornes, Mauritius
Telephone: (230) 425-9564
Fax: (230) 425-1209
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                December 1, 1998
Board Date                       December 1, 1998
Countries' Backgrounds
1.      Comoros.  The Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is an archipelago
of three islands in the Indian Ocean, with a fairly homogenous population of
around 498,000 and a GNP per capita estimated in 1996 at US$460. The economy
is predominantly rural and highly dependent on external assistance, at an
annual average of about US$118 per capita over 1989-1993. Since independence
in 1975, the Comoros economy has undergone considerable change. Following a
period of growth generated by externally-financed infrastructure projects,
real GDP growth slowed significantly from an annual average of 4.3 percent in
1981-85 to 0.8 percent over 1991-95, despite the implementation of an
adjustment program over the latter period during which considerable progress
was made in liberalizing imports, removing price controls and improving the
environment for private sector development. The poor economic performance
arises from the country's remaining development constraints, which include a
small export base, weak institutional capacity exacerbated by poor economic
management, inadequate infrastructure and an unfavorable private sector
environment. These constraints combine to hinder development of new growth
areas, such as tourism, and contribute to a poor quality of life for the
country's inhabitants.
2.      Madagascar.   Madagascar, the fourth largest island in the world, has a
population of 14.8 million (1995), growing at a rate of 3.8 percent per year.
With a 1996 per capita annual GNP of US$240, Madagascar is among the poorest
countries in the world. Following a series of untenable, large, public-sector
investments in the 1970s, the Government of Madagascar embarked on a program
of stabilization and structural adjustment in the 1980s. The Government is
currently pursuing broader reforms to improve the allocation and use of public
resources, with an accompanying program of investments designed to: (a) create



an attractive environment for increased private sector investment in the
Madagascar through, among other things, provision of well-maintained
infrastructure; (b) alleviate poverty; and (c) reduce the rate of
environmental degradation to improve quality of life and build a basis for
ecotourism.
3.      Mauritius.  Mauritius is one of Africa's success stories.    A well-
educated population of around 1 million and skilled labor force enabled
Mauritius to diversify its economy in the 1970s from its sole reliance on
sugar production, to include tourism and light manufacturing. Development of
tax-free export processing zones and tourist facilities boosted the Mauritian
economy, which grew at an average annual rate of 6 percent during the 1980s.
By 1996, per capita income had reached US$3,700 per annum. The Government
supports environmental protection as a means of promoting the tourism
industry.
4.      Seychelles. With a population of 80,000, Seychelles has enjoyed strong
economic growth over the past two decades, with per capita GNP rising from
US$1,000 in 1976 to US$6,960 in 1996. However, the economy is fragile owing
to heavy dependence on tourism and fisheries and limited scope for
diversification of production and exports. Tourism accounts for approximately
20 percent of GDP and brings in around 60 percent of foreign exchange
earnings. The country is vulnerable to external shocks, as it imports over 90
percent of its production inputs and consumption goods. The country's
economic and financial performance has faltered since 1991, when the Gulf War
accentuated the fragility of the economy and exposed the limitations of past
policies of heavy state intervention. The Government is reorienting its
overall economic strategy with a view to increasing privatization and
tightening public expenditures, with a focus on restoring the competitiveness
of the tourism industry by modernizing infrastructure and protecting the
environmental quality of the archipelago. Seychelles is an active participant
in international environmental conventions and programs and is home to two
World Heritage sites (Aldabra Atoll and Valee de Mai Nature Reserve).
Sector Background
5.      The west Indian Ocean is one of the most important and widely-used oil
shipping routes in the world. It is estimated that 350 million tons of crude
oil, representing over 30 percent of world petroleum production, pass near or
through the coastal waters of the Indian Ocean island states each year, in
transit to North America, Europe and Asia. Thus more than 5,000 tanker
voyages per year take place through the sensitive coastal waters of Comoros
and Madagascar, and pass near the World Heritage Site of Aldabra Atoll of
Seychelles. In the last ten years, the amount of oil transported through the
region has risen by over 60 percent. Most of the oil is transported on about
700 very large crude carriers (250,000 tonnes and over) and 4,000 medium-sized
tankers (average of 60,000 tons). These tankers usually pass through the
Mozambique Channel and between the islands of Grand Comoros and Aldabra.
Smaller tankers pass to the east of Madagascar from ports in Southeast Asia.
On average, more than 20 large oil tankers are in transit through the coastal
waters of the island states every day. A maritime accident involving the
discharge of large quantities of oil would have a disastrous impact on the
fragile and sensitive natural resources of the concerned countries, and on
their economies, which are not sufficiently diversified to survive such an
incident without serious damage.
- 2-



6.      The waters surrounding the island countries of the West Indian Ocean are
ecologically rich. Marine and coastal ecosystems include extensive coral
reefs that harbor several unique and endangered species of flora and fauna,
such as the coelacanth. Sea turtles, dugons, and many species of sea birds
also thrive in the region.
7.      While weather during much of the year is generally good, with calm seas
and good visibility, weather patterns during the cyclone season (December
through April) are quite unpredictable, creating risks of shipping accidents
and discharge of marine pollutants. There are few navigational hazards
through the region, and to date there have been few recorded shipping
accidents in the region. However, the large numbers of tankers, and the great
size and carrying capacity of the vessels involved, create the risk that a
very large spill occurs in the Mozambique Channel. Local deliveries of
petroleum products also involve some risk of environmental damage, which is
exacerbated by the lack of oil spill response capacity, particularly in
Madagascar and Comoros.
8.      The region as a whole lacks legislation, equipment and a plan to
confront an oil spill emergency, although Seychelles, Mauritius and Reunion
have ratified some international conventions and have developed national oil
spill contingency plans, which are still untested. Reunion has developed a
national oil spill response plan, and has asked to participate in the proposed
GEF operation, with French funding, to share its expertise with the other
islands and to take part in the regional contingency plan. Currently,
regional oil spill response capacity resides only in South Africa and the
International Response Center. However, this cannot substitute for national
and regional response capacity. There is potential for effective local action
to respond to Tier 1 and 2 spills, and vital time would be lost without this
capacity. In addition, Reunion and the government and other organizations of
South Africa, (such as the Strategic Fuel Fund (SFF) and the Maritime and
Safety Authority of South Africa) are supporting this project by providing
valuable expertise in training, joint exercises, sensitivity mapping,
preparing national response plans, and creating a mechanism to coordinate
regional action to respond to Tier 3 spills.
9.      Each of the governments of the Indian Ocean islands share common
aspirations to develop the ecotourism potential of their respective countries.
In each country, the fishing industry contributes to GDP. Economic
development potential relies largely on protection of their shared resource,
the Indian Ocean. Each of the countries has prepared a national environmental
action plan (NEAP) or environmental management plan (EMP), which emphasize the
following relevant priorities:
Comoros: Conservation of marine and coastal ecosystems and development of
national environmental institutional and policy frameworks (NEAP 1994)
Madagascar: Preservation of Madagascar's rich biodiversity and unique
ecosystems as a basis for the development of tourism (NEAP 1988)
Mauritius: Development of institutional capacity and adoption of regulatory
framework for environmental management; protection of Mauritius' unique
biodiversity and coastal ecosystems (NEAP 1990)
Seychelles: Adoption of regional environmental cooperative arrangements,
particularly to guard against overfishing; development of baseline studies and
scientific information on marine and coastal ecosystems; and development
national preparedness and capacity to address oil spills (EMP 1990).
- 3-



Project Objectives
10.     Global environment objective.   The project aims to limit the
contamination of international waters by: (a) addressing the threat of oil
spills in the Indian Ocean subregion; (b) involving the private sector in
utilizing technological advances to resolve transboundary concerns associated
with such a threat; and (c) developing a financing mechanism to sustain the
national and regional oil spill capacity that the project will create.
11.     Development objectives.   The project is intended to protect the
environmental integrity of the coastal and marine ecosystems of a large,
biologically rich and relatively pristine part of the western Indian Ocean.
The project will achieve this by helping the small island states of Comoros,
Mauritius, Madagascar, and Seychelles comply with the International Convention
on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation (OPRC), which requires
states to develop and maintain adequate capacity to respond to oil pollution
emergencies. Specific project objectives are to: (a) establish appropriate
legal and institutional frameworks to ensure compliance with relevant
international conventions; (b) develop national and regional contingency
planning processes; (c) set up appropriate national and regional oil spill
response capacity; (d) establish sustainable financial and institutional
agreements and synergy through regional cooperation arrangements (including
South Africa and Reunion). These objectives will be achieved by building
awareness and preparedness at national levels, and establishing and organizing
oil spill response capacity at national and regional levels. The project
builds upon and complements the institutional framework provided by the
Nairobi Convention, by recognizing the Indian Ocean Commission as the
executing and implementing agency of the project.
Project Description
12.     The proposed project addresses all of the oil-spill related issues
specified above. Each country will develop national institutional, physical
and strategic capacity to respond to oil spills to protect national coastal
and surrounding marine environments in the interest of conserving globally
important biodiversity, protecting fisheries and promoting ecotourism. The
project will protect the shared Indian Ocean resources by establishing
regional agreements and strategies to respond to oil spill accidents that
transcend national borders. The project will facilitate regional cooperation
and coordination of the island nations, including (a) signing of international
conventions and treaties (CLC92, FUND92, OPRC90,), (b) definition of a
regional oil spill response plan, (c) coordination of national legislation,
(d) ensuring adequate oil spill response capacity, and (e) establishing a
mechanism for regional coordination. In order to ensure adequate oil spill
response capacity, the project places primary emphasis on establishing
financial sustainability for the oil spill response system at both national
and regional levels, and on building cooperation between concerned national
governments and the local and international oil shipping industries. This
cooperation would mobilize technologies and procedures to address oil spill
emergencies that have been developed by the oil industry.
13.     Project financing.   The project is estimated to cost US$4.636 million,
of which the GEF grant would finance US$3.152 million, consisting mainly of
regional project activities. Beneficiary governments have committed to
financing US$724,900, which would be used mainly for national project
- 4 -



components. Several donors are also contributing in-kind resources to the
project. South Africa will provide services valued at US$166,400, Reunion
will commit US$168,000, the International Maritime Organization will spend
US$76,800, the Indian Ocean Commission will provide US$43,000, and the oil
industry will provide US$305,600, for a total of US$759,800.
14.     Project implementation.   The project management unit established at the
regional level under the Indian Ocean Commission Secretariat and headed by a
regional coordinator will be responsible for overall project coordination and
implementation. A project implementation coordinator within the ministry of
environment for each country will coordinate the national components of the
project. The project management unit and the project implementation
coordinator will benefit from technical assistance for project management and
monitoring and technical capacity in oil spill response management. A
steering committee, chaired by the IOC and comprising senior officials
responsible for environment for each participating country, will ensure
national and regional interagency coordination and cooperation among all
donors.
15.     Project sustainability.   Project sustainability will rest on the overall
commitment of the Indian Ocean Commission countries and the oil industry to
protect the environment against oil spill pollution. Seychelles will host and
permanently finance the regional oil spill response coordination center.
During the course of project implementation, the center will acquire the
skills needed to assume the coordination function. After completion of the
project, the center will (a) be the custodian of the regional oil spill
response plan; (b) design and implement regular regional exercises; (c) assist
countries with the further development of their national contingency plans
when requested; (d) organize and hold workshops to assist with the development
of national and regional oil spill response capacity; and (e) take an
auditor's role in monitoring regular national and regional exercises and
maintenance procedures, and publish an annual report on its findings.
16.     Following project completion, the participating island states will incur
expenses for annual training and exercises, maintenance, and renewal of
equipment as required. Madagascar has proposed financing these expenses
through a port levy, and Comoros will establish a special fund financed by a
levy on oil imports. Seychelles and Mauritius will meet these expenses
through their general budgets. The institutional and financial sustainability
action plans for each country, agreed with the Bank during negotiations,
detail the indicative amount each country will be expected to contribute each
year, the source of funds, and arrangements for administering the funds. The
action plans will be reviewed and reassessed during the mid-term review and
are expected to be fully implemented prior to the completion date (December
31, 2002).
17.     Lessons learned.   Lessons from the Indian Ocean Commission/European
Union Regional Environmental Program indicate there is a need for (a)
mechanisms to facilitate coordination between the Indian Ocean states,
particularly in the area of environmental legislation; (b) a flexible and
responsive project management structure; and (c) involvement of private sector
actors and other local sources of expertise. Lessons from World Bank projects
in the area show (a) the need for ensuring a minimum level of participation
from all countries, especially in the areas of financial sustainability,
training and infrastructure maintenance; (b) the benefits of mobilizing and
- 5 -



involving private sector expertise; and (c) the need for mechanisms to
facilitate regional interaction. The proposed project therefore: (a) builds
on the regional coordination and cooperation built by the Indian Ocean
Commission, while ensuring responsiveness through an autonomous project
coordinator within the Commission; (b) sets minimum participation benchmarks
for each of the countries defined in national and regional contingency plans;
(c) incorporates expertise from the private sector and other countries in the
region; and (d) ensures regional coordination and interaction though the
regional contingency plans, training and joint exercises.
18.     Environmental aspects.   The project focuses mainly on oil spill
contingency planning, building legislative and institutional frameworks,
strengthening national and regional human resource capacity to address oil
spill accidents, and creating sustainable institutional and financing
mechanisms to maintain the system. It is expected to have a positive impact
on the environment. The small physical component consists of the purchase of
oil spill response equipment, and will not have any negative effects on the
environment. The project is Environmental Assessment Category is C.
19.     Project objective category.   Environmentally sustainable development is
the primary project objective.
Contact Points:
Abdelmoula Ghzala
Task Manager
(202) 473-4550
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 11, 1999.
- 6 -



