                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR1756



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (TF-52081 TF-52452)



                                       ON A

                      MULTI-DONOR TRUST FUND GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT N US$ 183.9 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                       FOR A

            MICROFINANCE FOR POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT



                                 December 26, 2012




Financial and Private Sector Development
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective December 26, 2012)

                   Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)
                       USD 1.00 = AFN 51.21

                          FISCAL YEAR
                         March 21-March 20


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFN     Afghanis
AFMIS   Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
ANDS    Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ARTF    Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CAR     Capital adequacy ratio
CGAP    Consultative Group to Assist the Poor
DFID    Department for International Development
GoA     Government of Afghanistan
IDA     International Development Association
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
MRRD    Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development
MIS     Management Information System
MISFA   Microfinance Investment Support Facility Afghanistan
MoF     Ministry of Finance
NSP     National Solidarity Program
PAR     Portfolio at risk
PDO     Project Development Objective
ROA     Return on assets
TTL     Task team leader




                    Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
                  Country Director: Robert J. Saum
                   Sector Manager: Ivan Rossignol
              Project Team Leader: Henry Bagazonzya
                 ICR Team Leader: Leyla Castillo
                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
                          Microfinance for Poverty Reduction Project



                                                  CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 24
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 30
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 30
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 34
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 36
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 37
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49
Map of Afghanistan………………………………………………………………........51
       A. Basic Information (some fields are pre-populated by the system)
Country: Afghanistan                            Project name: ARTF-Microfinance

Project ID: P091264                             L/C/TF Number(s): TF-52081, TF-52452

ICR Date: Dec 26, 2012                          ICR Type: Core ICR

Lending Instrument: SIL                         Borrower: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan

Original total commitment: USD 120.30 M         Disbursed amount: USD 168.94 M

Environmental category: B-Partial Assessment

Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Finance/MISFA

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


       B. Key Dates (all fields are pre-populated by the system)
     Process                Date                Process          Original Date         Revised/Actual
                                                                                          Date(s)
Concept review:    03/31/2005           Effectiveness:         06/04/2003
Appraisal:                              Restructuring(s):      n/a
Approval:          07/10/2003           Mid-term Review:                             05/15/2009
                                        Closing:               09/30/2005            06/30/2010

      C. Ratings Summary (the system automatically displays entries in other relevant
      sections)
   C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
   Outcome:                                      Moderately satisfactory
   Risk to Development Outcome:                  Significant
   Bank Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
   Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory

   C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
   Bank               Ratings                    Borrower                  Ratings
   Quality at
                      Satisfactory               Government:               Satisfactory
   Entry:
   Quality of                                    Implementing
                      Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
   Supervision:                                  Agency/Agencies:
   Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
                      Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
   Performance:                                  Performance:
C.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
(all fields are pre-populated by the system)
                                                                     QAG Assessments
          Implementation Ratings               Rating                                             Rating
                                                                        (if any)
Potential Prob. Project at any time(Yes/No):   No             Quality at Entry (QEA):             None
Problem Project at any time(Yes/No):           No             Quality of Supervision (QSA):       None
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:      Moderately
                                               Satisfactory

 D. Sector and Theme Codes There can be a maximum of five Sector Codes (that has
 more than zero percent) and five Theme Codes (of which up to two are “Primary?).
        (the original column is pre-populated by the system—the same as in SAP/AUS)
                                                                           Original           Actual
 Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 1. Micro- and SME finance                                                  100
                                                                      Original Priority   Actual Priority
 Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
 1. Other financial and private sector development                           100



E. Bank Staff (some fields are pre-populated by the system)
        Positions                            At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel Guerrero                           Praful Patel
Country Director:          Robert J. Saum                            Alastair McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Ivan Rossignol                            Simon C. Bell
Project Team Leader:       Henry K Bagazonzya                        Mudassir Khan
ICR Team Leader:           Leyla Castillo
ICR Primary Author:        Leyla Castillo

 F. Results Framework Analysis

 Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The objective of the project is to (i) provide poor and low income people, particularly
 women, with access to credit and financial services; and thereby (ii) enable them to: (A)
 take advantage of business and other income generating opportunities, (B) raise their
 income levels and develop skills, and (C) meet emergency needs and reduce their
 vulnerability and build assets.

 Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
 authority)
 The objective of the project is to (i) help the population of the Recipient’s territory to (A)
 improve their livelihoods, (B) make the transition from dependence on humanitarian
 assistance to economic independence, and (C) empower them to build on their
 entrepreneurial spirit and skills; (ii) provide to low-income people, through existing
microfinance facilities, a range of financial services such as (A) income-generating and
enterprise loans, (B) saving services, and (C) consumer loans; and (iii) establish the
foundations of a strong and sustainable microfinance sector.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                         Revised Target
                                                   Original Target       Values                Actual Values
Intermediate                                       Values                (as approved by       Achieved
                         Baseline Value
Outcome Indicator                                  (from approval        original              at Completion or
                                                   documents)            approving             Target Years
                                                                         authority)
PDO Indicator 1:         Number of active clients of MFIs
                         No baseline at project
Value
                         design (YR 2003)
(quantitative or                                         1,000,000             680,000               435,442
                         Baseline established in
Qualitative)
                         2006: 300,000
Date achieved            12/31/2006                 06/30/2010            06/30/2010           05/26/2010
Comments (incl. %        The target was not achieved due to the consolidation and divestiture process in the MFI
achievement)             sector, which led to the shortfall as of 26-May-2010.
                         Number/% of Microfinance service providers registered as Afghan companies and
PDO Indicator 2:
                         operating under relevant Afghan laws and supervision
Value
(quantitative or                  0/0%                  15/100%                                     16/100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   12/31/2006             12/31/ 2009                                   12/31/2008
Comments (incl. %        Target was achieved successfully. In 2008, the sector had already 15 MFIs registered as
achievement)             local limited liability companies, and one additional was in registration process.
PDO Indicator 3:         Percent of loan portfolio outstanding that is accounted for by MFPs with OSS>100%.
Value (quantitative or
Qualitative)                      0%                      87%                                         None

Date achieved            12/31/2006                 06/30/2010                                 05/26/2010
Comments (incl. %        The target was not achieved by project closing date due to consolidation and the
achievement)             divestiture process in the sector.
PDO Indicator 4:         Percentage of active clients who are women: 60% (target was 65% for June 2010)
Value (quantitative or
                                  70%                     65%                                         60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2006                 06/30/2010                                 05/26/2010
Comments (incl. %        Consolidation and focus on individual lending meant a slight decline in the indicator as
achievement)             of 26-May-2010.
PDO Indicator 5:         Increase in amount and percentage of loan portfolio outstanding relative to base year
Value (quantitative or   65 mn                      182 mn                                     168 mn/157% of
Qualitative)                                                                                   base
Date achieved            12/31/2006                 06/30/2010                                 05/26/2010
Comments (incl. %        Target was not achieved due to the consolidation process in the sector. By project closing
achievement)             date, the portfolio outstanding had increased 157% compared to its value of 2006.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                          Revised Target
                                                   Original Target        Values                 Actual Values
Intermediate                                       Values                 (as approved by        Achieved
                         Baseline Value
Outcome Indicator                                  (from approval         original               at Completion or
                                                   documents)             approving              Target Years
                                                                          authority)
Indicator 1:             Number / %of MFIs with an OSS (operational self-sufficiency ratio) of more than 100%
Value
                         3 MFIs or 20% of
(quantitative or                                           87%                                          None
                         MFIs
Qualitative)
Date achieved            12/31/2006              06/30/2010                                     05/26/2010
Comments (incl. %        Due to the ongoing consolidation process in the sector, by project closing date none of
achievement)             the MFIs had achieved OSS.
Indicator 2:             Number/% of MFPs with PAR 30 less than 5%.
Value
(quantitative or                  85%                      85%                                          27%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                  12/31/2006              12/31/ 2010                                     05/26/2010
Comments (incl. %        The target was not achieved as a result of the crisis that affected the sector in 2008.
achievement)             Nonetheless, by project closing date, MISFA had started a cleanup process in the
                         portfolio of most MFIs which was showing positive results.
Indicator 3:             Number of provinces in which MFPs are providing services
Value (quantitative or
Qualitative)                       21                       32                                           26

Date achieved            12/31/2006               06/30/2010                                 05/26/2012
Comments (incl. %        Due to security problems, MFIs had to close branches and stop operating in locations
achievement)             that were considered unsafe.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                                             Actual
 No.      Date ISR Archived                  DO                         IP               Disbursements
                                                                                         (USD millions)
   1           06/13/2008               Satisfactory              Satisfactory               124.75
   2           12/22/2008               Satisfactory              Satisfactory               135.14
   3           06/19/2009               Satisfactory              Satisfactory               164.86
                                        Moderately
   4           01/20/2010                                         Satisfactory                164.86
                                        Satisfactory
                                        Moderately                Moderately
   5           06/25/2010                                                                     168.94
                                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.     Country and Sector Background: The design of the project and its first phase of
implementation were carried out in an environment of great hope and expectations by
donors and international development agencies about the reconstruction of conflict-
affected Afghanistan. The project was part of an integrated approach to the
reconstruction efforts, with the Bank investing in other areas including education,
community development, public works, infrastructure, and reconstruction. All of these
investments aimed at supporting the uplifting of the Afghan population.

2.     In 2003 there was a dire need to deal with urban and rural poverty in Afghanistan.
War had devastated the country—people had been displaced, trade and commerce had
been severely damaged and intermittent clampdowns on opium production and drought
conditions had resulted in substantial decline in agricultural production. Conditions were
not conducive for investment: infrastructure facilities were poor; social capital was
scarce; politically, the situation was still fragile, with continued outbreaks of fighting
between rival factions in some parts of the country; the monetary system was unstable
and the banking system virtually non-existent.

3.     There was a large unmet demand for formal financial services, especially for poor
people and microenterprises. The informal sector was the main source of livelihoods for
the majority of people. There were two main constraints. First, lack of capital was a key
constraint to the growth of micro and small businesses. Second, since the banking
system had collapsed during the war, and there were no large scale NGOs or credit
cooperatives providing credit, the majority of the people had to rely on a widespread
informal financial system—rural indebtedness was a particularly serious problem in
poppy growing areas. There were no commercial banks in operation and it was clear that
it would take some time before they could be established and in a position to serve the
vast majority of the population. Formal, microfinance services were, therefore,
considered necessary. With a total population of 26 million, the potential market was
estimated to be at least one million households.

The development of a strong microfinance sector was thought to play a key role in the
strategy to improve the livelihoods of poor and low income households in the country, as
it would provide financial services that they could use to invest in enterprise activities,
meet emergency needs, reduce vulnerability, and build assets. Among the poor and low
income households, there were three groups in the income spectrum with different
characteristics, for which it was considered necessary to tailor a microfinance program:
(i) the chronically poor—people with very low asset levels, few income earning
opportunities, and suffering from food shortages and indebtedness (particularly in the
rural areas), (ii) the large number of people who relied on informal sector activities to



                                             1
earn a living—the economically active poor, including vulnerable groups, such as low-
income women and demobilized soldiers who needed to find employment to reintegrate
into regular life, (iii) and micro and small enterprises, which required capital to develop
and grow their businesses.

 4.     The supply of microfinance services was limited. An identification mission
visited Afghanistan in May 2002 to review the scope and possible options for Bank
assistance. At the same time, the Consultative Group to Assist the Group –CGAP–
carried out a detailed assessment of the microfinance sector. Findings of both missions
highlighted that while there was great demand for microfinance, existing providers did
not have the capacity to meet this demand effectively. In October 2002, the Bank carried
out a preparation/appraisal mission and identified approximately 20 local and foreign
NGOs that had or were planning microfinance activities in Afghanistan.

 5.     Microfinance programs were largely unsustainable due to lack of sufficient
funding for on-lending purposes, and limited existing capacity to conduct a sustainable
microfinance business. These programs were generally a component of broader
humanitarian efforts and not run on principles of self-sufficiency or envisioned as part of
the creation of permanent and sustainable financial institutions. Most NGOs had little
knowledge of global best practice; and only a few programs were found to be of
reasonable quality. The NGOs’ total outstanding loan portfolio was of US$1 million and
served 12,000 clients, a tiny percentage of the estimated potential demand. Over half of
the existing microfinance outreach was rural.

6.      All organizations providing microfinance services were invited to submit
proposals for financing. An in-depth assessment was carried out to evaluate their business
plans as well as to determine their capacity for delivering financial and technical services
to the poor.

7.      Rationale for Bank assistance: The Bank had extensive global experience in
microfinance and had developed ‘best practice’ guidelines. It had been instrumental in
establishing apex institutions that played a key role in scaling-up microfinance in
Bangladesh, Pakistan and Bosnia. The primary function of these institutions was to
channel (or ‘wholesale’) funds to retail MFIs, and in some cases was combined with
other functions, such as providing technical assistance and training to build the capacity
of partner MFIs, and helping develop an appropriate regulatory framework.

 8.     Given the Bank’s global experience and expertise, particularly in conflict affected
areas, the Afghan Government and international donors supported its involvement and
participation in leading the efforts for developing the microfinance sector in Afghanistan.

 9.     Relevant Context for Project Execution: The project was executed through two
recipient-executed trust funds financed by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
(ARTF). The initial project was established through two initial grant agreements: the
‘Microfinance Fund Project’ (TF052481 of June 4, 2003 for US$1,000,000) and the




                                             2
‘Microfinance Support for poverty Reduction Project’ (TF052452, July 10, 2003 for US$
4,000,000).1

10.     The second grant agreement 2 of July 10, 2003 was amended ten times during
project implementation. Most of the amendments were introduced to increase the total
grant funding for the project (it reached $183.3 million by project closing), while a few
were done to update key aspects of the project.

 11.    At the time of project preparation and during the first part of project
implementation (2003-2007) some of the procedures involving project preparation,
monitoring and supervision of projects financed by trust funds differed from the
guidelines applicable today. However, IDA procedures for disbursement and
procurement were applied to trust fund projects. At project design –and until 2007– there
were no Bank requirements to file Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) for
this project3.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

     12.   The project development objectives (PDOs) established in the grant agreement
    ‘Microfinance Fund Project’ (TF052081 - June 4, 2003) were to:

       (i)    Provide poor and low income people, particularly women, with access to
              credit and financial services; and thereby

       (ii)   Enable them to:
              a. Take advantage of business and other income generating opportunities
              b. Raise their income levels and develop skills, and
              c. Meet emergency needs and reduce their vulnerability and build assets.

    Performance indicators to measure PDOs were established in the first grant agreement
    and remained unmodified for the second agreement, as follows:

       1. Increase in outreach with appropriate geographical coverage and particular
          emphasis on poverty stricken areas and women.
       2. Qualitative impact on the more intangible aspects of helping clients rebuild their
          lives after twenty years of war.
       3. Improvements in the types and quality of financial products and services offered


1
  Two different trust funds were initially setup to manage the funding from different donors. Later in
project implementation, the project managed all funds through a single multidonor trust fund (TF052452).
2
  See Table 5 in section 1.7 for a summary of the grants with the respective amendments introduced
throughout the life of the project.
3
  Key project information on design, implementation and supervision can be found in the original grant
agreements, the corresponding amendment letters, and multiple trust fund grant requests for the ARTF



                                                   3
           to low-income clients.
        4. Established systems for microfinance delivery by the microfinance institutions
           and NGOs (best practices, trained staff, improved services delivery, etc.).
        5. Appointment of a Board of Directors and management of Microfinance
           Investment Support Facility Afghanistan (MISFA).

 The following match between objectives and indicators was prepared by the
 Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) team to better explain the initially
 defined performance indicators:

                               Table 1. Performance Indicators
Objective         Definition                                                  Values in 2003
                  Increase in outreach with appropriate geographical
Outreach          coverage and particular emphasis on poverty stricken        12,000 MFI clients
                  areas and women.
                  Qualitative impact on the more intangible aspects of
Livelihood        helping clients rebuild their lives after twenty years of   Not available
                  war.
Supply         of Improvements in the types and quality of financial
financial         products and services offered to low-income clients.        Not available
services
                   Established systems for microfinance delivery by the
Sector             microfinance institutions and NGOs (best practices, Not available
Development        trained staff, improved services delivery, etc.).
                   Appointment of a Board of Directors and management
                                                                        MISFA did not exist
                   of MISFA.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

 13. Revised objectives of the project were approved under the Grant Agreement
‘Microfinance Support for Poverty Reduction Project’(TF052452, July 10, 2003), which
continued the program of reconstruction activities set forth in the Microfinance Fund
Project. PDOs were to:

 (i)        help the population of the Recipient's territory to
            a. improve their livelihoods,
            b. make the transition from dependence on humanitarian assistance to
                economic independence, and
            c. empower them to build on their entrepreneurial spirit and skills;

 (ii)       provide to low-income people, through existing microfinance facilities, a range
            of financial services such as:
            a. income generating and enterprise loans,
            b. saving services, and
            c. consumer loans; and




                                                4
      (iii)   establish the foundations of a strong and sustainable microfinance sector.

Although the PDOs specified in both trust fund grant agreements are similar or
interrelated, it is important to note that only the first agreement (TF052081) established
women outreach as a key project development objective. Women outreach was one of the
key indicators monitored throughout the 7.2 years of project implementation.

14.     As total funding for the project increased throughout project implementation, new
targets were reestablished accordingly (i.e. number or microfinance clients, amount of
loans disbursed, etc.). Trust fund grant proposals were submitted to the ARTF
management committee, including the updated targets to continue to scale up the project.
Changes to the indicators and targets were reflected in the grant funding requests and
approved by the ARTF Management Committee.

 15.    In addition to the performance indicators established in both grant agreements
(Table 1), a set of more specific and measurable indicators was monitored during project
implementation. These indicators had been identified in early stages of project
preparation, and were gradually introduced as the project evolved (See Table 2 and 3).
During 2004-2006, the indicators presented in the grant proposals included specific
targets in terms of client outreach, and performance indicators for the participating MFIs
in terms of portfolio quality and operational efficiency. Although these indicators were
monitored regularly, no formal amendment was introduced to the legal grant agreement
to change the original indicators.

              Table 2. New Indicators introduced during Project Implementation
                                                          Revised - March 2004          Revised – Feb. 2006
 Objective/Type of             Original
                                                        Grant Proposal for First        Grant Proposal for
    Indicator             (TF52081/TF52452)
                                                               Amendment                 Fifth Amendment
                                                       Increasing number of
                       Increase in outreach with       clients over time (originally
                       appropriate geographical        40,000 to 50,000 clients by      5-year goal of
Outreach               coverage and particular         Project end, March 2005;         reaching 1 million
                       emphasis on poverty             new target 75,000) with          households
                       stricken areas and women.       movement towards
                                                       significant scale.
                       Qualitative impact on the
                       more intangible aspects of
Livelihood             helping clients rebuild             Not included or mentioned.
                       their lives after 20 years of
                       war.
                       Improvements in the types
                                                       Well-conceived products and lending methodology
                       and quality of financial
Supply of Financial                                    that take into account lessons learned from best
                       products and services
Services                                               practice and effectively meet the needs of target
                       offered to low-income
                                                       market.
                       clients.
                       Established systems for
                       microfinance delivery by        MFIs develop systems to assess impact and get
Sector Development     the microfinance                regular feedback on client satisfaction for improving
                       institutions and NGOs           product design and delivery of services.
                       (best practices, trained


                                                       5
                        staff, improved services
                        delivery, etc.).
                        Appointment of a Board of
                                                    Not included or mentioned
                        Directors and management
                        of MISFA.
Portfolio                                           Portfolio at risk (PAR) over 30 days < 5%
quality/Intermediat                                 Write-offs (average annual portfolio outstanding ) <
                        Not defined                 3%
e Outcome
Indicator                                           Rescheduled loans within active portfolio < 5%
Operational
                                                    Operating expenses are a reasonable percentage of
Efficiency/
                        Not defined                 loan portfolio, in line with age, portfolio size and
Intermediate
                                                    target client group.
Outcome Indicator


 16.    A new results framework was formally introduced in July 2008 with the tenth and
last amendment to the grant. As per project documents, this was done to align the project
with the new IDA–financed ‘Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving
Sustainability Project’ (Grant number H348-AF dated March 10, 2008). Baseline values
for the project were established for the first time starting in year 2006. Annual targets
were defined for the period 2007-2010 (Table 3). The new results framework introduced
indicators to measure progress towards operational self-sufficiency achieved by MFIs,
registration of MFIs under Afghan laws, women outreach, and increase in total
outstanding portfolio. In addition, intermediate indicators were defined to monitor,
profitability (return on assets –ROA), capital adequacy (CAR), and MFI sources of
funding different from MISFA, 'afghanization’4 of MFIs, and geographical outreach5.

Table 3. Revised Performance Indicators introduced to Grant Agreement July 2008 (Tenth
Amendment)
                                      Baseline               Actual     Target     Target
                                                 Actual                                        Target
Objective/Type of Indicator           Dec                    March      Dec        Dec
                                                 Dec 2007                                      June 2010
                                      2006                   2008       2008       2009

1. Percent of loan portfolio
outstanding that is accounted for     51%        50%         52%        70%        85%         87%
by MFIs with OSS>100%
2. Number/% of MFIs registered as
separate legal entities
(microfinance only) under Afghan
law -as corporations, companies,      0/0%       10/67%      14/93%     14/93%     15/100%      15/100%
banks, or any other recognized
legal form for financial service
providers
 3. Number of active clients of
                                      300,000    424,000     436,777    500,000    625,000     680,000
MFIs



4
  Defined as the number of MFIs with Afghan board members/directors; top management positions held by
Afghans.
5
  Measured by the number of provinces in which MFIs were providing services.


                                                    6
4. % of active clients who are
                                     70%        68%          65%        65%        65%        65%
women
5. Amount of outstanding loan                   $103         $108       $130       $175       $182
                                     $65
portfolio and percentage increase               million      million    million    million    million
                                     million
over December 2006 amount                       (158%)       (165%)     (200%)     (270%)     (280%)
6. Number of provinces with active
                                    21        23         23        28              30         32
MFIs
                              Revised Intermediate Outcome Indicators
     Intermediate Outcomes                                       Indicators
7. Operationally sustainable MFIs    Number /% of MFIs with an adjusted ROA> 3%
increasingly capable of sourcing     Number/%of MFIs with PAR 30 < 5%
funds (commercial debt,              Amount of funds on the balance sheets of MFIs from sources other
international funds, savings) from   than MISFA and their own equity.
the market                           Number/% of MFIs with a CAR > 12%
8. Microfinance service providers
are Afghan                           Number/% of MFIs with Afghan board members/directors in
corporations/organizations with      addition to international experts and owner representatives.
Afghans on their boards and in top
management positions                 % of top management positions held by Afghans
9. Outreach of financial service     Number of active clients doubled within three years
provision to poor people by
microfinance service providers has
doubled and reached most             Number of provinces in which MFIs are providing services
provinces.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

 17.     The beneficiaries were defined in the grant agreements as (i) the final recipients
of the microcredit, and (ii) microfinance institutions intermediating the funds. More
specifically, “beneficiary" was defined as a village or neighborhood community or group
(including poor and low income people, particularly women) which meets the eligibility
criteria for the Project including:

    (i)      people with very low asset levels and few income earning opportunities;
    (ii)     economically active persons relying on informal sector activities for a living;
    (iii)    micro and small enterprises; and
    (iv)     MFIs

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Project Components as approved in Grant Agreements

A. Microfinance Fund




                                                   7
Establishment and operation of a microfinance fund to provide Sub-Loans and Sub-
Grants:
   (i)    to MFIs for the funding of Sub-Projects to be carried out by eligible
          Beneficiaries; and
   (ii)   for capital support and capacity building.

    B. Capacity Building of Microfinance Fund Providers6

Capacity building of microfinance fund providers (MFIs), including:
   (i)    the strengthening of their governance structure;
   (ii)   the development of their management information and accounting systems;
   (iii) the standardization of their monitoring and/or reporting requirements;
   (iv)   strengthening portfolio management; and
   (v)    training of staff of the MFIs in the execution of poverty reduction programs.

    C. Implementation Support

Provision of implementation support to MRRD through a twining arrangement with a
firm to build local capacity and strengthen MISFA as an independent and autonomous
institution.

    D. Strengthening Microfinance Institutions

      1. Development of a sustainable microfinance sector, including:

          (i)     the strengthening of the capacity of selected MFIs to deliver credit and
                  other financial services;
          (ii)    assisting such MFIs to move towards operational and financial self-
                  sufficiency;
          (iii)   supporting such MFIs in the planning and carrying out of microfinance
                  programs; and
          (iv)    improving the effectiveness of MFIs to carry out poverty reduction
                  programs, including the making of Grants to Beneficiaries for the carrying
                  out of business and other income-generating projects or activities.

      2. Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Rural and Rehabilitation
         Development (MRRD) to manage and monitor grant funds.

      3. The conduct of study tours and training of staff of MRRD, MISFA and MFIs.

    E. Microfinance Investment and Support Facility for MISFA



6
 The term microfinance fund provider was used in a broad sense to include: NGO MFIs (including savings
and credit groups, and individual lending), community based savings and credit associations or
cooperatives, a microfinance bank or other specialized institution.


                                                  8
     The establishment of MISFA as an independent and autonomous apex microfinance
     institution to provide continuity of support to MFIs and ensure long term development
     and sustainability of the microfinance sector.

    1.6 Revised Components

    No revision to original components was introduced.

    1.7 Other significant changes
    (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
    allocations)

     18.    The project was originally designed for a two year implementation period from
    March 2003 through March 2005. Ultimately, the original closing date was extended by
    five years, and the project lasted 7.2 years, ending in June 2010.

     19.   The original funding allocation was US$1 million as per grant agreement dated
    June 4, 2003, and additional US$4 million was provided through Grant Agreement dated
    July 10, 2003. Subsequently, additional donor funding was raised by US$179 million
    through a total of ten amendments to the second grant agreement of July 10, 2003.

     20.   Amendments to the aggregate value of grant funds and closing dates of the project
    are provided in Table 4.

                     Table 4. Grant Funding Received for Project Implementation
                                                              Changes in
                 Agreement/                      Total
    Date                        Additional                   project closing           Comments
                 Amendment                      Funding
                                                                  date
                                                                               Two different TFs were
June 4, 2003    TF-52081       $ 1,000,000                   June 30, 2005
                                                                               setup initially. Later on, the
                                                                               project continued
                                                             September 30,
July 10, 2003   TF- 52452      $ 4,000,000                                     implementation under TF-
                                                                 2005
                                                                               52452
March 9,                                                                       Amendments 1-10 were
                Amendment 1    $ 4,700,000    $ 8,700,000    June 30, 2006
2004                                                                           introduced to the TF-52452
July 27, 2004   Amendment 2    $ 8,000,000    $16,000,000
February 23,
                Amendment 3    $ 4,100,000    $ 20,100,000
2005
July 18, 2005   Amendment 4    $ 20,300,000   $ 40,400,000
February 28,
                Amendment 5    $ 13,900,000   $ 54,300,000   June 30, 2007
2006
                                                                               A Project Agreement was
                                                                               signed between the Bank
                                                                               (administrator) and
July 7, 2006    Amendment 6    $ 20,000,000   $ 74,300,000
                                                                               Recipient to establish
                                                                               MISFA as the project
                                                                               implementing agency.
February 13,
                Amendment 7    $ 12,000,000   $86,300,000
2007



                                                   9
July 27, 2007 Amendment 8       $33,000,000    $ 119,300,000
February 5,
               Amendment 9      $ 14,000,000   $ 133,300,000
2008
July 15, 2008 Amendment 10      $ 50,000,000   $ 183,300,000   June 30, 2010
                                                                               By the end of grace period
October 31,                     $ -15,                                         in October 2010, the
               Cancellation                    $ 168,939,258
2010                            360741                                         undisbursed balance in the
                                                                               ARTF was cancelled.




    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

    2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
    (including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
    mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

    2.1.1     Soundness of the Background Analysis

    21.    Incorporation of lessons learned: Lessons learned from the development of
    microfinance in other countries incorporated in the design of this project included:

         The poor and low income segments of the population are willing to borrow for
          income generation, and to pay financial charges.
         Institutional development is a prerequisite to sustainable delivery of financial
          services.
         An apex microfinance support facility improves sustainability of the sector by
          providing continued support to MFIs.
         The governance structure of the apex must be independent and autonomous, including
          representation of the microfinance sector.
         Additional best practice guidelines for the development of apex institutions7 included:

          o Apex must have a clear goal of nurturing the development of sustainable MFIs that
            achieve good financial and social performance and be accountable for achieving
            this goal.
          o Funding must be based on a realistic assessment of the number of qualified MFIs
            that can borrow funds. Provision of technical services is a separate business
            activity; MFI capacity building needs must be assessed and funded accordingly.
          o Funding must be based on precisely defined selection criteria. The apex should have
            the authority and capacity to monitor closely MFIs and discontinue funding to those
            that do not meet performance targets.
          o Apex loans and other products must be tailored to the cash-flow patterns and
            planning needs of MFIs, not pre-set disbursement plans.


    7
     Lessons learned and best practices for developing microfinance at the time can be found in CGAP
    Occasional Paper “Apex Institutions in Microfinance?, January 2002.


                                                   10
          o Management must be of very high quality and possess a blend of microfinance
            expertise, managerial and financial skills, and integrity.

    In addition, the project design had to take into account a number of limitations and
    challenges:

 22.    Developing microfinance in a conflict affected environment. There were not
many examples worldwide on how to jump start a microfinance sector in a conflict
affected country. The case of Bosnia appeared to be the closest to Afghanistan. Starting
the project with a pilot provided an opportunity to test out different models of
microfinance. Once finished, the second phase aimed at scaling up operations.

 23.    Assessing market potential and project targets with limited available data.
The project started preparation in mid-2002, soon after a new Government of
Afghanistan was established, following the toppling of the Taliban Government. In
2002/2003 there was very little reliable information on demographics, levels and
incidence of poverty, including geographical distribution and composition of target
markets. Total population at the time was estimated around 26 million people, and the
potential of the microfinance market was estimated at around 1 million households. There
were only 12,000 microfinance clients in the country at project start. Later during
implementation, the National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment 2007/2008 determined
that from a total population or around 30 million, there were a total of 3.4 million
households in all of Afghanistan.

    24. Given the long term objective of the project to develop the microfinance sector
and due to the ongoing process of fund raising to support project implementation, initial
targets for project outreach were determined based on fund availability. For instance,
during the early stages of the project in 2004, the objective was to reach 75,000
microfinance clients by project closing date in March 2005. Total available funding at the
time was US$ 8.7 million. It was estimated that in five years, the expansion of the project
could reach 300,000-500,000 microfinance clients as additional funding became
available. The estimated growth was rapid, but considered feasible at the time based on
international experience. The sector was growing at rates between 127% and 200%
during the first three years.

 25.    By early 2006, total available funding had increased to US$ 54.3 million.
Consequently, the outreach target was further increased to reach 1 million households in
a five year period. Given the little background and lack of similar experiences worldwide,
the feasibility and pace to achieve initial targets were difficult to assess at the time. Main
constraints for the project to grow were attributed to the limited funding available. Strong
emphasis was placed on disbursements and outreach by donors and stakeholders, and
MFIs were incentivized to expand rapidly in order to serve as a vehicle for funds
placement.8


8
 See “One Step Back from the brink: Donors, Disbursement and Default?, by Dale Lampe, in
Microbanking Bulletin. July 2011.


                                             11
 26.    Challenging Security Environment: The project started preparation in a period
of increased hope and expectations for reconstruction and future of Afghanistan. Security
risks were recognized and accounted for during preparation, but at the same time great
efforts were being made to stabilize conditions in the country. Two distinct periods in
terms of security environment can be identified. As recorded throughout project
documents, and confirmed through field interviews during the ICR mission, security was
not an issue or obstacle for project development during its initial phase. Security started
to increasingly worsen since 2007.

2.1.2   Assessment of the Project Design

 27.     A two-phase approach was designed, including a transitory, pilot phase expected
to last one year, and a second phase that would last four years. The pilot phase was meant
to provide an opportunity to test out different models of microfinance9, and funded an
estimated $5 million to provide financial and technical assistance to qualified MFIs for
on-lending activities, and to build capacity for the effective delivery of financial services.
The second phase would scale up operations through an independent and autonomous
apex. This phased approach was given preference over setting up a full-fledged facility as
it allowed for better addressing the urgent need of providing the poor and low income
population with access to financial services. This will help them carry out their
businesses and income generating activities, while allowing time to build local capacity
to carry out the scale up phase. In addition, it was expected that this approach would help
the team circumvent the many risks that could delay effective implementation of the
project.

 28.    The project started with the pilot phase supporting 5 MFIs (BRAC, Mercy Corps,
FINCA, CARE, and CHF) each of which received performance based grants for capital
support and capacity building, as well as loans for on-lending. MISFA was expected to
provide continuity of support to MFIs and ensure long term development and
sustainability of the microfinance sector. In setting up MISFA, the project supported and
strongly encouraged the application of international best practices. This was one of the
key lessons learned from the development of microfinance in conflict affected areas.
MISFA was envisioned as the funding vehicle (wholesaler) to help channel all donor
support through a competent technical agency, rather than disbursing separately to
individual MFIs. It was also expected that MISFA would contribute to streamlining
reporting and fundraising procedures for MFIs, allowing them to concentrate on quickly
building up retail capacity.

Project Development Objectives

 29.    The overarching objective of the project can be summarized in two key
objectives: (i) supporting income generating activities of low income population through


9
 These included NGO MFIs –both savings and credit groups and individual lending–, community-based
savings, credit associations or cooperatives, and micro-finance commercial banks.


                                               12
the provision of financial services; and (ii) establishing the foundations of a strong and
sustainable microfinance sector. In hindsight, project development objectives and
components were complex and overly ambitious when compared with the initial funding
and implementation period established in the original agreement.10Although the project
was designed to be implemented in two phases, it was difficult to assess the time required
to effectively implement the pilot phase, build capacity, extract initial lessons, and launch
the scale-up phase. Nonetheless, the project’s PDOs, components, and activities,
adequately supported the project’s rationale of building up a microfinance sector that
could support income generating activities for low income households.

 Project Components

 30.   The project adequately incorporated lessons learned for institutional capacity
building and included specific lines within project components for training and capacity
building needs of participating MFIs, government institutions involved in project
implementation (MRRD), and MISFA.

 31.   The scope of activities and the targets for each phase were thoroughly developed
and documented in the project implementation plan prepared in 2002-2003. However, in
hindsight, the time (2 years) required to effectively establishing MISFA with the support
of a qualified international entity (including training of local staff, establishment of
accounting and management systems, as well as monitoring and supervisory capacity of
MFIs) and the hand-over to local management was initially underestimated.

 32.    Some of the activities envisaged within the different components were
interrelated. For instance, successful completion of the activities geared toward the
creation of MISFA under the different components was a pre-requisite for the success of
other components of the project.

 Component A provided for the establishment of the microfinance fund that would
 provide the resources to help develop a strong capital base for MFIs, while expanding
 outreach, as well as the necessary resources for onlending to final beneficiaries. This
 fund was designed to be managed by MISFA.

 Components C and E aimed at addressing the creation and capacity building of
 MISFA to be able to support the development of the microfinance sector in Afghanistan.
 The main activity sponsored under Component C was the provision of technical
 assistance to MRRD by a qualified entity to establish and manage MISFA. After the
 initial setup envisaged under Component C, activities under Component E would
 support the buildup of MISFA as an independent and autonomous entity, responsible for
 long term support to the microfinance sector.




10
     The project started with US$ 5 million and the initial closing date was March 2005.


                                                      13
 Components B and D responded to the two-stage approach (pilot phase and scale-up)
 envisaged for project implementation. Component B focused on developing initial
 institutional capacity of MFIs for future scaling up of their business, including their
 governance structure, management information (MIS) and accounting systems, risk
 management and other relevant operational requirements. Component D included the
 majority of grant funding given to MFIs which covered training and capacity building,
 aimed at further strengthening capacity of MFIs to ensure their long-term
 sustainability11.

 33.    With the strong need in the early days to show ability to disburse and implement,
good planning and ability to mobilize resources was important. Therefore, careful
attention was given at design stage to the quality of and control over the MFIs:

a. MFIs as retailers were initially to be selected from a pool of institutions providing
   microfinance services at the local/international level.

b. Qualifying MFIs would receive performance-based grants for capital support and
   capacity building as well as loans for on-lending

c. To launch the program, a field appraisal was carried out to assess compliance of
   MFIs with eligibility criteria:

      Microfinance experience: (i) at least six months existing experience of
       microcredit or microfinance provision in Afghanistan, or (ii) at least 5 years of
       experience internationally12.

      Commitment to sustainability: Experience or well documented business plans to
       develop a sustainable microfinance service provision over the long-term.

      Geographic coverage: A mix of organizations that provide good national
       geographic coverage.

        Diversity of approaches: A mix of organizations that target a range of client
         groups and represent different organizational models or delivery mechanisms.

d. MFIs were required to maintain performance standards to remain eligible for
   ongoing and future financing. In the case of non-performance, funds could be
   recalled and reallocated to better performing institutions.


11
   Activities to be sponsored under this component included (i) contracting technical services out to
qualified providers for intensive capacity-building support provided to all participating MFIs; (ii) technical
assistance and training in core business areas (i.e. lending methodologies, accounting and control systems,
design and implementation of MIS; and (iii) technical assistance for institutional strengthening of MISFA
to build staff, monitoring mechanisms, and funding instruments.
12
   The applicant had to have a proven track record in building financially sustainable microfinance
institutions and a methodology that was adaptable to the Afghan context.


                                                     14
2.1.3      Adequacy of government’s commitment

 34.    The government was actively involved and committed during the design and
preparation of the project. MISFA began in 2003 as one of the project’s components and
was housed under the MRRD. During the pilot phase, as an interim transition
arrangement, MISFA was governed by a steering committee comprised of MRRD and
the principal funders and sponsors. The MRRD was also charged with providing
logistical support to MISFA.

 35.     One of the objectives to be accomplished during the pilot phase was “the
establishment of MISFA as an independent and autonomous apex microfinance
institution to provide continuity of support to MFIs and ensure long term development
and sustainability of the sector.? MISFA was finally set up as a private non shareholding
company in March 2006 with the Ministry of Finance (MoF) as the sole sponsor.

2.1.4      Assessment of risks

 36.    Rapid growth of the sector was envisaged in the original project design and
consistent with the experience and lessons learned in other countries. Nonetheless, as the
experience of other countries would also later confirm, a very rapid growth with
insufficiently robust systems (notably internal controls) led to a repayment crisis, which
in turn affected the viability of several institutions. This was not unique to Afghanistan,
and countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, and Bosnia, among several others, started
to experience microfinance crises in 2008.13 In the case of Afghanistan, this situation was
compounded by a worsening security situation.

 37.    General risks related to the weak capacity to implement the project both at
MISFA level and MFIs were identified at project design. Project components adequately
reflected these risks, placing significant emphasis on capacity building and institutional
development. The time to build such capacity and complete the transfer of management
and operation of these institutions to Afghan nationals in the sector may have been
underestimated.

 38.   The lack of skilled Afghan staff, as well as additional challenges posed by staff
turnover in MISFA and MFIs was a major constraint during the implementation phase.
These constraints may have been underestimated at project design.

 39.    Notably, in the case of MISFA the situation improved considerably after 2008,
with the incorporation of lessons learned from the microfinance crisis into their
operation. A new management team came into MISFA in 2008 and shifted the focus of
its operation, strengthening MISFA’s monitoring and supervisory capacity of MFIs, and
playing a more active role in the consolidation of the sector as a result of the crisis.




13
     CGAP, 2010. “Growth and Vulnerabilities in Microfinance?.


                                                   15
2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status,
and actions taken, as applicable)

 40.    For the implementation period of 2003-2008, based on the impressive growth of
MFIs’ outreach, the ARTF project had been rated as Satisfactory. The case of MISFA
was showcased by the Bank and donors as a success story on how to jumpstart a
microfinance sector in a conflict affected environment. In spite of ongoing insurgent
activity and insecurity, microfinance was one of the success stories coming out of
Afghanistan.

 41.    As a consequence of the remarkable growth experienced in the sector, the good
performance in key indicators such as client outreach, percentage of women benefitting
from the newly established microfinance services, and expansion of geographical
coverage of MFIs, the project managed to raise several rounds of donor funding to scale
up operations. A shortcoming of the unique design of the project was the constant update
in main outcome and intermediate indicators, which makes it difficult to evaluate the
achievement of project’s outcomes in a consistent manner. As explained earlier in section
1.1 (p.10) this was a trust fund executed project and although IDA procedures applied for
procurement and related fiduciary standards, in some instances IDA conditions were
relaxed14 . Some key bank procedures were updated during the implementation of the
project. For instance, amendments to the grant agreement were introduced to reflect the
new policies in terms of procurement rules. In addition, ISRs were introduced to
supervise and monitor project results since 2007

Initial Delays in Project Implementation

 42.    Due to initial delays for MFIs to receive grant funding and credit line support –in
some cases of more than a year–, the overall project schedule was shifted, causing the
scale up period to start later than initially planned. Following IDA rules for procurement
and disbursement caused some problems at the project outset as MISFA and MFIs
familiarized themselves with the procedures. In addition, being part of the ARTF meant
that expenditures were going through the budget, which in turn meant that the process to
authorize and effect disbursement took longer than expected. In the initial stage, funding
proposals needed to have government approval, and all proposals beyond US$ 200,000
required Presidential approval. These issues were resolved as implementation progressed.

Mid-Term Review15




14
   One example of this was the relaxation of the condition of no objection certificates for expenditure below
certain thresholds, and the rules regarding the statement of expenditures prior to release of second and
subsequent tranches were also relaxed. For more information on this, see “Aid Effectiveness and
Microfinance: Lessons from Afghanistan “by Martin Greeley, March 2005.
15
   A mid-term review to assess the status of the microfinance sector and the role of MISFA in its
development was commissioned by the MRRD, MoF, and MISFA donors.


                                                    16
43.     The mid-term review found that with ‘continued support and an enabling
environment, there was potential for many MFIs to become financially sustainable’ in the
three years following the review. The role of MISFA to support the sector was considered
as highly satisfactory, and justified a clear need for its continuation to channel funds to
the MFIs to improve their capacity, outreach and sustainability. It was also recognized
that for MISFA to optimally serve the sector in the future, improved security conditions
leading to stability were necessary. In addition, the review advocated for a clear support
through uninterrupted and timely funding from donors and the Government, continued
independence to operate following microfinance best practices. In terms of the
development of the microfinance sector, the review found that ‘the deliberate approach to
encourage rapid scaling in client outreach’ had been successful in building a
microfinance sector in a short period of time. MISFA’s efforts to move towards
commercialization were an example in the South Asia region.

Relevance of Project Components

44.    Indicative of the two-phase approach was the rapid growth experienced in the first
three years of the project during the pilot phase. Most efforts were placed on increasing
disbursement levels, mobilizing resources to reach out to most vulnerable segments of the
population and heavily affected conflict areas. This strategy was aligned with project
PDOs of supporting income generating activities in Afghanistan, and establishing the
foundations of a strong and sustainable microfinance sector.

 45.   Due to the extension of project closing dates, from March 2005 originally to June
2010, some project components and sub-components lost relevance over time. This was
the case of components E and C, which focused on establishing MISFA. Similarly, the
provision of grants for capital support and capacity building of MFIs was designed to
fade out as the project transitioned to the scale up phase.

Boom-bust period in the development of the microfinance sector

46.     In describing and understanding the development of the microfinance sector in
Afghanistan two periods can be identified: (1) start-up and growth, and (2) consolidation
process. The early years of microfinance in Afghanistan covered the period 2003-2008.
By March of 2008, MFIs had collectively served 450,000 clients in 23 of Afghanistan’s
34 provinces with loans outstanding of more than US$ 106 million. 70% of the clients
were women and 40% of loans were taken in rural areas. The rate of loan repayments was
reported to be 98%. There was a rapid increase in outreach; the reports from the MFIs
indicated progress toward operational self-sustainability and the organizations were
replacing international managers with Afghan staff.




                                            17
       Figure 2. Reported growth of the Afghan microfinance sector 2003-2011
                                             Microfinance Sector 2004?2011
                         140.00                                                                   500,000
                                                                                                  450,000
                         120.00
          US Million $                                                                            400,000
                         100.00                                                                   350,000

                          80.00                                                                   300,000




                                                                                                            Active
                                                                                                  250,000
                          60.00




                                                                                                            Cli
                                                                                                  200,000
                          40.00                                                                   150,000
                                                                                                  100,000
                          20.00
                                                                                                  50,000
                             -                                                                    -
                                  2004    2005     2006     2007   2008   2009    2010*    2011


                                         Portfolio outstanding       Number of active clients

       Source: MISFA and Project documents

 47.    A second period in the development of the sector, the consolidation period, can be
said to have started in 2008 and continued beyond 2010, after the project closed. By
2008, the MFIs revealed serious weaknesses in many of the internal reporting systems
and the future viability of a number of the institutions came into question. Due to the
deterioration of the conditions in the sector, which were reflected on MFIs client growth,
portfolio quality and operating costs, MISFA started a consolidation process of its MFI
partners in 2008. The rapid client outreach had come at the expense of proper due
diligence in lending, compliance with internal control processes and internal monitoring
of performance, all of which would have required much more time and attention. These
factors, combined with cost inflation and a deteriorating security environment,
contributed to a marked slowing of growth and a decline in the portfolio quality of most
of the MFIs.

 48.     Revised outcome indicators which were originally on track started to deteriorate
and remained below target by project closing date. Consequently, rating of the ARTF
project was downgraded to moderately satisfactory when it closed on June 30, 2010. It
should be noted that a potential consolidation process was accounted for in the project’s
initial design. The project intended to test different microfinance models, which would
later lead to unsuccessful models leaving the business, and stronger MFIs taking the lead
in the development of the sector.

49.    The worsening situation in the microfinance sector after the rapid growth of 2003-
2008 was not unique to Afghanistan. A systemic crisis affected the microfinance sector in
a number of countries during the same period. Similar to Afghanistan, microfinance
experienced an unprecedented growth and rapid expansion in several countries during
2004-2008. At the same time, donors and social investors began to channel larger




                                                            18
amounts of funds to MFIs worldwide, generating a significant supply pressure behind the
rapid growth. 16 While financial performance remained solid during the early years,
problems with credit repayments started to emerge in 2008. Insufficiently robust
monitoring systems in the MFIs contributed to the crisis, leading to a consolidation
process in the sector in different countries.

 Development of Institutional Capacity

 50.     As project implementation progressed, MISFA’s limited capacity became a
constraint to ensure adequate monitoring and supervision of MFI’s activities and their
performance towards the agreed business plan. During the period in which MISFA was
being setup and in-house capacity was built, monitoring and evaluation of MFIs was
conducted through the hiring of external experts and rating agencies. These evaluations
provided key inputs on the performance of MFIs and monitored the implementation of
their business plan, including progress of capacity building activities. By the end of the
initial implementation phase, MISFA was expected to become an autonomous entity in
charge of wholesaling funds and providing capacity building support to retail MFIs.
While each individual NGO/MFI would implement its own program (including onlending
and capacity building programs), MISFA would take the lead in ensuring overall
compliance with the project, including achievement of MFIs 17 business development
plans and performance targets.

 51.     However, there was a dire shortage of skilled Afghans that significantly affected
project implementation. This was further aggravated by a high turnover of the staff,
which was linked to (i) competing job offers as trained Afghan staff were scarce and in
strong demand, and (ii) the security situation. The high staff turnover both in MISFA and
the different MFIs is said to have negatively affected project implementation in a number
of ways: (i) lack of knowledge –and implementation– of operational manuals that were
developed using international best-practice in microfinance, (ii) lack of knowledge–and
implementation– of Bank guidelines and procedures on financial management,
procurement and general project implementation which affected compliance or delayed
implementation in a number of cases (See section 2.4), and (iii) delays in process of
institutional capacity building by limiting the transfer of know-how to local institutions
and Afghan staff.

 52.    Monitoring and supervision shortcomings were addressed by MISFA
management later in project implementation. For instance, MISFA shifted its focus in
2008, identifying three goals to strengthen its role and that of its partner institutions: (a)
accountability, (b) transparency, and (d) portfolio quality 18 . For the first time since
project start, MISFA began engaging more directly with the MFI shareholders and
holding them accountable for the operations of their MFIs by requiring shareholder
equity injections as a pre-condition for further MISFA financial support. In addition, in


16
   CGAP, 2010. “Growth and Vulnerabilities in Microfinance?..
17
   By December 2007, MISFA had 16 MFI partners under contract.
18
   MISFA, Draft Strategic Plan, 2010-2015.


                                                19
2009, MISFA began to focus more attention on direct monitoring and supervision of the
MFIs to verify the transparency and accountability of the reporting. To do so, MISFA had
first strengthened its own core functions of finance, monitoring, risk management, and
governance to set a clear standard for MFI operations.

Security Issues

53.     Starting 2007, security conditions started to deteriorate and the situation worsened
progressively thereafter. The deteriorating security environment led to previously robust
areas of operation either to shrink or to the exit of MFIs from those regions. This led to a
slowdown in overall growth in the sector; branches were closed in a number of regions,
preventing onsite visits of MFI staff, and affecting loan collection, and subsequently
negatively affecting portfolio quality. Project outcomes were severely affected in the
specific regions.

Cancellation of undisbursed balance

 54.    By the end of project implementation, an undisbursed balance of US$15.360.741
was cancelled. This is explained by the consolidation process that started in 2008, which
led to a slowdown in the sector’s growth.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

 55.    Although a set of project performance indicators was established with the initial
grant agreement, these indicators were vague and did not allow for adequately measuring
progress towards achievement of PDOs. This, however, could be explained by the fact
that the project started with relatively little funding (US$5 million), but with the
expectation to continue to raise donor funding to scale up the project. In particular,
indicators such as (i) qualitative impact on the more intangible aspects of helping clients
rebuild their lives, and (ii) improvements in the type and quality of financial products and
services provided, were broadly defined, thus making it difficult to measure.

 56.   As the project evolved, additional indicators were subsequently incorporated and
monitored to better define original performance indicators and achievement of PDOs. A
shortcoming is that these indicators were modified several times during project
implementation to accommodate scale up of the project, as well as changing conditions in
the overall microfinance environment.

57.     Intermediate outcome indicators were well defined, measurable and attributable to
the project. Intermediate outcome indicators were monitored and reported in terms of
number of active clients and women clients; number of loans disbursed; cumulative
amount of loans disbursed; the amount of outstanding loans; and the microfinance share
of the total sector loan portfolio, and operational sustainability of MFIs.




                                            20
 Implementation

 58.   Results and intermediate indicators developed and monitored throughout project
implementation were appropriate. The results framework of the project was refined and
improved as the project scaled up.

 59.    The project’s objectives also included (i) providing a range of financial services
such as income generating loans, saving services, and consumer loans; and (ii) help the
people to improve their livelihoods, raise their income and develop skills, build assets
and reduce vulnerability, etc. Although no indicators were specified to monitor these
outcomes during project implementation, an impact assessment conducted in 2009 19
indicated that microfinance activities sponsored under the project had a positive impact
on the lives of borrowers and their families, improving their livelihoods.

 Utilization

 60.     The project started to address the need for impact measurement at the household
level later during implementation. Case studies were carried out to monitor progress and
to identify project constraints and shortcomings to be able to adjust interventions in the
project. A baseline survey 20 was conducted in the first quarter of 2007 to document
outcomes of the project. It included a sample of 1015 households and was representative
at the national level. Key findings of the study were the following:

      Before the microfinance sector started functioning in Afghanistan in 2003, 65% of
       the households did not take any loans.
      The remaining 35% borrowed from friends, relatives and moneylenders. Households
       burdened under consumptive debt would find their asset base eroded to furnish the
       debt.
      23% of the sample reported that their credit needs went unmet before the advent of
       MFIs
      Loans were taken to finance livestock, small business, self-employment and housing.
      81% of loans had been used to either start a new business or expand an existing
       business.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Financial Management

 61.    The project operated under the steadily improving Project Financial Management
reforms under implementation by the Government of Afghanistan with the World Bank
assistance. Under these reforms, proper records of grants received and disbursements


19
  Source: ARTF Report
20
  A summary of the baseline study can be found in the attachment of the ninth amendment to the grant
agreement done in April 5, 2008.


                                                21
through the designated accounts were maintained by the MoF Special Disbursement Unit.
This was initially manual and later migrated to the Afghanistan Financial Management
Information System (AFMIS). The funds flow to the project was timely.

62.     Proper records of eligible expenditures for various components and activities were
maintained by MISFA. Internal controls were adequate. There were periodic internal
audits done by MISFA, except for fiscal year 2011, where a single internal audit covering
the whole year was planned. This internal audit report was not available for review at the
time the last supervision was done for the project in November 2010 after the project
closing. Regular IUFRs in the agreed format were submitted during the life of the project.

63.    Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly though there were
delays in the initial four years. The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of
Afghanistan was qualified (unclean) for solar years 1383, 1384, and 1387; for all other
years up to SY1389 the audit opinion was unqualified (clean). All audit observations up
to SY1389 were promptly resolved. The last audit for the project was for SY1389.

 64.    The financial management capacity strengthened during the course of the
implementation of the project. The Bank’s FM unit participated in all supervision
missions and provided guidance and support to strengthen the FM arrangements. The
project closed with a ‘Moderately Satisfactory’ FM supervision rating.

Procurement

65.    MISFA –as well as the MFIs – had to follow World Bank procurement guidelines.
Expenditures covered by the project included five different categories: (i) goods, (ii)
consultants’ services and audits, (iii) training, (iv) incremental operating costs, and (v)
sub-grants and sub-loans. Procurement of goods and consultants’ services for MISFA and
MFIs had to adhere to World Bank guidelines.

 66.   The post procurement review found important deviations during the procurement
process:

     There was neither a focal point/procurement expert within MISFA to provide
      guidance to the MFIs, nor there were procurement experts hired under the MFIs to
      look after the procurement of goods and hiring consultants.

     Despite the guidance provided to the MFIs and MISFA they were not able to prepare
      a proper procurement plan for their goods and consultants to be hired.

     The Bank provided training to enhance the capacity of the staff assigned for
      procurement under the MFIs and informed them of the bank guidelines. However,
      due to frequent turnover of MISFA and MFIs staff, the training was of little help to
      the implementing agencies.




                                            22
67.    The project had to refund $291,125 to the Bank at the end of the project as one
MFI failed to comply with Bank procurement guidelines. The procurement performance
under the project was rated as Unsatisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

68.    Project’s achievements in the expansion and development of the microfinance
sector in Afghanistan created a strong momentum for continued support to growing
MFIs. A follow-up project ‘Expanding Microfinance Outreach and Improving
Sustainability’ financed by IDA was prepared in 2007. The objective of the project was
to continue to support MISFA by focusing on achieving sustainability of MFIs and
helping them achieve operating self-sufficiency. The project closing date was June 2012.

 69.    Despite the success of the ARTF funded project in setting up the microfinance
sector, government authorities, donors, MISFA and MFIs recognize that further
development of the sector faces significant challenges to achieve sustainability and
increase, or even maintain, current outreach levels. While the microfinance sector in
Afghanistan grew steadily until 2008, the number of borrowers has been decreasing since
then, and the speed of loan growth has slowed down. As noted earlier, this was
influenced by the general crisis that affected the microfinance sector worldwide and is
not unique to Afghanistan

 70.     MISFA, nonetheless has managed to weather the crisis by carrying out difficult
reforms in the sector. In 2012, after a long and arduous exit and consolidation process
closely overseen by MISFA, the number of microfinance partners had decreased from 16
separate MFIs to seven. Two main institutions continued to provide microfinance
services outside MISFA: FINCA and IIFC. Two MFIs are about to exit the sector (BRAC
and ASA). MISFA’s new strategic priorities, established in the draft business plan for
2013- 2015, focus on three primary areas (i) continuing growth of MISFA as a strong
institution; (ii) deepening MISFA’s core business of access to finance; and (iii)
expanding development activities that will complement and expand the market for the
core work.

 71.   The World Bank intends to continue supporting efforts to increase access to
finance in Afghanistan which has one of the lowest access rates in the world. To do so,
the World Bank is considering further support to MISFA –learning from the lessons of
close to 10 years of collaboration. In line with MISFA draft strategic plan, the focus
would be on supporting the development of appropriate financial products to the Afghan
context. Despite the microfinance crisis, the achievements in the microfinance sector
should not be under-estimated considering the huge challenges faced by Afghanistan.




                                          23
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

 72.    The project—its objectives, design, and results—remain highly relevant for
Afghanistan’s economic development. The World Bank continues to play an important
role in the country with assistance in this area. Through this project, it supported an
innovative approach that scaled-up an initial pilot and provided benefits beyond what was
expected when the project started in 2003. In addition, microfinance continues to play a
key role in the developmental strategy for Afghanistan. The Bank Interim Strategy Note21
(ISN) for Afghanistan for the period 2012-2014 includes the support to ‘access to
financial services’ under the pillar for ‘Strengthening the Business Environment’. The
support will build on the lessons learned from the implementation of the ‘ARTF –
Microfinance Support for Poverty Reduction Project’ and the ‘IDA –Expanding
Microfinance Outreach’ projects.

 3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details
on outputs in Annex 2)

 73.     At the design stage, significant benefits were expected from the project: (i)
facilitation of credit expansion to support income generating activities and available
financial products for low income segments; (iii) improvement in institutional and
technical capacity of MFIs (iv) building a strong apex institution to channel funding and
contribute to sustainability of the microfinance sector. Although the project achieved part
of the initial objectives, there were some shortcomings derived from a longer than
expected process to effectively build institutional capacity. These shortcomings
significantly constrained further development of the sector, and contributed to the
deterioration of financial soundness indicators of MFIs.

 74.    By project closing date in June 2010, the project had partially achieved its main
development objectives of providing support to income generating activities for low
income households through the provision of microfinance services, and establishing the
foundations of a strong and sustainable microfinance sector. The project was successful
in providing support to low income households through microcredits and in establishing
the foundations of a microfinance sector in Afghanistan. In terms of ensuring
sustainability of that sector, the project was affected by the consolidation process that
started in 2008, which slowed down the scale up and strengthening process of the
microfinance sector as a whole.



21
  IDA and IFC, Interim Strategy Note for Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for the period FY12-FY14.
http://www-
wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/2012/04/02/000386194_201204020130
35/Rendered/PDF/668620ISN0P1250Official0Use0Only090.pdf


                                               24
75.     As explained in section 2.2 (p. 46), the microfinance sector has gone through two
different cycles so far. Starting 2008, the number of borrowers started to decrease, loan
growth slowed down rapidly, arrears and default were rising, and the operations of a
number of MFIs began to deteriorate. By 2008, the sector had already 15 locally
registered limited liability companies providing microcredit, one company in registration
process, 428,000 clients, 373,000 borrowers and an outstanding loan portfolio of around
US$107 million.

 76.    At project closing, the sector had been experiencing a consolidation process
initiated by MISFA. The outstanding loan portfolio in November 2010 was US$123
million, and total outreach was 431,000 microfinance clients, 60% of which were women.
From a total of 16 MFI partners at the project’s peak, 9 MFIs remained in business. The
reduction in the number of MFI cannot be considered as an indicator of the project’s
failure or success, as outcomes were measured by client outreach and progress towards
sustainability. Although sustainability of the remaining MFIs in the sector had not yet
been ensured, efforts were focused on achieving operational self-sufficiency. The results
of MISFA’s active engagement in merging the operation of 5 failing MFIs to transform
them in a sustainable institution (MUTAHID) are yet to be seen.

 77.   In summary, total outreach achieved at project-end was 431,000 clients, compared
to the project target of 680,000. Considering that the project started with only 12,000
microfinance clients, achieving more than 400,000 clients in seven years and in spite of
the challenging conditions, can be considered a project success. In other aspects,
however, the project did not manage to achieve key intermediate results indicators.
Overall quality of portfolio (PAR30) was 27% compared to the project target of 5%;
number of provinces with MFIs was 26 compared to the project target of 32; and none of
the MFIs had achieved operational self-sufficiency.

 78.   Nonetheless, the significant impact that the project had on jumpstarting the
microfinance industry in Afghanistan needs to be recognized. By closing date, the project
had already established the foundations of a microfinance sector in the country. Despite
the multiple challenges faced during implementation (See section 2.2), and the failure of
some MFIs, the project showed that microfinance could be developed in a difficult
environment such as Afghanistan.

 79.    Evidence of progress towards the project PDO of supporting income generating
activities was presented through two studies, which estimated that more than 80% of
loans were used to start or expand businesses, and that each borrower generated 1.5 jobs.
A 2009 impact assessment indicates that microfinance activities have had a positive
impact on the lives of female borrowers and their families. While 70% of microfinance
clients are women, the survey also found that 80% of loans were used by men.
Nonetheless, female clients reported to have improved their contribution to business
decisions and there was a positive impact on women clients’ participation in the
household economic-decision making on food, utilities, health, education, and clothing.
Improvement was also seen in client savings, with 69% of clients saving money,
compared to only 34% before taking the loan.



                                           25
80.    The achievement of PDO is considered as Moderately Satisfactory.

 The achievements of the components are discussed below.

 81.    Component A. Microfinance Fund (US$ 120.9 million): The project
successfully established a microfinance fund to provide loans to MFIs to carry out their
operation and to support development in the sector. As envisaged by the project, MISFA
uses the fund for onlending to MFIs.

 82.    Component B. Capacity Building of Microfinance Fund Providers (US$ 1.2
million): This component is interrelated with D and had limited success in most of the
participating MFIs. Final performance of this component is difficult to rate, as there were
no specific indicators to measure progress of the component. As mentioned throughout
the ICR, the project did account for the implementation (and potential failure) of a variety
of approaches and business models in microfinance during the pilot phase of the project.
In other words, the initial funding was intended to test out viable approaches, and then to
consolidate funding and support –through mergers and takeovers– to fewer stronger
microfinance providers.

83.     Component C. Implementation Support (US$ 2.4 million): This component is
interrelated with E and was successfully accomplished early in project implementation
with the transformation of MISFA from being a program within the MRRD jurisdiction
into an independent institution. The main achievement of this component and of the
project in general, was the creation of a competent and independent apex institution,
which is currently fully operational under Afghan laws and with strong local capacity.
The project envisaged from the beginning an independent institution with a strong
governance structure, a goal achieved during implementation with the appointment of a
strong and independent board of directors. This has allowed MISFA to implement
difficult reforms, such as the consolidation of the sector, which are notably positive given
the lack of similar examples of reforms in Afghanistan.

 84. Component D. Strengthening Microfinance Institutions (US$ 41.9 million):
This component is closely connected to B, and included most part of the grant funding
provided to MFIs to start their business and scale up. Successful implementation of this
component entailed as prerequisite the successful achievement of capacity building of
MFIs, including adapting their business models to the Afghan context. Nonetheless, and
apart from some external issues that affected project implementation in general, several
MFIs did not manage to develop strong management and monitoring systems to support
their operations, which subsequently undermined their financial sustainability. As
mentioned earlier, this was part of a sector-level crisis that also occurred in India,
Morocco, and other countries, and not unique to Afghanistan.

 85.  In addition, MFIs suffered from high turnover of staff which affected the impact
and continuity of training and capacity building efforts in these institutions –as is
common in Afghanistan and other conflict-affected environments with poor security and



                                            26
scarce human resources (in terms of trained and experienced staff, who can be in high
demand from other employers). Further to this, increasing security issues added to the
problem, contributing to high staff turnover in security affected areas. Due to the
shortcomings in building up strong MFIs, this component was only partially successful.

 86.   By project closing date, the number of MFIs supported by MISFA had shrunk
from 16 to 9, with the ongoing exit or consolidation of MFIs that were underperforming.
As the consolidation process was accounted for as a potential consequence of the two
phase approach, it should not be considered as a failure of the project. Actual problems
should be assessed in terms of the decrease in total number of active clients (project
outreach) and on the overall outstanding portfolio. Furthermore, MISFA’s active role in
carrying out reforms to consolidate the sector, implementing lessons learned, should be
highlighted as one key achievement in strengthening the microfinance sector in
Afghanistan while recovering from the crisis.

 87.   Project intermediate indicators confirmed that all participating MFIs were
operating as Afghan companies by project closing date. However, apart from the First
Microfinance Bank (FMFB), none of the MFIs had achieved operational self-sufficiency.
As of July 2012, operational self-sufficiency indicators for MISFA partners were as
follows: FMFB (128.1%); Hope for Life –HFL (73.3%); Oxus (80.8%); ASA (27%); and
MUTAHID (29.6%).

88.    Component E. Microfinance Investment and Support Facility for MISFA:
This component is closely related to C and was successfully achieved during the
implementation of the project. MISFA has been working successfully on strengthening its
capacity and building up new systems to continue to monitor and support the
development of the MFI sector in Afghanistan.

 89.    MISFA has played a key and active role in the restructuring of the sector since
2008. By the end of 2010, MISFA had a net portfolio outstanding of US$ 58.7 million,
and total assets in the amount of US$ 136.5 million. MISFA has reported positive
financial results since 2007 onwards, and has achieved financial sustainability, being able
to sustain its lending activity with the proceeds received from loans repayments.
MISFA’s net operating profit has been increasing consistently from US$ 500,000 in 2007
to US$ 3.1 million in 2010.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms,
least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

90.     There were no estimates of economic rate of return, cost effectiveness or net
present value at project start. The unique challenging conditions experienced during
project implementation make it difficult to compare this project with alternative scenarios
or to establish an economic rate of return. Further to this, and given that there was no
microfinance sector in Afghanistan before project start, it would be arbitrary to establish
efficiency estimates for the period 2003-2010. This cannot be done without considering



                                            27
    the long term nature of the process, the challenges of developing a sector from scratch,
    and the two cycles and systemic issues that impacted the development of the sector in
    several countries worldwide.

     91.    The question to be asked is whether the Bank, given the benefit of hindsight,
    would have proceeded with the Microfinance for Poverty Reduction project. The project
    supported the emergence of a microfinance sector in Afghanistan that is now –despite the
    contraction experienced in recent years– in place and on its way to consolidation;
    catalyzing the expansion of microfinance lending to low income segments in need of
    funds for consumption and income generating activities.

     92.    The existence of a microfinance sector in Afghanistan, and of an independent and
    strong apex facility like MISFA, both supported under the project, will continue to
    generate benefits in the future. It should be noted that MISFA has been able to fully cover
    its operating costs from operating revenue from year 2006/2007 onwards. The project
    benefits could also be measured through the continued access to finance provided by the
    existing MFIs to low income segments. At the time of project closing, there were 9 active
    MFIs in Afghanistan, serving 431,000 clients, 60% of which were women, and with a
    total portfolio outstanding of US$123 million. Lessons learned from the project are
    expected to help the design and implementation of similar projects in the future.

    3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
    (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

     93.   The project development objectives were partially achieved. The relevance of the
    PDOs was confirmed with the continued participation in the project of 6 MFIs and a
    microfinance bank beyond project closing date in 2010. These institutions continued to
    provide microcredit to low income segments on a mass-market and a commercially-
    sustainable basis.

     94.    The project merits the “moderately satisfactory? rating by fulfilling the key
    objective of kick starting the microfinance sector in Afghanistan. At the project peak in
    2008, there were a total of 443,295 active microfinance clients, 63% of which were
    women. The target of the percentage of the loan portfolio outstanding of MFIs with
    operational self-sufficiency was not met, and stood at 45% by project closing date. The
    target was 87%. Table 5 presents Outcome Indicators as modified in the tenth amendment
    to the grant agreement carried out in 2008.

                                    Table 5. Outcome Indicators
                                                        Actual Values                 Final Target
                               Baseline
 Project Outcome Indicators                 YR1        YR2        YR3       YR4
                               Dec 2006                                                   Jun
                                          Dec 2007     Dec        Dec       Nov
                                                                                          2010
                                                       2008       2009      2010
1. Percent of loan portfolio     51%        60%        36%         0%       43%           87%



                                                  28
outstanding that is accounted
for by MFIs with OSS>100%.
2. Number / %of MFIs
registered as separate legal
entities under Afghan law – as
                                                                        14 /
corporations, companies,           0 / 0%    10 / 67%      14 of 15              13/100%       15/100%
                                                                       100%
banks, or any other recognized
legal form for financial service
providers.
3. Number of active clients of
                                   300,000   375,000       443,295    434,839    430,650        680,000
MFIs.
                                                                                  60% of
4. % of active clients who are                                                    clients
                                    70%       68%           63%         60%                  65% of clients
women.                                                                            68% of
                                                                                 borrowers
5. Increase in amount and
percentage of loan portfolio                  $90 M        $106 M /   $101 M /   $123M/         $182 M
                                  $65 M
outstanding relative to base                  /138%         163%       155%       190%           /280%
year
     Source: MISFA and project documents

    3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
    (if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

     95.    The project’s impact on poverty was positive as it helped final beneficiaries of
    microfinance loans gain access to alternative and formal sources of finance. Beneficiaries
    with access to micro-loans were able to borrow, increase their livelihoods and generate
    employment (mostly self-employment) by expanding their production or services. The
    inclusion of women as one of key target groups in the project was pointed out by some of
    the interviewed MFIs to be overly ambitious, given the cultural background and the role
    of women in Afghanistan. In spite of these caveats, the latest data collected by
    independent studies contracted by MISFA showed that an important share of
    beneficiaries had women as the final recipients of the funds, and their role was more than
    an intermediary for the household to obtain financing.

    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
    (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
    development)

     96.     The project resulted in the creation of a competent and autonomous apex
    institution, MISFA, which is the lead development institution supporting the development
    of the microfinance sector in Afghanistan. Most MFIs interviewed recognized MISFA’s
    leading role and look for further support from MISFA in the form of access to lines of
    credit, training and capacity building, as well as more information sharing on the
    development of the sector in the country.

    (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)



                                                      29
 97.    The project’s impact went beyond the original project objective as it catalyzed a
revolution in thinking and practice in microfinance operations in Afghanistan to the point
that microfinance is now a key element of the national development strategy.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

 98.     The MFI clients interviewed have been supportive of overall project
achievements. They highlighted (i) the access to micro-loans enabled by the project, and
(ii) the importance of the initial grant funding made available to support their operation.
Some of the constraints faced during project implementation referred to (i) difficulties in
availability of skilled local staff, (ii) slow training and capacity building process, due
among others to high staff turnover, and (iii) an unforeseen escalation of security threats
that negatively affected operation of some MFIs and caused their exit in several
geographical areas.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

 99.    The risk for development outcome is considered significant. Risks that
achievements could not be maintained are significant mainly due to worsening of the
security situation. Other risks are manageable. MISFA is currently carrying out a
consolidation process of nonperforming MFIs and challenges for these MFIs to achieve
operational sustainability are substantial. Nonetheless, there are a few MFIs (i.e.
FINCA 22 , OXUS) on track for sustainability as self-reported during ICR mission
interviews. In addition, FMFB, which started to receive funding from MISFA in 2008 for
onlending purposes, operates in a commercial and sustainable manner.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

 100.   The bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory based
on a cumulative analysis of the Bank’s performance against key selected relevant criteria
to the developmental and country context. The Bank responded in a timely manner to the
needs of the country, in particular to address the needs of low income households to have



22
  Although FINCA received grant funding in the initial stage of the project, it is no longer a MISFA
partner.



                                                30
access to basic microfinance services, and helping them to improve their livelihoods. The
Bank incorporated lessons learned in implementing lines of credit operations in other
countries and took an innovative approach to kick start a microfinance sector from
scratch.

                             Table 6. Evaluation of Bank’s Quality at Entry
      Criteria           Rating                                     Justification
Strategic Relevance                    Project objectives and components were closely aligned with
                      Satisfactory
and Approach                           country priorities and Bank’s development strategy.
                                       Project scope was ambitious, particularly considering initial
                                       grant funding and the envisaged timeframe for implementation
                                       (2 years). This constraint was later circumvented by extending
                                       the life of the project for additional five years.

                                       There was careful planning at design stage to incorporate lessons
                                       learned from previous experiences, and a pilot phase was
                                       introduced to test the different business models. Components
                                       were adequately designed to address main challenges and gaps
                      Moderately
Technical Aspects                      for development of the sector.
                      Satisfactory
                                       Incentives between project objectives and MFIs could have been
                                       better aligned to ensure growth and adequate risk management in
                                       the sector. Some examples include: i) access to MISFA funding
                                       being more effectively linked to institutional capacity and
                                       performance, ii) more cautious growth in lending, and iii)
                                       stronger inputs from MFI international partners (this was a
                                       reason that FMFB performed relatively well, given the sustained
                                       Aga Khan network support and engagement).
Poverty, Gender
and Social                             Project focused on poverty and gender impact by adequately
                      Satisfactory
Development                            targeting low income segments and women.
Aspects
                                       Compliance with Bank rules and procedures for procurement,
                                       and disbursement of funds was ensured through proper
                                       provisions in the project grant agreements.
Fiduciary Aspects     Satisfactory
                                       In addition, training and capacity building for MISFA and MFIs
                                       on these issues was incorporated in project design.

                                       Institutional coordination, roles and responsibilities within
Policy and
                                       government stakeholders and implementing agents were well
Institutional         Satisfactory
                                       established.
Aspects
                                       Implementation arrangements were clearly defined and aligned
                                       with project objectives through the different components.
Implementation
                      Satisfactory     Although the process did take longer than initially expected,
Arrangements
                                       institutional capacity building of MISFA is considered
                                       successful.

                                       Initial monitoring indicators identified were broadly defined and
Monitoring and
                      Moderately       difficult to measure. Over time and with the multiple
Evaluation
                      Unsatisfactory   amendments introduced to the project, indicators were refined
Arrangements
                                       and updated to better reflect the reality of the project.



                                                  31
                                       However, multiple changes introduced to the project monitoring
                                       framework made it difficult to assess progress towards the initial
                                       objectives. A baseline was defined in 2006 which significantly
                                       improved the results framework for the project.

                                       One shortcoming in terms of the results framework was the lack
                                       of indicators to measure progress towards effective capacity
                                       building and institutional development both in MISFA and MFIs.

                                       Risks were identified, and mitigation measures were adopted.

                       Moderately      Nonetheless, the lack of proper monitoring and evaluation
 Risk Assessment
                       Satisfactory    arrangements    -with     shortcomings  identified  during
                                       implementation- may also suggest that a more stringent risk
                                       assessment should have been conducted.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

 101. The project supervision was moderately satisfactory. The Bank team had a good
record of continuity from project design until project closing.

       Table 7. Evaluation of Bank’s Quality of Supervision
      Criteria          Rating                              Justification
                                       The Bank team focused on monitoring and supervising project
                                       outreach in terms of number of final beneficiaries of microloans,
                                       including the percentage of women with access. In addition, the
 Focus on
                                       scale up of the original project was the result of significant growth
 Development           Satisfactory
                                       in client outreach.
 Impact
                                       Outreach to excluded regions and towns was prioritized to ensure
                                       poverty/development impact beyond relatively better served areas.

                                       Support from financial management and procurement was
                                       continuous. However the lack of capacity encountered in the
                                       project implementing agency (MISFA) evidenced gaps that could
                                       have been mitigated in a timely manner during implementation.
 Supervision of        Moderately
                                       By project end, findings of misprocurement in statement of
 Fiduciary Aspects     Satisfactory
                                       expenditures (corresponding to one contract) of one MFI
                                       submitted to the Bank resulted in the return of the amount
                                       disbursed (US$291,000)23.




23
  Source: Aide-Memoire (December, 2010). The FM review during the mission found that procurement of
a consultancy contract under the ARTF did not follow the project procurement procedures for single source
selection of consultants; as a result, the contract was deemed as misprocurement and the expenditures of
US$ 291,125 incurred under the contract was considered ineligible for financing under the project




                                                   32
                                      The Bank team included an adequate mix of experience and
                                      skilled staff. Project was monitored through regular supervision
Adequacy of
                     Satisfactory     missions and progress was recorded in back to office reports and
Supervision Inputs
                                      aide-memoires.

                                      The first phase of project implementation did not prepare ISRs as
                                      this was not required for the project at the time. However, regular
                                      aide memoires and back to office reports from supervision
                                      missions provided key inputs and monitoring of project indicators.
Candor and Quality
                     Moderately       During the first phase of growth, project progress was considered
of Performance
                     Satisfactory     adequate and in line with international experiences at the time.
Reporting
                                      The lack of baseline combined with multiple changes in results
                                      indicators and project’s total funding increased the complexity of
                                      supervision.

                                      Key implementation problems resulted from information
                                      management systems in MFIs and MISFA not developing in line
                                      with the rapid growth supported by MISFA in the sector.
                                      An ambitious geographical scope added to this problem. There
                     Moderately
Risk Mitigation                       was a high pressure from donors and the international community
                     Unsatisfactory
                                      to expand the geographical coverage, even in high risk areas.
                                      As the security risk worsened, the project should have
                                      reconsidered some of the activities such as working in high risks
                                      areas.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

 102. The overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory with a well-
designed project to meet the needs of the Recipient’s population, accompanied by regular
monitoring and supervision involving the Bank’s management team. Although measures
to address some of the risks and shortcomings that appeared during the supervision
period could have strengthened overall project performance, it is important to note that
the Bank's actions at the time in terms of design and implementation were in line with
international practice in the development of microfinance, and lessons learned from
experience with previous post-conflict microfinance support models. It was not until
2008 –when the microfinance crises started to appear in a number of countries– that some
of the flaws associated with the rapid growth and weak monitoring systems in the sector
became evident.

103.    One of the issues that constrained project development towards the end was the
lack of sufficient in-house capacity in MISFA to effectively monitor performance of
MFIs given their rapid growth in outreach. The lack of adequate information and
management systems at the MFI level exacerbated the situation, and contributed to the
late identification and recognition of the major deterioration of portfolio quality in a
number of MFIs.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance



                                                 33
Rating: Satisfactory

 104.    The Recipient worked closely with the Bank throughout project preparation and
 implementation and its performance was rated Satisfactory. The close collaboration
 with the Bank demonstrated by the Recipient during implementation was a primary
 factor in the rapid growth of the project, including raising donor funding. Another
 important factor was the commitment and willingness of the government to establish
 MISFA as an independent institution to strengthen the project’s continuity and
 sustainability over time.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

 Rating:          Moderately Satisfactory

 MISFA

 105.    MISFA provided monitoring and reporting throughout project implementation.
 Since project start, and with the involvement of international consultants working on
 building MISFA’s institutional capacity, MISFA carried out basic monitoring and
 reporting activities. As the project matured, MISFA took a more active role to
 strengthen project monitoring and supervision of MFIs towards project outcomes.
 However, due to high turnover of staff and limited capacity, both at MISFA and MFI
 level, there was a misprocurement finding (related to one consulting contract) which led
 to returning US$291,125 after the closing date of the project (which

  106. The creation and further strengthening of MISFA as an apex institution was one
 of the project’s development objectives. Shortcomings in terms of MISFA’s lack of
 capacity were accounted for during the design stage. Therefore, a program of capacity
 building for MISFA was introduced as well as bringing in strong international partners
 for local MFIs (i.e. BRAC, ASA, Aga Khan).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

 Rating:           Moderately Satisfactory

 107. Recipient’s overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, based on a
combined reading of the ratings received, the demonstrated commitment to achieve
project outcomes, and the shortcomings evidenced in some of the procurement and audits
findings. The recipient implemented the project in a challenging environment, especially
with little to no institutional and technical capacity at project start, significant challenges
in attracting and retaining skills staff and experts, and a progressive deterioration in the
implementing environment conditions.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)




                                              34
108.    Jump starting a microfinance sector in a conflict affected country requires
allowing sufficient time to understand the market and to adjust previously used models
to the particular country context. At project start, it was hoped that that it would be
possible to transfer models that had worked in other countries (notably Bangladesh).
Although that approach worked initially, the experience with the microfinance crises in
several countries (e.g. Afghanistan, India) have shown the limits of this approach.
Feedback received during the ICR mission suggested that lack of adaptation of external
microfinance models and methodologies to the Afghan context, negatively impacted
project outcomes. It is now accepted that the Bangladesh solidarity group model may not
be well suited for the Afghan context. In contrast, the Aga Khan international network
did successfully support a microfinance bank, which is currently self-sustainable.

 109. Building a strong apex institution requires building strong institutional capacity
before expanding its portfolio and menu of services. MISFA’s setup as an independent
and autonomous institution was one of the key objectives of the project and the pillar for
the further development and strengthening of the microfinance industry in Afghanistan.
In the first phase of the project, and possibly until 2008, MISFA was in the process of
building up its own capacity and lacked the infrastructure and human resources to
effectively supervise MFIs activities and project performance. Building on lessons
learned from the microfinance crisis, MISFA strengthened its efforts to enhance its
institutional capacity and transformed into a competent, sustainable and independent apex
institution, which is currently fully operational under Afghan laws. This allowed MISFA
to implement difficult reforms, such as the consolidation of the sector, which are rare for
the Afghan context.

 110. Effective capacity building requires careful monitoring and design, including
tailoring the activities to the specific needs of the institutions. According to MISFA’s
own assessment of the project, the design of the capacity building programs proved to be
insufficiently effective. Capacity building consisted largely of study tours, short-term
classroom training for MFI staff and the engagement of third party advisors who did not
provide customized guidance and mentoring, but focused primarily on creating manuals
and procedures which were then not implemented. Hands-on mentoring and a ‘learning
by doing’ approach may have been more effective, although more difficult to measure.
Indicators to monitor progress of capacity building and institutional development should
be included in the results framework.

111.    Effective development of a microfinance sector requires aligning incentives
toward responsible risk management. One important element to start the development of
the microfinance sector in Afghanistan was the grant funding made available to eligible
MFIs. Grants were designed to help them build capacity and capital to support their
activities. In addition, loans were given to MFIs to onlend to final beneficiaries. No
requirement was made in terms of the MFIs’ own capital or risks to be shared among
project stakeholders in order to access grant funding. Instead, the grant was allocated
based on the MFI’s business plan and the planned outreach. Meanwhile, very strong
disbursement pressure was applied by international donors to expand outreach and




                                            35
mobilize resources to conflict affected areas. This over-stretched risk management
practices which were intended to support a more organic and prudent approach to growth.

 112. In working with fragile country states, teams need to acknowledge the limits of
microcredit compared to alternative interventions. The project and its funders should
have taken into account that microcredit in conflict-affected situations has its limits as an
intervention, notwithstanding the significant potential positive impacts. Grants (i.e.
matching grants, conditional cash transfers) could have been considered in those regions
where there was insufficient institutional capacity or security risks were too high to
ensure sustainable lending operations with close monitoring.

113.    It is critical for the project’s success to ensure the existence of proper
information/reporting systems and risk management, as well as monitoring and
supervision systems. The project incorporated significant technical assistance support
throughout the different components to build MFI capacity. From the start, the project
provided support to MFIs in implementing such systems with MISFA regularly
monitoring the progress of pre-approved business plans. However, many MFIs did not
invest in strengthening their systems, and technical assistance in this area was not
sufficiently effective, which led to weak monitoring of their portfolio and financial
soundness indicators. In the case of MISFA’s own monitoring and supervision systems,
lack of capacity throughout the early phase of the project was compensated by relying on
MFI international partners, rating agencies and auditors to monitor progress in the
project.

114.    Successful project implementation requires a solid governance structure with
clearly defined roles and responsibilities. In MISFA’s evaluation of the project,
governance was highlighted as one of the main obstacles faced during project
implementation. Governance in the project suffered at a number of levels with MISFA
relying mainly on recognized ‘best practice’ MFIs international partners to provide
oversight and good governance. At the same time, many of the international partners,
lacking capacity to oversee their programs in Afghanistan, assumed that MISFA as the
apex funding organization was fulfilling this role. As the roles were not clearly defined,
neither party effectively fulfilled the obligation (with the notable exception of FMFB).
The result was that good governance was not adequately addressed.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

None

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



                                             36
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)

A. Microfinance Fund
                                       NA                  120.90          0.00
B. Capacity Building of
Microfinance Fund Providers            NA                    1.19          0.00
C. Implementation Support              NA                    2.39
D. Strengthening Microfinance
                                       NA                   41.93
Institutions
 F. Microfinance Investment and
                                       NA                    1.52
      Support Facility for MISFA
              Total Project Costs                          168.94

     Total Financing Required                              168.94




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing     (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
                                                  120.30      167.94     140%
Fund




                                            37
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                          Table 1. Key Indicators by Project Closing Date
                                                                                June 2010
         MFIs supported by the project                                                               14
         Provinces                                                                                   26
         Districts                                                                                 110
         Active Clients                                                                        436,109
         Active Borrowers                                                                      293,405
         No. loans disbursed (cumulative)                                                    1,515,848
         Amount of loans disbursed (USD cumulative)                                      777.71 million
         No. of loans outstanding                                                              293,405
         Gross loans outstanding (USD)                                                   118,23 million
         Women Clients                                                                         260,369
         Women as % of total clients                                                              60%
         Women Borrowers                                                                       192,663
         Women as % of total borrowers                                                            66%
         Total Staff (incl. loan officers)                                                       4,047
         Source: MISFA Monthly Report


                        Table 2. Project Cost by Components (US $ Million)
                                      June 2007    Dec. 2007       Dec.-2008            Dec. 2009      June 2010    Dec 2010
Component A - Loan Fund                 55.98          66.39            91.72            118.97           120,54     120.90
Component B - Capacity Building
                                        0.60           0.69             1.15              1.18             1.19       1.19
of MF Providers
Component C - Implementation
Support (Managing MISFA                 2.39           2.39             2.39              2.39             2.39       2.39
through Oversight Consultants)
Component D - Strengthening
                                        24.00          30.56            36.97             39.44           41.93      41.93
MFIs
Component E - MISFA's Costs             1.52           1.52             1.52              1,52             1.52       1,52
                    *
Total Project Costs                     84.48       101.56             133.74            163.49           167.57     167.94
Source: MISFA */The table does not include the initial US$ 1 million disbursed under TF52081.

                      Table 3. Number of MFIs supported by MISFA by year
       Jun-04         Mar-05    Mar-06     Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09          Mar-10                            Mar-11
No.
          4              8            15          15            15               16               14          13
MFIs
Source: MISFA

       Table 4. Number of Active Borrowers1 by partner MFI (June 2004 - March 2011)
    MFI        Jun-04        Mar-05    Mar-06     Mar-07        Mar-08          Mar-09       Mar-10        Mar-11

 AFS          3,076          1,907    4,328       6,217        10,312           10,664      7,741         6,003
 AMFI         318            293      2,467       3,362        4,811            3,809       2,058
 ARMP                        4,906    16,594      30,346       28,200           20,033
 ASA                                                                            53          5,557         11,756



                                                  38
 BRAC          28,958         70,016    93,776     138,625    140,032      140,180        150,638         154,742
 CFA                                    7,100      10,430     20,380       18,587         11,662          10,264
 FINCA         1,632          4,336     12,763     37,973     58,101       33,289         10,697          7,575
 FMFB                                   16,955     18,094     27,906       33,675         42,168          43,439
 HFL                                    1,349      1,569      2,212        3,593          1,927           2,370
 MADRAC                                 886        8,249      15,358       15,452         13,853          780
 MOFAD                        710       2,501      4,499      9,069        10,722         7,536           963
 OXUS                                   616        5,621      13,406       13,169         8,594           4,922
 PARWAZ                                 3,317      7,138      14,708       7,403          4,995           2,887
 SUNDUQ                                 3,061      3,660      11,025       9,185
 WOCCU                        84        1,261      1,869      3,009        9,145          12,428          16,432
 WWI                          1,414     3,442      10,773     14,551       10,319         11,855          7,244
 TOTAL          33,984     83,666      170,416      288,425 373,080         339,278 291,709        269,377
Source: MISFA. 1/ The number of active borrowers is lower than the number of active clients reported by
the project, because active clients included clients with savings in addition to the number of clients with
active loans.
                     Table 5. Portfolio Outstanding by partner MFI -USD Million
                                       (June 2004 - March 2011)
       MFI           Jun-04    Mar-05    Mar-06    Mar-07     Mar-08     Mar-09      Mar-10         Mar-11

   AFS           0.2           0.2        0.5     0.9          2.5       3.2          2.8           2.8
   AMFI          0.1           0.1        0.7     1.2          1.1       0.8          0.3            -
   ARMP          -             2.6       10.2      19.0       18.8       13.9         -              -
   ASA           -             -          -       -            -         0.0          0.7           1.8
   BRAC          1.5           4.6        9.5      20.8       26.3       24.8        31.9           36.0
   CFA           -             -          0.9     1.7          3.5       3.2          2.0           1.8
   FINCA         0.1           0.5        1.6     7.6          9.4       4.4          1.6           1.5
   FMFB          -             -         17.3      17.8       31.7       33.4        42.7           47.5
   HFL           -             -          0.2     0.2          0.4       0.5          0.4           0.7

  MADRAC         -             -          0.1     1.2          2.7       2.4          2.5           0.2
   MOFAD         -             0.1        0.2     1.0          1.9       1.9          1.7           0.2
   OXUS          -             -          0.1     0.8          2.6       3.6          2.5           2.8
   PARWAZ        -             -          0.2     0.7          1.6       1.2          0.7           0.4
   SUNDUQ        -             -          0.3     0.7          1.7       1.3          -              -
   WOCCU         -             0.0        0.5     0.8          1.5       4.6          7.3           11.4
   WWI           -             0.1        0.4     1.3          1.7       1.6          2.1           2.2
   TOTAL         2.0           8.3       42.6      75.8       107.3       100.8      99.4           109.3
Source: MISFA




                                                      39
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                    40
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation

Supervision/ICR
Nazir Ahmad                 Research Analyst                 SASFP
Muhammad Wali Ahmadzai      Financial Management Analyst     SARFM
Deepal Fernando             Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS
David C. Freese             Senior Finance Officer           CTRFC
Asila Wardak Jamal          Consultant                       SASDI
Suhail Kassim               Private Sector Development Spe   SASFP
Parwana Wawreena Nasiri     Team Assistant                   SASFP
Kenneth O. Okpara           Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
Asta Olesen                 Senior Social Development Spec   SASDS
Rubina Geizla Quamber       Program Assistant                SASHD
Stephen F. Rasmussen        Lead Specialist                   CGP
Mohammad Arif Rasuli        Sr Environmental Spec.           SASDI
Sumriti Singh               Team Assistant                   SASFP
Rahimullah Wardak           Procurement Specialist           SARPS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                          33                      133.91
  FY06                                          15                       83.94
  FY07                                           7                       43.69
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                            Total:              55                      261.54
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                   16.30
                            Total:                                       16.30




                                           41
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      42
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                     43
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Below is a summary of the ICR prepared by MISFA.

Assessment of Outcomes

The original project design envisioned five distinct, yet interrelated outcomes four of
which remain relevant today. These outcomes are detailed in the five components of the
original project design and remain of high relevance. These components remain relevant
and form the foundation for the establishment of a permanent apex supporting strong and
independent developmental financial institutions – mainly MFIs. Microfinance continues
to play a key role in the developmental strategy for Afghanistan and is specifically high-
lighted as a developmental priority in the Afghanistan National Development Strategy
(ANDS).

Certain elements are however no longer relevant given the evolution of MISFA and may
have been envisioned as temporary and time-bound at inception. Part C for instance is no
longer relevant as MISFA is an independent and autonomous institution and no longer a
project under the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development as of March, 2006.
Part D, components 2 and 3 are also no longer relevant due to MRRD no longer
managing the facility and part 3 may have suffered from relevance of design in that study
tours and one off trainings did not have sufficient or enduring impact and did not provide
a value added proposition. Hands on mentoring and a “learning by doing? approach
would have been more effective, although more difficult to measure.

Parts A, C (no longer of relevance) and E of the original plan have largely been
successfully accomplished, although further development of capacity and institutional
strengthening continues. Parts B and D were and remain highly relevant (except for the
afore-mentioned components 2 and 3 of Part D) although implementation has been
flawed in both approach and execution. Part B was for the vast majority of MFIs
unsuccessful in its implementation. This reflects poor relevance of design, rather than the
relevance of the objective. Governance suffered at a number of levels with MISFA
relying mainly on the recognized “better practice? international NGO sponsors to provide
oversight and good governance. At the same time, many of the international NGO
sponsors, lacking capacity to oversee their programs, assumed that MISFA as the apex
funding organization was fulfilling this role. As the roles were not clearly defined, neither
party fulfilled the obligation and the result was that good governance fell into a crack and
was not adequately addressed.

This lack of clarity in responsibility was further undermined when MISFA insisted that
MFIs “spin off? as independent entities from the parent NGO. Given that the newly
independent MFIs had few or no resources of their own and limited capacity, this
approach only exacerbated the governance vacuum. Poor governance was a primary
driver in the demise of most of the MFIs which have been sunset or consolidated into
another entity.



                                             44
The design of the capacity building programs proved to be ineffective as well. Capacity
building consisted largely of study tours, short-term classroom training for MFI staff and
the engagement of third party advisors who did not provide customized guidance and
mentoring, but focused primarily on creating manuals and procedures which were then
not implemented.

The primary weakness was that little to no focus was placed on training and development
for line staff or the building of training capacity at the MFIs themselves. Programs for
loan officer and branch manager training were lacking and these staff forms the lynchpin
of any successful MFI operation. Success was largely based on the number of trainings
held and not whether they had any impact.

Focus has since changed beginning in 2009/2010 with emphasis on line staff training and
the building of training capacity by the remaining MFIs. Proper accounting, reporting and
training methodologies are key components of the 22 performance standards and where
MISFA’s Monitoring and Supervision Department finds gaps, concrete capacity building
plans are put into place and made a requirement for further funding.

In addition, the core objectives were never prioritized or weighted so that proper
emphasis was placed on each of the results framework deliverables. While sustainability
was a focus, the primary emphasis during the period 2003 to 2008 was on outreach and
scale. Proper weighting and emphasis may have improved outcomes. In addition, the
restructuring of MFIs as independent entities (outcome 2 directly undermined this
objective) without any investment or “skin in the game? by shareholders also created a
grant dependency mentality rather than any impetus towards sustainability. In late 2008,
when new MISFA management discussed business plans with the MFIs, it was told that
“MISFA covers the operating costs? and that revenues were for the MFI and “saved for a
rainy day?.

As stated previously, item (i) was flawed as it was based on short-term classroom
instruction and primarily focused at the most senior levels of management. Item (ii)
suffered from a lack of emphasis and (iii) while important also suffered from poor design
features. MISFA relied mainly on outsourcing the business planning and design process,
by procuring the services of international firms to create business plans for the MFIs,
rather than building their capacity to design and implement them. MFI leadership and
staff often had little understanding of the plans themselves and little buy-in to the process
or accountability for the results. In addition, MISFA only used business plans for funding
decisions and did not require annual updates or effectively monitoring results against plan.
Item (iv) suffered from the fact that little emphasis appears to have been placed on the
developmental nature or poverty reduction aspects of the MFI activities. Even today, few
staff have a proper understanding of the difference between the social goals of a
developmental MFI and those of a for profit money lender. This was the result of an
emphasis of fast and expansive outreach allowing for little capacity building prior to staff
being placed in the field and no emphasis in inculcating a proper developmental approach
during staff induction. Overall the objects were and remain relevant, but a number of
flaws in the project design and implementation resulted in less than optimal results. These

                                            45
issues are currently being addressed and significant progress has been made by
emphasizing proper plan development at the MFIs, no outsourcing of key functions, staff
and community outreach programs as to the developmental nature of microfinance and
realistic plans designed to achieve sustainability and requiring investments from the
shareholders as well as MISFA to insure accountability.

MISFA monitoring of MFIs

From 2003 until early 2006 data collected was primarily in relation to outreach and types
of clients, types of loans and geographic coverage. Very few of the indicators or items
that would allow for the assessment of progress towards sustainability were collected or
are available in the MISFA archives. This would have made difficult an accurate
assessment as to progress in regard to certain components of B and made assessment in
regard to Component D almost impossible.

In 2006, MISFA created a core set of performance indicators and quantitative and
qualitative ratios, etc. These generally followed the indicators recommended by
SEEP/CGAP and included a portfolio summary, income statement and balance sheet
(now referred to as a statement of financial position per IFRS rules) as well as provincial
outreach numbers by district. This reporting was standardized across all partners and
marked a significant improvement in the type of information being collected and the
breadth of information gathered.

However, it was also at this time that MISFA decided to minimize on site review and
verification. The justification was that the existing department was ineffective and it was
eliminated. From 2006 to 2008 monitoring and evaluation primarily consisted of passive
review of self-reported numbers from the MFIs, meetings with MFI senior management
to discuss performance and any anomalies in the reports and external reviews of ratings
and capacity assessments conducted by MCRIL, ACCESS, Planet Rate and others. These
external reviews often served as the basis for future funding decisions.

By mid-2008 it was apparent that significant issues were beginning to emerge in regard to
MFI performance, delinquency, growth and thereby sustainability. In late 2008 MISFA
reinstated a more robust review and oversight process initially conducting a
comprehensive portfolio audit of the vast majority of its partners. This review found that
in a number of cases PAR>30 was grossly understated and in one instance an MFI
reporting PAR>30 of 37% actually had a PAR>30 of 87% MISFA then embarked on a
process of significant review and verification of all MFI operations and reporting and this
led in turn to the creation of a dedicated Monitoring and Supervision team in 2010.
MISFA with the assistance of MEDA and using better practice from SEEP, CGAP and
ACCION developed a set of 22 Performance Standards. MFIs are assessed and graded
against these standards, where gaps are identified a plan is developed in conjunction with
the MFI and there is a timely follow-up and review to insure that agreed upon actions
have been undertaken.

Utilization

                                            46
While sustainability and outreach were considered core pillars of the successful
development of microfinance institutions, the primary focus was on outreach during the
first five years (2003-2008). This was based on two factors. The first was the “political?
need at stakeholder levels to demonstrate quick results and impact in order to build and
maintain support for microfinance as part of Afghanistan’s development strategy. The
second factor was the thought that the advantages of economies of scale would more than
compensate for some of the other factors impacting sustainability and once institutions
had reached a certain scale, they could then “go back? and address certain gaps in internal
controls and costs.

Funding decisions were made and approved based on the ability of the MFI to disburse
funds and attract clients with less focus on whether these funds were at risk at these
institutions or whether they would be able to maintain their client bases and portfolios in
the long run. Decisions were driven by annual allocations of funds from the ARTF and
the primary motivation was to disburse these funds in order to meet donor and
government goals that were based on disbursement amounts rather than developmental
impact.

Towards the end of this period, as the five year time-frame for MFIs to reach
sustainability was nearing a target that was highly optimistic given the nascent nature of
the sector, weak local capacity and insufficient availability of target market data MFIs
were encouraged to reach sustainability via growth thereby achieving both desired ends.
Plans and funding proposals were generally developed by external advisors and approved
based on other external advisor recommendations. While the models indicated that
sustainability could be reached, generally these models were predicated on extremely
high levels of growth, large disbursement to fund the portfolios and increased outreach.
The plans met MISFA, donor and government desires, but given the poor quality of data
and lack of independent review by MISFA bore no meaningful connection to the reality
on the ground.

In early 2010 MISFA further boosted its capacity to use and analyze available data by
creating a monitoring and supervision department which assesses and rates the MISFA
MFI partners based on 22 performance standards. MISFA has dedicated significant
funding and effort to building capacity in this department via its own resources and
assistance provided from certain donor programs. This capacity building will insure that
MISFA maintains a credible and effective monitoring and evaluation system both now
and in the future.




                                            47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                         48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

(In the Portal, each document can be linked to a file in IRIS or attach a new document)

  1. Project Concept Note, [month year]
  2. Project Appraisal Document, [month year]

   1. ARTF Grant Agreement [June 4, 2003]
   2. ARTF Grant Agreement [July 10, 2003]
   3. ARTF amendments to the legal grant agreement [amendments 1-10, dated March
       2004-July 2008]
   4. ARTF Project Application documents - Project: ‘Microfinance Support for
       Poverty Reduction’ [dated 2003, 2005, May 2007, Jan. 2008, Jul. 2008].
   5. “ARTF at Cross-Roads: History and the Future?. Final Report. [September 2012].
   6. CGAP, 2002. “Apex Institutions in Microfinance?. Occasional Paper No. 6,
       January 2002. Available at http://www.cgap.org/publications/apex-institutions-
       microfinance
   7. CGAP, 2010. “Growth and Vulnerabilities in Microfinance? in Focus Note No.61.
   8. Greely, M., 2005. “Aid Effectiveness and Microfinance; Lessons from
       Afghanistan. March 2005.
   9. Greely, M.; Chatuverdi, M.; 2007. “Microfinance in Afghanistan: A Baseline and
       Initial Impact Study for MISFA?. Institute for Development Studies, university of
       Sussex.
   10. CGAP, 2012. “A New Look at Microfinance in Apexes? in Focus Note No. 80.
   11. Lampe, D.; 2011. “One Step Back from the brink: Donors, Disbursement and
       Default?         in       Microbanking          Bulletin,     July         2011.
       http://www.themix.org/publications/microbanking-bulletin/2011/07/MISFA-
       disbursement-effect-on-Afghanistan-microfinance
   12. MISFA, 2012. “Microfinance Support for Poverty Reduction Project –MSRP?.
       Implementation Completion and Results Report.
   13. MISFA, 2012. “Strategic Plan 2013-2015?, developed with support from USAID
       through Financial Access for Investing in the Development of Afghanistan
       (FAIDA) Project.
   14. MISFA, 2009. “Assessing the Demand for Savings Services Among Microfinance
       Clients in Afghanistan? by Ximena Arteaga.
   15. MRRD et al, 2006. “Mid-term Review of the Microfinance Sector and MISFA in
       Afghanistan?. October 18, 2006. Commissioned by MRRD, MoF, and MISFA
       donors.
   16. World Bank, 2012. Interim Strategy Note for Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for
       the period FY12-FY14?. International Development Association and International
       Finance Corporation. March 9, 2012.


                                           49
                       60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                               70°E                                                                               75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                        U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                 Dushanbe                                                   hob




                                                                                                    Am
                                                                                                     uD
                                                                                                          ar y                                                                                                                                                                                  Murg
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                       TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                          Chardzhev                                                                                      To                                                               TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                   To                                                    ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kulob                                                       To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                                Dushanbe                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                          ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                         Qurghonteppa
                              AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                              h
                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                              JAWZJAN                                                                    ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pya
                                                                                                                                                           BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 KUNDUZ                                                                          mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯ ¯                                              Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                    Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                            ¯                     Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                                                  Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                      ¯                                                     TAKHAR                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                       Saripul                                                                                                                                        u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (7690 m)
                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                        Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                              ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯                                                  K
                                                                                                                  Meymaneh
                                                             Mary                                                                                                        ¯
                                                                                                                                                                   SAMANGAN                                         ¯N
                                                                                                                                                                                                               BAGHLA
                                                                                                     ¯ R YA
                                                                                                    FA    ¯B                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ndu
                                                                                                                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I R      d                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯o
                                                                                                                                                                                               eQ                                    J                                         Chitral
                            To
                                                                                                                                SAR IP UL
                                                                                                                                SARIP                                                      y                                              n
               35°N
                        Mashad
                                                                                                            Mor
                                                                                                                  gh¯                                                            Da
                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                         a-                         Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       H        PAiN             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NURISTAN
                                                                                                                    ab
                                                                                     ¯ D G H¯
                                                                                    BA      IS                                                                                                          ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯ ¯ Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KAPISA     ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        35°N
                                     P                                                                                                                                                              ¯
                                          a                    Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                             Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯¯                 PARWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯                                       Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯ ¯
                                               r o                                                                                                                                                                  Charıkar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ¯¯ ¯   LAGHMAN KUNAR         To
                                                   p a                          e                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                        R a n g                                                                                  ¯N
                                                                                                                                                            ¯ M YA
                                                        m i s u s                                                                                                                                              ¯    KABUL        Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯          Mardan
                                                                                                                        Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                 ¯                         BA                                                 KABUL
                                                      Herat
                                                         ¯
                                                                          Har¯
                                                                               ud
                                                                             ır¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                               WA R D A K                             ¯ Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Meydan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ¯                       Khyber Pass
                                    ¯T                                                                                                                                                                            LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                                 HERA                                                               GHOR                                                                                                                                                                 To Peshawar
                                                                                                                            DAY KUNDI                                                                                 Pol-e ‘Alam
                                                                                                                                Nili                                                                                        PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    us
                                                                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                 G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ind
               ISLAMIC                                                                                                                         He
                                                                                                                                                  lm                      I                                                       KOWST                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kowst          Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
               REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                        Sharan
                                                                     ¯h
                                                                  Fa
                                                                    ra                                                     ¯ZGAN
                                                                                                                         URU
               OF IRAN                                                      ¯H
                                                                       FA R A                                              ¯ Kowt
                                                                                                                        Tarın
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0                  50             100 Miles
                                         ¯t
                                                                                                                                                                                          P A K T¯ ¯
                                         u
                                      ¯r
                                     Ha
                                                          Farah
                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IKA
                                                                                                                                                   ¯ BUL
                                                                                                                                                  ZA
                                                                                                                                                   Qalat
                                                                                                                                                      ¯
                                                                              h
                                                                              as
                                                                            Kh¯




                                                                                                                                              ak
                                                                                                                                            rn¯
                                                                                                                                          Ta

                          Hamun-e
                           ¯ ¯
                            Saberı
                            ˛¯ ¯
                                                                                      Lashkar Gah
                                                                                               ¯           Arghandab
                                                                                                                    Kandahar
                                                                                                                          ¯

                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AFG H ANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                Zhob

                                                          Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                 Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               N¯  ¯Z
                                                IMRO                         HILMAND                       ¯R
                                                                                                     KANDAHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
                                                  Helm                                                                                                 To
                                                       and                                                                                             Quetta                                                                                                                              MAIN ROADS
               30°N
                                              Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RAILROADS
                                               Zereh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 33358R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30°N
OCTOBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         70°E
