Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6096-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL LIPORT
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 29, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I Birr = US$0.483     -      1 US$ - Birr 2.07
WEIGHTS AN17 MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)            a  3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)      -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)       -  2.20 pounds (lb)
I metric ton (m.ton)  -  2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ethiopia
July 8 - July 7



FOR OCFICIAL USE ONLY
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -     African Development Bank
CFDD    -     Community Forestry and Soil Conservation Development
Department
EASC    -     Ethiopian Audit Services Corporation
FTI     -     Forestry Training Institute
ICB     -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB     -     Local Competitive Bidding
LIB     -     Limited International Bidding
NRMD    -     Natural Resources Conservation and Development Main
Department
PA      -     Peasant Association
PCC     -     Project Coordinating Committee
PMU     -     Project Management Unit
PPF     -     Project Preparation Facility
M&E     -     Monitoring and Evaluation
MED     -     Monitoring and Evaluation Division
MOA     -     Ministry of Agriculture
SC      -     Service Cooperative
SFD     -     State Forests Conservation and Development Department
SIDA    -     Swedish International Development Agency
SRC     -     Silvicultural Res.?ar'eh Center
SOE     -     Statement of Expenditu-e
UDA     -     Urban Dwellers' Association
UNSO    -     United Nations Sahelian Office
WCME    -     Wood and Charcoal Production and Marketing Enterprise
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rmcipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ETHIOPIA
Forestry Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
I& BACKGROUND                        .                           1
A.* Introduction . .......................... ...................    1
B. General Background ...1
C. The Forestry Sub-Sector                                   2
The Setting                                               2
Institutional Setting .................  3
Institutional Relationships                               4
GOE Policy for Forestry Development                       5
Forestry Development Projects                             6
Bank Assistance to the Agricultural Sector                7
II.  THE PROJECT                                                  7
A. Project Rationale                                          7
B. The Project Area ...................................    9
C. General Project Description                              IC
D. Detailed Features .....11
State Forestry Plantation Program           -            11
Community Forestry Program .14
Forestry Research ...                                    18
Training                                                 19
Project Implementation               ....                19
Technical Assistance ................................   19
E. Environmental Impact ....                                20
III.  PROJECT COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT                                              20
A. Project Costs                   ....                     20
B. Financing                                                22
C. Procurement ............... ..... .                      22
D. Disbursement                                             25
E. Accounts and Audits                                      26



Page No.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....eo*ee..................  e       26
Coordination                                                  26
Project Management .......*. ........... *                    27
Operational Procedures   ............................         27
Forestry Research ...............                          - 29
Forestry Training                        ...............      30
Road Building                         .......  30
Annual Work Program .                                         30
Monitoring and Evaluation                                     31
Mid-Term Rewiew                           .............0      31
V.  PRODUCTION MARRETING, PRICES AND COST RECOVERY ..........         31
A. Plantation Yields                                              31
Be Production .........32
C. Marketing, Pricing and Cost Recovery                          33
Marketing                                                     33
Pricing and Cost Recovery ..........................          34
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  -.....................         35
A. Benefits                                                       35
B. Economic Analysis                                             36
C. Sensitivity Analysis .0.00.0....... .........--.e-.-          37
D. Government Cash Flow                                          37-
E. Project Risks ....37
VII.  AGREMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................           38



ETHIOPIA
Forestry Project
Annexes
I. TRAINING
II. FOREST VILLAGES
III.  PLANTATION PRODUCTION
Table 1     -     Total Production
IV.  FUELWOOD PRICES
Table 1     -     Estimated Economic Value of Firewood.
Table 2     -     Fuelvood Depot Prices for Addis Ababa and
Surrounding Towns.
Table 3     -     Average Long-Run Production Cost of Wood.
V. COSTS AND BENEFITS
Table 1     -      Community Forestry
Table 2     -     Upgrading Addis Plantations
Table 3     -     New Plantations
Table 4     -     Total Costs and Benefits
VI. PROJECT COSTS
Table 1     -     New Plantations, Addis Ababa, Support Services
Table 2     -     New Plantations, Addis Ababa, Field Operations
Table 3     -     New Plantations, Bahir Dar, Support Services
Table 4     -     New Plantations, Bahir Dar, Field Operations
Table 5     -     Upgrading of Addis Plantations, Support Services
Table 6     -     Upgrading of Addis Plantations, Field Operations
Table 7     -     Community Forestry
Table 8     -     Research
Table 9     -     Project Implementation Management
Table 10    -     Project Implementation, Technical Assistance
Table 11    -     Project Implementation, Training
T'able 12    -    Project Implementation, Meritoring and Evaluation
lable 13    -     Project Components by Year
Tuble 14    -      Summary account by Projec4 Component
Table 15    -     Summary Accounts by Year
Ta.le 16    -     Project Components by Year
Tatle 17    -      Seedling Production Costs, Community Forestry
Table 18    -      Seedling Production Costs, Plantations



VII. SCHEDULE OF DISBURSENENTS
Table I     -     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
Table 2     -     Disbursement Profile
Table 3     -     Incremental Government Cash Flow
VIII. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IX. LIST OF MATERIALS AVAILABLE IN THE IMPLEMExNTATION VOLUME
X. CHART 30398A - Proposed Project Organization
CHART 30398B - Ministry of Agriculture, Present Organisation
MAP:  IBRD 19596 Project Areas



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Ethiopia
Beneficiary:     Natural Resources Conservation and Development Main
Department of Ministry of Agriculture
Amount:          U.S.S45.0 million
Terms:           Standard IDA Terms
Project DEscription:
The project would increase the supplies of fuelvood and
building poles to Addis Ababa, and Bahir Dar by
establishing plantations and upgrading existing
plantations in nearby areas. Approaches used would be
through direct Government control and management of
plantation operations and thr¢ugh mobilizing the
cooperation of members of Peasant and Urban Dwellers'
Associations in community tree planting activities. The
project would finance the establishment of 11,000 ha of
state forest plantations and the upgrading of 13,000 ha of
existing plantations occuring in large Blocks. Community
forestry activities would consist of: (i) state supervised
forestry activities for the establishment of 1,600 ha of
new plantations ai-d upgrading of 1,000 ha of existing
plantations; (ii) self-help forestry activities for the
establishment of about 8,500 ha of new plantations and
upgrading about 2,700 ha; (iii) planting around homesteads
and public buildings amounting altogether to about 250 ha.
The project would also support applied forestry research
%imed at improving forest plantation technology and
in-service and post graduate training to update staff
knowledge and provide the necessary graduate forestry
staff. A Project Management Unit would be established,
which would be assisted by a Project Coordinating
Committee. Monitoring and Evaluation would be supported
within the Ministry of Agriculture.  Technical Assistance
would be financed in forest management and research,
monitoring and evaluation and financial management. The
project would finance civil works, vehicles, machinery,
road construction, forest nurseries, office equipment, and
incremental operating costs.



- ii -
The Project aims at ensuring community participation in
plantation protection and encouraging tree planting.
Marketing and pricing arrangements would be changed so as
to provide incentives that would encourage planting.
Benefits and Risks
The principal benefit would be increased fuelvood
production through state and comwunity forestry plantation
initiatives. The total incremental production would he
about 881,000 m3 annually at maximum production which
would reduce the current deficit in the project area, and
would help to provide soil and environmental protection
to sustain agricultural production.
The main risks of the project are related to the ability
to introduce protection for the forest resource, which has
been regarded as free good for some years; the possibility
that Associations prepared to cooperate in community
forestry activities may not reach targets expected; and
the maintenance of effective incentive prices and free
marketing for a proportion of the fuelwood produ -ed. To
lessen these risks, the project would provide for
strengthened forestry extension services to motivate
community participation in forestry services and
protection and to monitor prices and marketing
continuously. The project would maintain a flexible
approach permitting greater emphasis and support
during implementation for those activities whieh
prove most successful.



- iii -
Estimated Cost
Local        Foreign        Total
U.S.$ Million
1. New Plantations                          13.0          5.0           18.0
2. Upgrading Plantations                    10.0          3.7           13.7
3. Community Forestry                        2.7           1.2            3.9
4. Research                                  1.8          0.1             1.9
5. Project Management                        2.6          2.0            4.6
6. Technical Assistance                      0.1           1.0            1.1
7. Training                                  0.4          0.8             1.2
8. Monitoring and Evaluation                 0.5           0.3            0.8
Total Base Costs                        .31.1             14.1          45.2
Physical Contingencies                       2.5           1.0            3.6
Price Contingencies                         10.7           2.7           13.3
Total Costs a/                              44.3 b/       17.8           62.1
Financing Plan
IDA                                         27.2         17.8           45.0
Government                                  17.1          -              17.1
44.3          17.8          62.1
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit
IBRD FY            86     87      88     89      90     91      92     93
Annual              -    3.0    7.8    9.8    9.8    7.8    4.6    2.2
Cumulative          -    3.0   10.8   20.6   30.4   38.2   42.8   45.0
Economic Rate of Return         16X
Staff Appraisal Report      Report NGc  6096-ET           Dated May 29, 1986
Map IBRD No. 19596
a/ Includes U.S.$445,000 financed under a PPF
b/ Includes taxes and duties of $7.0 million



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKOROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      In Ethiopia forests and plantations are important in mai-Laining
environmental stability, providing woodfuel and building poles for domestic
use and as sources of industrial raw materials. The Energy Assessment
Report 1/ of 1984 pointed out that the demand for woodfuel in Ethiopia was
far in excess of the sustainable supply and that an intensive effort was
required to establish woodfuel plantations in order to redress the effects
of over-exploitation and degradation of existing resources and to provide
additional supplies.
1.02      The Government of Ethiopia (GOE) is aware of the alarming rate at
which forest resources are disappearing and recognizes the need for
substantial investment to meet the energy requirements of both rural and
urban populations. The proposed project is an outcome of the
recommendations of the Energy Assessment Report, reviews of on-going
forestry development activities and dialogue between GOE and the Bank on
forestry and energy issues. Project preparation was initiated in October
1984 and a preparation report was produced by GOE in cooperation with
FAO/CP on February 18, 1985. This report was used as the basis for an
application to IDA for assistance in the implementation of a project for
the development of forest plantations for woodfuel production. The project
was appraised in November 1985 2/.
B. General Background
1.03      Ethiopia has a rugged topography.  One-third of the country
consists of a mountainous plateau which is intersected by the Rift Valley
and surrounded by tracts of low-lying semi-desert populated by nomadic
pastoralists. Nearly all large rivers flow into the Nile and this system
forms the main drainage network. The climate is determined mainly by
altitude. The high plateau has a temperate climate throughout the year and
only the lowlands experience hot, often arid, tropical conditions. The
main rainy season extends from May or June to the end of September and
rainfall varies from 200 mm in the north to about 1,600 mm in the
southwest. Tree cover is closely correlated with altitude and
temperature. The natural vegetation of the lowlands is open savannah
woodland and the highlands carry closed forests which give way to savannah
steppe land at the higher elevations.
1/ Ethiopia: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector. UNDP/Wqirld Bank
Energy Sector Assessment Program. 4741-ET - July 1984.
2/ The appraisal mission consisted of A. Pritchard, G. MukEmi, A. Hu, R.
Rowe (World Bank) and F. Werner, N. Chatterjee (Consultan,: -



1.04      The population of Ethiopia is estimated to be 42 million (1984)
of which 89% is rural and 11% urban. The overall population density is 34
inhabitantslkm2 but this figure masks large regional differences. The
population density ranges from 8 to 1Q/km2 in the lowlands to about 75/km2
in the highlands around Addis Ababa. The rate of population increase Is
about 2.9% annually.
1.05      Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita GNP of US$110 in
1984 is one of the i2ast developed countries in the world. Agriculture is
the source of livelihood for most of the population. It also accounts for
50% of GDP and is tte source of 90% of merchandlsed exports (mainly coffee,
hides and other animal products). Agricultural production in the dryer
areas is always uncertain and virtually all crop production is in the
highlands. The most important crops are cereals, pulses and oil seeds.
The livestock population of Ethiopia is larger than that in any other
country in Africa. Most livestock are in the highlands and are grazed on
communal areas. They provide draught power for arable farming and
contribute about 20% of the gross value of agricultural production. Over
the last decade, growth in the agricultural sec.or (1.1%) has been
insufficient to support economic growth, forestall increases in consiner
food prices, and improve overall food supply.
C. The Forestry Sub-Sector
The Setting
1.06      There are no reliable surveys of forest inventories.  However,
estimates put the country's closed canopy forest cover at 2.7% - down from
40% at the beginning of the century. It is also estimated that accessible
forests are disappearing at the rate of 100,000 ha annually. There is an
urgent need for rapid corrective actions to prevent the total disappearance
of the remaining forests. The natural forest resource now consists of
about 3 million ha of clceed forest, 20 million ha of woodland savannah and
steppe, 2 million ts of open acacia forests and 0.5 million ha of bamboo.
Standing volume is low in the open forests and in the vicinity of the urban
areas they have been over-exploited for fuelwood and charcoal production.
About 150,000 ha within forest areas have been designated as forest
reserves and are the responsibility of the State Forest Conservation and
Development Department. The other forest areas are under de-facto control
of the rural arnd urban associations (para 1.19).
1.07      Forestry plastations, mainly of Eucalyptus, are estimated to
total about 250,000 ha, of which about 20,000 ha are located near Addis
Ababa and 60,000 ha in the vicinity of other towns. Originally established
and managed by the private sector, plantation management passed tG the
rural and urban associations, in 1975. Because of poor plantation
management, production subsequently gradually declined to less than half of
the potential.
1.08      An estimated 80,000 people currently illegally remove wood from
the plantations for sale in Addis Ababa. Although a proportion of these
people are living within the plantation areas, the majority travel each, day
from Addis Ababa to collect wood. According to GOE, the income realized
from the sale of wood is, for the majority, additional to other income and



-3-
is not the basis of subsistence or the only source of support. This
activity should be curtailed as soon as possible.
1.09      According to GOE estimates, which are based on traded products,
forestry provides about 2% to GDP. Howevet, the inclusion of the value of
fuelvood at current market prices, places the true contribution of forestry
to be about 7%. About 24 million mJ of wood are produced annually, of
which some 10% is used for industrial and building purposes and the
remainder for fuelwood and charcoal for domestic use. About 35,000 people
are directly employed in the forestry sector.
1.10      Over 93% of Ethiopia's present energy supply is-from hiomass,
two-thirds of which is in the form of crop residues and dung, the other
third from fuelwood and charcoal. Almost all of the biomass energy supply
is for household cooking and heating. Annual demand for woodfuel is
estimated at 42 million m3 or about twice the present annual production.
Prices of wood fuels have risen dramatically in the past decade, and are
now probably the highest in Africa. Scavenging for fuelwood in
agricultural zones, consequent deforestation and soil erosion, and the use
of dung and crop residues as fuel threatens sustainable agriculture in manY
areas.
Institutional Setting
1.11      Ethiopia is divided into 15 administrative regions, 102 Awrajas
(districts) and 581 Woredas (sub-districts).
1.12      In 1984, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) divided the country
into eight agro-ecological zones. The zonal administration headed by a
General Manager is responsible for implementing approved work programs, and
contains representatives of all four Main Departments (Chart 30398B).
Central MOA staff are responsible for budget provisions, guidelines,
approval of work plans, and monitoring and evaluation as their principal
functions. The Natural Resources Conservation and Development Main
Department MNRMD) of MOA is responsible for forestry and soil
conservation. NRMD consists of five departments, three semi-autonomous
agencies and a number of service units. Professional foresters (degree or
equivalent) numbered 120 in 1984.  About 400 technical staff (diploma or
equivalent), 850 lower-level technicians and clerks and 4,000 permanent
field workers comprised the remainder of NRMD staff. A total of 47 are
receiving training to BSc level and above at institutions abroad. Compared
to needs, graduate foresters, research workers and forestry teachers are in
short supply.
1.13      The State Forest Conservation and Development Department (SFD) is
responsible for demarcating, conserving and managing designated state
forests. Most of the reforestation projects (including protection forests)
and forest development programs are implemented through SFD. Operations
have been constrained by lack of funds, transport and trained staff, and
frequent changes In leadership have affected planning and policy decision
making, but nevertheless, some reforestation activities have been
undertaken in drought-prone catchment areas and plantaton establishment has
been successfully initiated for some urban centers. In order to enable SFD



-4
to manage an expanded forestry program, management and planning functions
will need to be strengthened and its authority over plantatfons and forest
areas increased.
1.14      The Community Forestry and Soil Conservation Development
Department (CFDD) was formed by the amalgamation of the Community Forestry
Department with the Soil and Water Conservation Department. CFDT is
responsible for mobilizing farmers and PAs for rural forestry conservatlon
and development by providing information through the media, technical
advice and training and by establishing demonstration nurseries.  The aim
is to assist PAs to establish and manage plantations to meet local demands
for futelwood. CFDD is understaffed and requires to he properly integrated
into the new zonal administrative structure with the same status as other
Departments. Successful operation will depend on the availability of
adequate staff, equipment and transportation and considerable strengthening
of monitoring and evaluation (para.1.26).
1.15      The Silvicultural Research Center (SRC) undertakes research on
nursery techniques, silviculture of indigenous trees, species trials at
higher altitudes, natural regeneration of forests, agroforestry etc., with
the aim of providing technical and scientific information for use by the
forestry services. SRC also conducts research on seed production and
storage and supplies seeds for reforestation programs.  SRC is small (6 ha)
and being in the suburbs of Addis Ababa, it is not ideally situated for
forestry research. It has suffered from lack of funds and equipment but is
now scheduled to receive bilateral assistance which will enable an overall
forestry research plan to be produced, and past experimental results to be
analysed.
1.16      The Forestry Training Institute (FTI) is situated at Wondo Genet
and is the only specialized forestry training institution in Ethiopia. PTI
offers a two year diploma course, and has a yearly output of about 70
students which satisfies the country's need for Forest Rangers. There is
no degree level training in forestry in Ethiopia.
1.17      Other NRMD departments and units are the land Use Planning and
Regulatory Department, the Wood Utilization Research Center and the
Wildlife Conservation Organization. The semi-autonomous agencies are the
National Gum production and Marketing Enterprise, the Sawmills and
Joineries Enterprise and the Wood and Charcoal Production and Marketing
Enterprise. The latter enterprise is the only institution legally
permitted to procure woodfuel from plantations and market it in Addis Ababa
through its network of depots.
Institutional Relationships
1.18      At the grassroot level, the main institutions dealing with
forestry management are the Peasant Associations (PAs), the Urban Dwellers'
Associations (UDAs) and SFD. With the land reform decree of 1975, all
rural land became the property of the Ethiopian people. Farmers were
organized into PAs, each'with 200-400 farming families having usufruct
rights for up to 10 ha per farm family. With respect to forestry, the main
PA responsibilities are to: (i) administer and conserve soil, water and
forests;'(ii) exclude forests from land distribution; and (iii) follow the



-5-
land use directives of GOZ. IJDAs were established under the Proclamation
for the Public Ownership of Urban Lands (1976), with duties and
responsibilities corresponding to those of PAs.
1.19      The proclamation by which PAs and UDAs were established did not
give the necessary authority to SFD to enable efficient centralized
conservation practices and forest management to be introduced. A GnE
order, instructing SFD to take over all forest areas larger than 80 ha was
not recognized either by Regional, Awraja and Woreda administrations or the
PAs as it was not issued as a legal regulation. With responsibilities
somewhat obscure, PA and UDA assumed control of forest and plantation
areas, but since PAs and UDAs were neither technically competent nor
conscientious enough to manage the resources, the forests became a free
good to be used and abused by the general population.
1.20      This situation was addressed by the Forestry Proclamation (No.
192) of 1980, under which NRMD is responsible for ensuring proper
protection, development and rational utilization and management of forest
and wildlife resources of the country. Each PA and UDA is required to
develop and conserve its own forests and to plant trees within its locality
in areas designated by SFD as forest reserve. Each PA and UDA is also
required to implement directives concerning conservation, protection,
development and utilization of forests. The proclamation does little to
clarify the situation and since SFD can only take control of forest land bv
declaring it to be forest reserve, effective control remains with PAs and
UDAs and destruction of the forest and plantation reserves has continued.
Forest protection and involvement of the local population in this process
is of extreme importance. The project would finance a number of pilot
efforts to generate such support (paras.2.22 to 2.36).
GOE Policy for Forestry Development
1.21      The main policy documents are the Proclamation of 1980 (No. 192),
and the draft 10-year Perspective Plan. The major policy statements call
for:
(i) rational use and management of natural resources; and
(ii) mobilization and coordination of the efforts of the population in
the development, protection and management of the country's
forests and wildlife resources.
1.22      The forestry section of the draft 10-year Perspective Plan, aims
at the establishment of a plantation area of 2.9 million ha, demarcation of
39,000 kms of forest, and inventory surveys on 475,000 ha. Investments in
forestry and natural resources (about Birr 1.4 billion or USS690 million)



-6-
over the Plan period, would represent about 5% of total investment
outlays. In addition, Birr 7 million (US$3.4 million) would be allocated
for recurrent costs. These targets are unrealistically high. They would
require an annual planting program of 290,000 ha, whereas the total
achieved in 1984, with bilateral aid support, was 18,000 ha by SFD and the
equivalent of 28,000 ha through community forestry methods. However, the
Plan targets are used as guidelines and the NRMD annual targets are set to
conform with the capabilities of the forestry agenciee.
1.23      A strategy for forestry development is outlined in the Energy
Assessment Report (para.1.01). The main features are the establishment of
peri-urban woodfuel plantations for the towns, and the development of
woodlots and agroforestry practices on a massive scale in the rural areas.
A potentially achievable target by 1992 was considered to be 195,000 ha.
This would require an annual plantation program, 60% greater than that
achieved in 1984. The present project would provide only 11% of the
targetted total area of new plantations. The magnitude of the problem is
enormous and GOE recognises the need to revise the forestry development
plans in accordance with achievable targets. Rapid responses to forestry
problems are impossible, and it is t %ntlal to begin tree planting as soon
as possible, without waiting for plat, evisions.
Forestry Development Projects
1.24      External assistance in the forest sector has mainly been directed
towards protective reforestation, research, training and technical
assistance, with some larger scale afforestation projects supported by the
African Development Bank (ADB) and bilateral donors.  Experience has shown
that with some technical assistance, SFD staff can successfully manage the
plantation programs. As part of these programs, forest villages have been
established for people displaced as a result of the plantation activites
and plantation protection has been organized and forest guards employed.
To date, no damage to these new plantations has been reported either from
illegal cutting or as a result of grazing by livestock.
1.25      The Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) provides
assistance to the Forestry Training Institute at Wondo Genet and is in the
process of setting-up a National Center for Community Forestry at Mertule
Mharyam to provide training to a wide range of forestry staff, extension
agents and peasant farmers.
1.26      GOE sponsored schemes to reforest exploited high altitude forests
have been started in recent years. PAs have also been encouraged to enter
into replanting activities and have planted about 22,000,000 seedlings each
year since 1980 (equivalent to 13,750 ha) in blocks, rows and around
homesteads.  In addition, 50,000 people have been trained in community
forestry techniques and 680 nurseries constructed in PAs. Unfortunately,
no monitoring of these efforts was undertaken and no plantation records
were kept, therefore the success of the planting efforts cannot be
estimated. It is known however, that the seedlings provided were not
always of species adapted to the planting sites and seed shortages
prevented the production of specific seedlings (eg. fruit trees) requested
by farmers. The programs paid limited attention to agro-forestry, the use
of multipurpose trees and the development of effective forestry extension
services.



-7-
Bank Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.27      The Bank has considerable experience in lending for agricultural
development in Ethiopia. Two Minimum Package Projects (Cr.416-ET and
Cr.1088-ET) were aimed at increasing agricultural production in the
highlands. Coffee Projects (Cr.290-ET and Cr 1429-ET) supported
processing, cultural practices and disease control, and the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation's storage and marketing activities were strengthened
under Credit 789-ET. Other projects were for Drought Rebabilitation and
Land Settlement (Cr.485-ET), Irrigation (Cr.707-ET), Agricultural Research
(Cr.1521-ET) and Drought Recovery (Cr.1576-ET). An IFAD project is aiming
to strengthen the operational capacity of the Agricultural and Industrial
Bank and channel funds for on farm development through cooperatives.
1.28      Performance of agricultural projects has been mixed.  Some
projects were adversely affected by the security situation. Implementation
delays resulted from management problems, material shortages, inadequate
budgetary support and marketing restrictions which removed price incentives
for production. In recent years, the agricultural lending program has been
adversely affected by differences between GOE and the Bank on agricultural
policy issues. In spite of the deepening food crisis GOE policies have
constrained agricultural growth by placing restrictions on marketing and
producer prices, and mitigating against adoption of farm technologies
(mainly fertilizers and improved seeds) because of lack of incentives. The
Bank is pressing for multi-chance marketing and pricing, secure land tenure
and increased efficiency within the agricultural support services. This
would re-establish the incentives which are essential to the increased
agricultural production. In spite of these problems, dialogue between GOE
and the Bank has been constructive and in general the implementation of
ongoing agricultural projects compares favorably with that of similar
projects elsewhere in eastern Africa.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale
2.01      The chronic shortage of fuelwood, which is the preferred energy
source in Ethiopian households, is a major national problem. Due to its
increasing scarcity, the retail prices for fuelwood in Addis Ababa have
risen to about Birr 80/m3 and fuel costs now absorb about 25X of the annual
per capita income 3t. In rural areas, and increasingly in towns, dung and
agricultural residues are being used to replace woodfuel instead of being
returned to the soil. The resulting losses in terms of soil organic matter
and fertility are in the long run likelv to result in significant
reductions in crop production.
2.02      The need for tree planting to provide additional supplies of wood
and to replace the natural forest cover has been recognized for some time.
Before the revolution there was a tradition of tree planting which involved
3/ Ethiopia, Forestry Development Project, Preparation Report FAO/CP.
Program - February 18, 1985, page 20.



-8-
considerable investment in plantations near to some of the urban centers.
The scale of recent Investment has been too small to make an appreciable
contribution to fue.wood supplies. Large scale OE managed plantations,
sited in areas unsuitable for agriculture are needed to supply wood in the
medium-term to urban populations. Since some families will be living In
the areas selected for plantations, it will be essential that plantation
schemes include provision for their relocation and alternative employment
opportunities.
2.03      Degradation of existing plantations is a direct result of
ineffective protection and management by PAs and UDAs, which, in the face
of rises in woodfuel prices, have been unable to prevent illegal harvesting
of the resource (para.1.20). However, incentives for protection have been
completely lacking and the situation has been exacerbated by:
(i)   ambiguity of laws and regulations allocating responsibility for
plantations;
(ii)   failure by GOE to provide UDAs and PAs with advice and resources
for protection and management;
(iii)   tolerance by PAs and UDAs of wood gathering by individuals who
were previously commercial fuelwood producers and who have no
other source of livelihood; and
(iv)   the dependence of Addis Ababa on the nearby plantations for
energy supplies.
Upgrading the plantations would increase production of wood but this must
be accomplished in a manner that would ensure both the introduction of
efficient management and protection on the one hand and the least
disruption to the supplies of energy to Addis Ababa on the other.
2.04      In the long-term, new approaches to forestry and wood production
are required which elicit the active participation of communities in forest
protection and management. Substantial changes in attitude will be needed
both within the local communities and the forestry agencies, which must be
brought about by intensive training, education, forestry extension and the
development of plantation operations in which individuals and communities
can profitably participate. A flow of monetary incentives to those
participating in plantation schemes would help to foster commitment to
plantations and trees. This will depend on an adeouate organizational
structure, ready access to markets and attractive prices for forest
products. Any development costs incurred by GOE in setting up plantation
schemes could be recovered from profits generated from the sale of
plantation grown wood.
2.05      Much of the external support for the forestry sector has been in
terms of technical assistance (para.1.24) and only recently have donor
agencies begun to provide finance for tree planting. Even so, the present
activities are small relative to the size of the problems of deforestation
and unless larget scale interventions are made, the remaining tree cover
will disappear. 0OE is anxious to launch a major forestry program and to
establish efficient arrangements for the management and orderly
exploitation of forest resources. The World Bank group is well qualified



-9-
to assist GOE in the implementation of such a program, having had wide
experience in the establishment of community and state run forestry
plantations and with access to models used in India, Nepal, Malawi, Kenya
etc., which could be adapted to Ethiopian conditions. The World Bank also
has a role to play in bringing about the major policy reforms in community
forestry, marketing and prices on which successful implementation of
rorestry projects will depend; and in providing the leadership and
direction among the donor community which future developments in forestry
will require.
2.06      The initial IDA investment would be on a modest scale.  This is
necessitated by shortages of trained Ethiopian personnel and the
difficulties associated with the introduction of innovative approaches
aimed at involving farming communities in fuelwood production, developing
new techniques for planting and protecting trees, and introducing efficient
forest management practices. Successful models for development could be
replicated throughout Ethiopia at a later date. The proposed project would
provide a mixture of components, some to be Implemented directly by the
forestry authorities and a smaller proportion to be implemented by local
communities.
B. The Project Area
2.07      Project activities aimed at providing urban woodfuel supplies
would be concentrated in th_: priority areas around the cities of Addis
Ababa and Bahir Dar both of which are fuelwood deficit areas. The
community forestry activities would be linked to the urban markets and
would be undertaken in the Bahir Dar and Menagesha Awrajas which surround
the two main cities (Map 19596). The total population of the project area
is almost 3.0 million, of which 1.6 million live in the two cities. This
represents about 7% of the total population of Ethiopia, and 32% of the
urban population. Subsequent forestry projects would benefit from the
experience gained in operating at a site (Bahir Dar) remote from the
capital city.
2.08      The area or existing plantations of eucalyptus to be upgraded
under the project are located mainly to the east, west and north of Addis
Ababa. Slopes vary from 20 to 50 degrees and the area is erosion prone.
The total area is estimated to be 20,000 ha with an average growing stock
of 118 m3/ha. The plantations have deteriorated over the past ten years,
partly due to age, but mostly as a result of excessive and uncontrolled
cutting.
2.09      The area for new plantations to the north-east of Addis Ababa is
located immediately to the north of the site now being reforested with
assistance of ADB. It consists of a series of hills and ridges which are
used for grazing. Some agricultural crops are grown but the steep slopes
are unsuited for cultivation. The new plantations site to the west of
Bahir Dahr is a plateau with vegetation consisting of rough grazing and
patches of woodland with occasional rock out-crops. It has already been
designated as forest land.



- 10a-
2.10      Precise information on the sites for new plantations and the
existing plantations was not available at appraisal, and more information
is required on land-use, land availability for forestry and the number of
families occupying potential plantation sites. IDA has approved a project
preparation facility (PPF) advance which would finance the necessary aerial
and socio-economic studies which will provide these data. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the studies would be completed and an
analysis submitted to IDA by June 30, 1987. Since the planting program
would not commence before March 1988, this would be sufficient time to
enable the detailed plantation plans to be prepared. In the meantime,
there is sufficient data available from existing aerial photos and SFD
records to permit project activities to begin immediately in parts of the
project area.
C. General Project Description
2.11      The groiect would be part of a long-term forestry program aimed
primarily at reversing the process of forest and plantation degradation and
increasing the supply of woodfuel and building poles in Ethiopia. Existing
technology would be used to establish and rehabilitate the existing
plantations and new institutional arrangements would be developed to
involve PAs and UDAs in fuelwood production, forest management and forest
protection.
2.12      The project would be implemented over six years.  The first year
of which would be used for necessary mobilization, planning and
establishing infrastructure such as forest roads, nurseries etc. The
following would be the main project components:
(a)   State Forestry Program
Mi) Rehabilitation of existing fuelwood plantations near Addis
Ababa. About 13,000 ha in large(greater than 80 ha)
contiguous blocks would be rehabilitated and upgraded under
the project using conventional plantation techniques under
the direction of the Project Management Unit.
(ii) New Fuelwood Plantations. About 7,000 ha near Addis Ababa
and 4,000 ha at Bahir Dar would be established under the
project using traditional forestry department techniques and
managed centrally by the Project Management Unit.
(iii)  Forest Villages.  About 17 forest villages would be
constructed for an estimated 4,200 families affected by
plantation activities.
(b)       Community Forestry Program
Within the project area, community forestry would be
encouraged in order to produce woodfuel for both the rural
and urban areas. The following activities would be financed:
(i) Rehabilitation of 3,720 ha of existing plantations which
occur in small discrete blocks in agricultural and urban
areas to be managed through UDAs and PAs.



- 11 -
(ii) Establishment, under project supervision, of 1,600 ha of new
plantations on PA land.
(iii) Planting about 250 ha by peasant farmers as individual trees
within homestead compounds and around public institutions.
(iv) Establishment of 8,440 ha of plantations for PA woodfuel
self-sufficlency through extension efforts and supply of free
planting material.
(c)   Forestry Research
Applied research would be conducted ia order to provide
information on which new technology for fuelvood production would
be based, including plantation management, nursery techniques and
forestry extension methods.
(d)   Forestry Training
Overseas and In-service training would be provided in order to
ensure the availability of adequately trained professional and
technical staff required for forestry development under the
project.
(e)   Project Implementation
A Project Management Unit would be established in SFD with
overall responsibility for all project components. Guidance
would be provided by a Project Coordinating Committee.
(f)   Technical Assistance
Expert assistance would be required in forest oroject
implementaion, plantation management, research, financial
control, training and monitoring and evaluation, totalling 196
man-months.
(g)   Monitoring and Evaluation
Project progress would be monitored by a strengthened Monitoring
and Evaluation Division (MED) within the Planning and Programming
Department (PPD) of MOA. A mid term review would review the
project's design and objectives and recommend changes in
direction deemed nect.sary.
D. Detailed Features
State Forestry Plantation Program
Upgrading Existing Plantations (US$14.4 million)
2.13      According to GOE estimates, about 13,000 ha of the plantations
around Addls Ababa occur in large blocks (greater than 80 ha). These
blocks are relatively remote from urban centers and population densttles



-12-
are low. They are In environmentally fragile areas, and are in need of
protection. The areas would be too large to be managed efficiently by
communities inexperienced in forestry operation and they would therefore be
upgraded under the direct control-and management of the Project Management
Unit (PMU) (para.4.02) attached to SFD.
2.14      The present status of the plantations, future management plans
and silvicultural regimes are described in Implementation Volume, Item 1.
Further information for planning would be provided by the aerial and
economic surveys financed under the PPF, Three categories of plantations
have been recognised depending on the degree of degradation. These are:
(i)   Coppice stands, 0 to 4 years old with well established and
vigorous stools (6,000 ha).
(ii)   Stands with about 50% blanks, but with the remaining stools still
vigorous (2000 ha).
(iii)   Severely degraded stands with old stools and a poor stocking
density which require replacement (5000 ha).
These ares would be designated as State Forests (under the provisions of
Proclamation 192 of 1980). The phasing of the rehabilitation program is
shown in Table 1.
Table 1
Plantation Rehabilitation-Program
Project Year
Plantation Type
1      2       3         4        5         6     Total
Category I            -     500      500     1000     2000      2000     6000
Category II           -     250      250      500       500      500     2000
Category III          -     250     500      1000      1250     2000     5000
Total                 -    1000    1250      2500     3750      4500    13000
2.15      To facilitate management the plantation area would be divided
into 4,000 - 5,000 ha blocks.  The project would finance the construction
of site and block offices, stores, machinery sheds, houses for guards, and
labor camps; vehicles, bicycles and horses/mules; and office furniture,
radio/telephone communications, a micro-computer, hand tools and
fertilizers and incremental operating costs. Over the project period, 248
incremental staff would be employed, including 90 forest guards.
2.16      A total of five nurseries would be established under the project
and provided with sheds, stores and inputs sufficient for each to produce
1.5 million seedlings annually (mainly of E. globulus). Seedlings would be
transported to planting sites by tractors and trailers.



- 13 -
2.17      In order to gain access to the sites, the project would provide
for the construction of 30 km of access road and 60 km of feeder roads to
augment the existing road system. At present, roadbuilding is undertaken
by SFD on an ad hoc basis. The project would provide PHU with the
necessary resources and heavy equipment (para.4.14) for the construction of
40% of road requirements. The remaining 60%, mainly the larger roads,
would be constructed by contractors. Culvert moulding equipment would be
provided at each major plantation site.
Establishment of New Plantations (US$21.6 million)
2.18      In order to provide additional supplies of fuelwood for urban
areas and to stabilize erosion prone areas, new plantations would be
established near Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar. The planting sites would be
demarcated following the completion of the PPF financed aerial and
socio-economic surveys. Details of plantation management plans, operating
procedures and silvicultural regimes would be based on those successfully
implemented in the ADB and bilaterally financed plantation projects (para.
1.24) and are outlined in the Implementation Volume, Items 1 and 2. Where
possible, manual methods would be used for plantation activities. The
project planting program is given in Table 2.
Table 2
New Plantation Program
Project Year
1      2        3         4        5         6      Total
Addis Ababa      -      500     1000      1500     2000     2000      7000
Bahir Dar        -      100      500      1000     1200      1200     4000
2.19      At each major site, the project would finance houses for Block
Managers and Rangers in addition to those provided for forest guards.
Otherwise, the civil works, equipment and vehicles would be similar to
those provided under the plantation upgrading component (para.2.15). The
program would require 118 incremental staff at Addis Ababa and 78 at Bahir
Dar. Dring the project period, four nurseries would be built at the Addis
Ababa site and two at the Bahir Dar site, each with an annual production
capacity of 1.5 million seedlings. Civil works, inputs and supplies would
be provided for nurseries together with tractors and trailers and pick-ups
for transportation of seedlings. E. globulus would be raised at Addis
Ababa and E. camaldulensis at Bahir Dar.
2.20      About 50 km of access roads and 160 km of feeder roads would be
required to facilitate plantation operations at the Addis Ababa site. The
main road to Debre Marcus passes alongside the Bahir Dar site so that only
an additional 12 km of access road and 60 km of feeder roads would be
required. About 40% of road construction at the Addis Ababa site would be
carried out by PMU, and a similar percentage of Bahir Dar where a small
separate capability for road construction would be established and equipped



-14-
with a bulldozer, grader, mobile workshop, dump trucks, tools and
engineering equipment.
Forest Villages (US$R.1 Million)
2.21      It is estimated that about 4,200 families would he affected by
the state forestry operations. Of these, about 2,500 have encroached upon
existing plantations and the rest are living in the areas considered unfit
for agriculture that have been selected for forestry plantations. The
project would finance the relocation of these families into about 17 forest
villages near the forestry operations. Each family would be provided with
a house estimated to cost Birr 2,550 and the village would be provided with
a water supply, school and clinic. Forest village residents would be
offered employment in the forestry plantations. Details of village
establishment are provided in Annex II. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that GOE would submit to IDA a relocation plan for the families
affected by the plantation program by December 31, 1987. This plan would
ensure that these families would be relocated within the vicinity of the
forest plantations and that the economic activities and living standards
would not be less than those that existed prior to relocation.
Community Forestry Program (US$5.6 million)
2.22      The community forestry 4/ program would foster a participatory
approach to forestry involving the active cooperation of members of PA, llDA
and forestry officials. The objective would be to increase supplies of
fuelwood and poles in rural areas and for sale in the urban centers of
Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar. Approximately 120 PAs5/ and UDAs in the
Menagesha Awraja and Addis Ababa, and about 70 infBahir Dar Awraia would
participate ln the program. Tree planting-would be encouraged by providing
seedlings and making forestry extension advice available for all types of
community forestry operations.
2.23      The community forestry program would use agriculturally
unproductive land and land previously forested but now containing a few
scattered trees and unproductive stumps (Category III in para.2.14). tlnder
the project, two approaches to forestry development would be uised.
(i)   Supervised Forestry Activities for the production of wood for
sale in easily accessible urban markets. All planting and
upgrading work would be undertaken by PHU on conditions mutually
acceptable to GOE forestry authorities, UDAs and PAs.
(ii)   Self-Help Forestry Activities primarily for the production of
wood for home consumption.  Plantation work would he undertaken
bv PAs and UDAs.
4/ In this context, community forestry is used as a generic tetm covering
social forestry, agro-forestry, village forestry, on-farm forestrv and
community forestry.
5/ Where they exist production cooperatives would also he permitted to
participate in community forestry activities independentlv rf the PA hut
tinder the conditions outlined for PAs.



- 15 -
2.24      In addition to these two approaches, UDA and PA members would be
encouraged to plant trees around homesteads, farms and institutional
buildings (schools, offices, churches etc.).
2.25      Except for planting around institutional buildings which would
commence in project year two, community forestry plantations and upgrading
operations would commence in project year three. The first two years would
be used for selection and training of staff, selection and motivation of
PAs and UDAs and an intensive forestry extension Program. The community
forestry planting program is given in Table 3.
2.26      To provide the necessary seedlings, 190 nurseries would be
established under the projr-ct in the selected PAs and ITDAs. The nurseries
for self-help activities would he the responsibility of the PAs and UDAs
participating in the program. Those for the supervised plantations would
be established under the project and supervised by Forest Cadres
(para.4.1O). The nurseries would be provided with the necessary tools and
inputs to produce about 50,000 seedlings each, annually.
2.27      The community forestry extension activities of PMU would be
strengthened under the project by the provision of vehicles, mules, office
equipment and furniture, tools and survey equipment. The project would
also finance the construction of houses, offices and stores in project
areas for community forestry staff. A Senior Community Forester would be
appointed to PMU to head the program and an additional 84 incremental staff
would be required at full project development. The 36 forest cadre staff
would work directly with the PA and UDA members.
2.28      The operating instructions, plantation management plans and
silvicultural regimes for supervised and self help plantations are provided
in the Implementation Volume, Items 4 to 8. Since the production of
woodfuel and poles through involving PAs and UDAs in community forestry
enterprises is new, several models would be used, the intention being to
concentrate or the most successful nodel during later project years and in
subsequent projects.
2.29      Supervised Plantations (1,600 ha).  Forestry staff would be
responsible for establishing and maintaining E. globulus plantations in
Menagesha Awraia and E. Camaldulensis plantations in Bahir Dar Awraja. In
each of the 32 associations selected to participate, 20 ha would be
afforestea ennually commencing in the third project year. Manual
afforestation methods would be used with employment offered to those
presently engaged in pilferage within the existing plantations. After t'he
early harvests, full establishment and maintenance costs would be recovered
by GOE and the plantation then handed over to the PA or UDA for further
management and protection according to an agreed forest management plan and
under the technical guidance of the community forestry staff. Funds
generated by sale of woodfuel and poles from later harvests would be used
for further investment in plantation development and the surplus
distributed among the PA or UDA members. The plantations raised under the
supervised plantation model would be used as demonstrations for neighboring
PAs and UDAs.



- 16 -
Table 3
CommunitZ Forestry Planting and Upgradi!3 Program
1      2        3        4         5        6       Total
Addis Ababa                       --              ha ---
New Plantations
Supervised            -       -      100       200      300       400      1000
Self-help             -       -      400      1040     2000      2000      5440
Homestead/Farm        -       -       20        30        40       50       140
Institutional         -       3        4         5        6         7        25
Upgrading
Supervised            -       -      100       200      300       400      1000
Self-help             -      -       200       520     1000      1000      2720
Bahir Da
New Plantations
Supervised            -      -        60       120-     180       240      600
Self-help             -      -       300       600      900      1200     3000
Homestead/Farm        -      -        10        15        20       25        70
Institutional         -       1        2         3        4         5        15
TOTAL                 -       4     1196      2733     4750      5327    14010



- 17 
2.30      Supervised Upgrading (1,000 ha).  It has been estimated that of
the 20,000 ha of existing plantations around Addis Ababa, 7,000 ha are In
small discrete patches dispersed in agricultural land and unsuitable for
incorporation into large scale centrally controlled forestry activities.
Of these, 4,000 ha are totally degraded and would be included in the
replanting program. In the Addis Ababa area only 3,000 ha are suitable for
upgrading. An additional 720 ha would be available in areas outside the
vicinity of Addis Ababa.
2.31      Under the supervised upgrading activities, a total of 1,000 ha of
the area suitable for upgrading would be upgraded at the rate of 20 ha
annually in 20 selected PAs and UDAs. Plantation activities would begin in
five PAs and UDAs annually from the third project year onwards. Procedures
for selection, management etc., would be slmilar to those for supervised
plantations (Implementation Volume, Items 4 to 8).
2.32      The degraded plantations would require enrichment planting which
would necessitate uprooting some old stumps and cutting back shoots on
existing stools. PAs and UDAs would remove all saleable produce. The
subsequent upgrading activities would be funded under the project
(Implementation Volume, Item 6).
2.33      Self-Help Plantations (8,440 ha).  Under the project, 160 PAs and
UDAs (100 in Addis Ababa and Menagesha and 60 in Bahir Dar Awraja) would be
encouraged to plant a total of 80 ha of fuelwood plantations (20 ha
annually over four years). Planting activities would commence in 35 PAs
and UDAs in project year three and an average of 42 associations added each
year. Fuelwood and other forest products would remain the property of the
UDAs and PMs and would be used for members' household needs. Any surplus
could be marketed and proceeds distributed equally among PA and UDA members
by the Executive Committee.
2.34      Self-Help Upgrading (2,720 ha).  Upgrading operations would be
initiated in 2,720 ha of small blocks of existing plantations. This would
commence in 20 PAs and UDAa in project year three and the additional
associations introduced until project year five. In each participating PA
and UDA, 10 ha of old plantation would be upgraded annually.
Upgrading activities would be the total responsibility of PAs and UDAs and
harvested produce or the proceeds from its sale would be distributed
equally among PA and UDA members.
2.35      Homestead and Farm Planting (210 ha).  Present Ethiopian land
tenure regulations allow for usufruct rights only and members within PMs
can be required to relocate to other areas within the PA, as this becomes
necessary either through the influx of new members or as a result of
consolidation of land holdings to form cooperative farming schemes.
Members are therefore reluctant to make long-term investments, in tree
planting on the lands they cultivate, since the long-term ownership of the
planted trees is not clear. GOE plans to investigate farmers' attitudes to
tree planting during the PPF socio-economic survevs. As an interim
measure, the project would concentrate on encouraging farmers to plant
trees in house compounds where ownership rights are more secure and from
which wood products can be freely marketed.



- 18 --
2.36      In each of the 190 PAs and UDAs participating In some way in the
project activities, 50 famllies would be encouraged to plant 50 seedlings
of fuelwood, pole and fruit trees, beginning in project year 3. All
establishment and maintenance activities would be carried out by the
participants.
2.37      Institutional Planting (40 ha).  The aim would be to plant the
equivalent of 25 ha of plantations in Addis Abaha and Menagesha Awra a, and
15 ha in Bahir Dar Awraia, around schools, churches, service cooperative
headquarters, clinics and other public buildings. Costs would be borne by
the institution concerned. Planting would commence in the second Project
year and trees established would serve as demonstration centers within the
PA or UDA. The trees would be the property of the institutions.
Forestry Research (USS2.7 million)
2.38      General support for the forestry research program conducted
through SRC will be supplied by SIDA beginning in 1986. The research to be
conducted under the proposed project would therefore concentrate on applied
research that could be expected to provide information to rapidly improve
project implementation and plantation technology.
2.39      Research would be the responsibility of PMU.  The project would
provide for the employment of a research leader, two assistants, four
tabulators and support staff who would work in close collaboration with SRC
in order to ensure that the project related research would he integrated
into the overall plan to be produced with the assistance of SIDA.
Vehicles, office equipment, calculators, a micro-computer and a green house
would be financed under the project. Consultancy services would be
financed to assist in the design and implementation of trials and to help
establish links with internationally reputed research institutes and data
banks. The project would also finance visits by project research staff to
these research institutes.
2.40      The project research priorities are:
(a)   Nursery techniques: soil mixtures, simplified pots, handling of
seedlings and vegetative propagation.
(b)   Forest soils: the effects of sub-soiling, pit size and plowing.
(c)   Fertilizer aoplications: formulation and use on different species
and irn old eucalyptus plantations.
(d)   Species: performance of species under project environmental
conditions.
(e)   Plantation design: effects on yield of spacing and rotation
lengths.
(f)   Mro-forestry: use of windbreaks, and field boundary plantations
and production of fodder and fruit.



- 19 -
2.41      These topics would complement ongoing research presently being
undetaken by SRC on nursery techniques, provenance and species trials and
rural forestry. The project related research would be conducted in the
field at project nurseries or in areas set aside in the plantations. Some
of the trials (species, vegetative propagation and fertilization) would be
designed and executed in collaboration with internationally recognized
foreign institutions.
Training (USS1.5 million)
2.42      The implementation of the proposed project would require a total
of 609 staff (Annex 1). Of these, nine would he graduates and 38
diplomates. GOE has agreed to make the necessary staff available but
training would be required for some additional staff and in order to
replace staff transferred to the project from other duties. The project
would finance ten overseas fellowships for training at the degree level and
provide finance for vehicles, equipment and guest leturers for specialized
training courses and seminars to be held at Wondo Genet and Alemaya
Agricultural University for Block and Site Managers, Forest Rangers,
Community forestry staff and technicians. Details of training courses are
given in Annex I.  The training courses would be coordinated by a PMU
Training Coordinator assisted by a logging instructor, draftsman and
support staff. PMU would be provided with necessary vehicles and
equipment.
Project Implementation (USS6.8 million)
2.43      Management.  A Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established
within SFD to be responsible for overall management and direction of the
project. The project would finance the provision of vehicles, equipment,
furniture and salaries (for a total of 81 incremental staff) and operating
costs. The PHU would include training and research functions. Its road
building capacity would be supported by the provision of a mobile workshop,
road building machinery, vehicles and tools. Technical assistance to
strengthen PMU would be provided in forestry and financial management
(para. 2.45).
2.44      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and Evaluation would be
conducted by MED. The project would provide office equipment, vehicles,
furniture, incremental staff and operating costs for MED. Enumerators
would be employed to enable socio-economic surveys to be undertaken in the
project area. Because the introduction of fuelwood production into PA and
UDA organizations is innovative under present Ethiopian conditions, it is
not possible to predict with certainty, the responses of the PA and UDA's
expected to participate-in the project. It wtould be essential to maintain
a flexible approach to plantation establishment during project
implementation which would permit changing the proportion of planting from
one component to another according to results obtained.  This would be
facilitated by monitoring results and by the report of the mid-term review.
Technical Assistance (USS1.3 million)
2.45      Because of the shortage of forest graduates experienced in
project supported forestry activities, technical assistance



- 20 -
(102 man-months) would be needed especially in the initial projeet years,
to ensure adequate management, planning and execution of the project
components. The following technical assistance needs have been identified
and would be included in the project3 Draft terms of reference for these
consultants are provided in the Implementation Volume, Item 10.
(a)   Forest Management and Planning
(i) Senior Forestry Expert (24 manmonths).
(Ui) Experts (short-term) in forest management, planning and
community forestry (6 man-months).
(b)   Financial Management
(i) Financial Controller (24 manmonths).
(c)   Forestry Research
(i) Forestry Research Specialist (24 manmonths).
(g)   Monitoring and Evaluation
(i) Monitoring and Evaluation Expert (24 manmonths).
2.46      Assurance was obtained at negotiations, that the Senior Forestry
Expert would be employed under terms of reference and with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA by December 31, 1986.
E. Environmental Impact
2.47      The proposed project would be expected to have a signifieant
beneficial impact on the environment within the project area. Forests and
tree cover play a significant role in the ecology of Ethiopia and have been
depleated drastically since the beginning of the century as the demands for
forest products has increased. The project would contribute to soil
erosion control and by providing alternatiave supplies of fuelwood would
reduce the demands and the rate of degradation of the natural forests which
are valuable gene pools and wildlife refuges.
III. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
3.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$62.1 million (Birr 128.6
million) including duties and taxes estimated at US$7.0 million (Birr 14.5
million). The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$17.8 million
(Birr36.8 million), representing 29% of total project costs. Base cost
estimates are based on December 1985 prices obtained during appraisal and
mission estimates. Physical and price contingencies over the six year
project period amount to 38% of total base costs. Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 10% for the civil works and 5% for all other costs



- 21 -
Table 4
ETHiOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
PRECT COST SU0ARY
(Iirr '000)                 (USt '000)                    I Total
2 Foreign   In
Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total   Exc _    costs
A. NE£ PLANTATIONS
ADDIS AAMA                        17777*9  6,525.4 246303*2  9S08,3 3M152.4 119740.7             27       26
IAHR DAR                           94B1.6  3W225  13004.2   4W387.3 1,894.9 6i292.2              30       14
Sub-Total NH  PLWTATIONS             26859.5 t0#447.9  37,307.4  12t,975.6  59047.3 18,O22.9        28       40
o UP IN6 OF ADDIS PAATIONS           20,646.1  7,658.9  280305.0  9#974.0  3.6999? 13t673.9         27       30
C. COMITY FORESTRY                    5,457.0  2,491.6  0,149.4  2733.2  1,203.7 3t936.9            31        9
D. RESEARCH                           3,669.3    121.9  3,791*2   I.rM6    5899 1431.5              3        4
E. PROJECT IPlETATION
NAMMG                              5,460.9  4,100.4   9561.3  2U638.1  1980M.? 4,619.0           43       10
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 229.2  2u062.8  29O.0        110.7   996.5  1.1t 2          90        2
TRAININ6                             869.4  1.629.2  2,498.6    420.0   787.0  1,207.0           65        3
OINITORINS ANM EVALTION              954.0   51896   1,472.5    460.8   250.    711.4            35        2
Sub-Total PROJECT ILENTATION          7.513.4  84310.9  15,824,4   3W629.? 4014.9  7644.6           53       17
Total BASELINE COSTS                   64,346.1 29.031.2  939377*3  31,085.1 14.024.7 45,109.8        31      100
Plwsic.l Continesncius               5,322.7  2P241,6   7,564.3  2,571.4  1,082.? 3t654.3          30        8
Price Continencies                  22.037.2  S5,94.6  27,631.7  10,646.0 2M702,7 13,348.7         20       30
Total PROJECT COSTS                    91,706,0 36?867*4 128,573.4 44,302.4 17,810.3 62,112*7         29      138
April 21, 1986 13:06



-22-
except vehicles and equipment for which no physical contingencies have been
provided. Price contingencies are based on expected price escalations.
The following inflation rates have been assumed in cost estimates. Foreign
costs: 7.0 % for 1986/87 and 1987/88, 7.5 % for 1988/89, 7.7 % for 1989/90,
7.6% for 1990/91 and 4.5% for 1991/92. Local inflation rates were assumed
to be 9% for 1986/87 and 1987/88 and 10% annually thereafter. Details of
cost estimates are in Annex VI, Tables 1-16 and are sutimarized in table 4.
3.02      Provision has beer made for a Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance of US$323,000 to finance forestry inventory surveys and
socio-economic studies in project areas to enable a rapid implementation of
the project.
3.03      The project would requIre about 102 man-months of consultancy
services at an estimated total cost of US$1.3 million.
B. Financing
3.04      The project would be financed by IDA and GOE.  Costs to be
financed by the beneficiaries in the community forestry component under the
self-help arrangement amounting to US$2.7 million equivalent have been
excluded from the financing plan below.
Table 5
Financing Plan
Foreign        Local       Duties
Exchange        Costs      Taxes       Total       X
GOE                -             10.1        7.0        17.1        28
IDA               17.8          27.2          -         45.0       72
Total             17.8           37.3        7.0        62.1       100
3.05      The IDA credit of US$45.0 million to GOE on standard terms would
be equivalent to about 72% of total project costs, or 82% of project costs
net of taxes and duties. It would finance the full foreign exchange costs
amounting to US$17.8 million and about 73% of local costs amounting to
US$27.2 million. GOE would contribute about US$17.1 million of which
US$7.0 million would be taxes and duties.
C. Procurement
3.06      GOE-has well established procurement rules and procedures which
are satisfactory to IDA.  Procurement arrangements for the project are
summarized in the following table.
3.07      Contracts for civil works amounting to US$14.1 million include
the construction of buildings, housing, roads and resettlement of 4,200
families in forestry plantations. These contracts would not be suitable
for international competitive bidding (ICB) because the work would be too
small-scale and dispersed to attract international interest. These



- 23 -
Table 6
Procmemeat Table
Mr      Wm!A
ITM4         IIM     us      LIT C(   APAuZ
1. Civil Wads               12.5             1.6            14.1
(10.2)         ( 1.4)           (1.6)
2. IZtabli;sIt
a. NIterial       5.7    0.8                              6.5
( 4.0)  ( 0.6)                         ( 4.6)
b. labor                                         14.0   14.0
(10.0)  (10.0)
c. aveys          0.4    0.2             0.2              0.8
(0.3)  (0.1)           (0.1)           ( 0.5)
3. Trat
a. Vehcls         1.3    0.4                              1.7
( 0.8)  ( 0.3)                         ( 1.1)
b. Livestock                             0.1              0.1
( 0.)           ( 0.1)
4. E4im=t an
Ikcbnfy           4.1             0.3    0.1              4.5
( 2.9)         (0.2)  ( 0.1)           ( 3.2)
5. Tes,nical
Assi e                                   2.3              2.3
and  minimg                             ( 2.3)          ( 23)
6. nmrmtal
*Ming cost                                       18.1   18.1
(11.6)  (11.6)
SIGIYL        11.5   13.9    0.3    4.3    32.1   62.0
TZAL M,    ( 8.0)  (11.2)  ( 0.2)  (4.0)   (21.6)  (45.0)
i&bte : Fipm  in pirtbeses are the respective sutt fianoW by ML



- 24 -
contracts would, therefore, be awarded following local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures satisfactory to IDA. Roads and forest villages would be
constructed either through force account or LCB contracts.
3.08      Vehicles, equipment, tools, nursery supplies, machinery and
fertilizers, valued at US$ 12.7 million would be packaged as far as
possible into contracts valued at US$100,000 and above and would be
procured in accordance with ICB procedures. Local manufacturers would be
allowed a preference at bid evaluation of 15X of the c.i.f. bid price of
imported goods or actual customs and duties, whichever is lower. Smaller
contracts could be procured by LCB according to procedures acceptable to
IDA. Some minor office equipment such as calculators and typewriters
valued at $0.3 million would be procured by limited international bidding
(LIB). Small off-the-shelf items costing less than USS20,000 each and
which are required urgently and horses and mules for transportation may be
purchased by prudent shopping with at least three price quotations. The
total value of procurement through prudent shopping would not exceed
US$200,000. The qualification, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of internationally recruited experts funded by the credit under
technical assistance equivalent to USS1.3 million would be according to IDA
guidelines.
3.09      For civil works contracts, (LCB) exceeding US$150,000 and for
purchases of vehicles, equipment fertilizer and other goods (ICB and LIT)
exceeding US$100,000, proposals for advertising, draft tender documents,
bid evaluation and award proposals would require prior IDA review before
contract award. An estimated 95% of total contract value require such
review procedures Table 7. Other contracts would be. subject to selective
award reviews.
Taole 7
Procurement Profile of Value and Number of Contracts
IJSS Million
Estimated           Estimated No.        ~         Total Val'ie above
Contract Size         of Contracts      Value          Threshold
Above 1.0 million          5             7.5              30
500,000 to 1.0 million    12             Q.4              3"
250,000 to 500,000         8             3.0
100,000 to 250,000        23             4.0 
Up to 100,000             28             1.4
76            25.3



- 25 -
D. Disbursement
3.10        The proposed credit would be disbursed over 7 years as follows:
TABLE 8
Schedule of tDA Disburseent by Categories
(US$ Million)                         14y86
Category              Amvtmt            Of lVcditu
Allated             to be Fin
1. Civil Works
a. Cotracted           10.5          10  of forewin expenditures
and 75Z of local expIitures.
b. Force Account        9.0          70% of local eenditres.
2. VehicIes,Rpipment,      8.2           100% of foreip  tpeditue,
Machinery and Material                100% of es-factory price if
fnufactured locally,mid 60% of
iocal e     sntures.
3. Pack Aniuuls            0.1           90% of local iitwr .
4. Consulting Services     2.5           10% of expitures.
and Trainirg
5. ncrmental              10.4           reducing percentages of staff salaries
peratirg Cost                        and operating costs as follows :
70% of US$ 8 million of the costs
and 50% of the blance of the cots.
6. Refuxiz,,g of PpF       0.3           100X of principal mumt and
charges outstanding at effective-
ness date.
7. Unallocated             4.0
Total              45.0



- 26 -
3.11      In order to expedite the flow of funds for minor disbursements, a
special account would be established within the Bank of Ethiopia in foreign
exchange. IDA would make an initial deposit of USS1.5 million Into this
special account and replenish It periodically. The ceiling for each
contract value or purchase from this account would not exceed USS50,000.
3.12      Disbursements for all items would be based on full documentation
except for incremental operating and maintenance expenses, local training,
course expenses, labor for plantation establishment, contracts for goods
and services valued below US$20,000, and construction carried out by force
account, which would require only a statement of expenditure (SOE), a
procedure to be established by PMWU. Supporting documents for SOE including
verification of labor employment and areas planted by the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (para.4.16) would be retained by the borrower and made
available for examination by IDA supervision missions. Dishursements are
expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
3.13      The disbursement profile for the project is in close agreement
with the profile for forestry projects In Eastern Africa (Annex VII).
E. Accounts and Audits
3.14      The Project Management Unit (PMU), with the support of a
financial controller to be financed under the credit, would establish and
maintain project accounts in accordance with acceptable accounting
practices. The Finance Department of MOA and the Accounting Division of
NRMD would ensure that government financial regulations are followed by PMU
and MOA computerized accounting system would be used in maintaining
separate project accounts. A major study of the Ministry of Agriculture
inventory control and accounting system is presently being carried out by
an internationally recognised accounting and auditing firm. The follow-up
from this study is expected to improve the efficiency of the accounting
system, which would fuily satisfy project requirements. All accounts
related to the project would be audited annually by the Ethiopian Audit
Services Corporation (EASC). EASC is competent and based on past
experience, gives priority to agencies receiving international finance.
Audited accounts, including audits of statements of expenditure and the
special account would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of
the financial year. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these
accounting, auditing and reporting procedures would be followed.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Coordination
4.01      The implementation of the project would require the cooperation
of several of the Departments of NRMD. In order to ensure that there is an
adequate flow of information between Departments and that satisfactory
coordination is ensured, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) would he
established under the chairmanship of the Vice Minister NRMD, and with
membership consisting of the Project Manager, Head of SFD, Senior Community
Forester, Head of SRC, Senior Forestry Expert, Read of Monitoring and
Evaluation Division, the Read of CFDD and the Principal of Wondo Genet
FTI. The committee would meet at six monthly intervals and would he
responsible for approving work programs, recommending changes in project
procedures, reviewing monitoring and evaluation reports, and for approving
budgets and accounts.



- 27 -
Project Management
4.02      The Natural Resources Conservation and Development Main
Department (NRMD) of MOA would be responsible for the overall
implementation of the proposed project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations, that by October 1, 1986 PMU would be established within the
SFD of NRMD. The project manager (PM) would be Heae of PMU under the
direct supervision of the Head of SFD, (Chart 30398A) and would be assisted
by an internationally recruited Senior Forestry Expert. It would be a
condition of effectiveness that the PM had been appointed under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. The PM
would be responsible for project planning, management, direction,
implementation, accounts and procurement. An implementation schedule is
given in Annex 6, Table 1. He would be directly responsible for
supervising the new plantatiorns to be established under the direct control
of PM and for the rehabilitation program, through Site Managers, one of
which would be posted at Bahir Dar and two at Addis Ababa (one for the
upgrading program and one for the new plantation program).
Operational Procedures
4.03      State Forestry Plantation Programs.  The upgrading programs and
the new plantations would be organized and managed by Site-Mangers. The
plantation areas would be divided into blocks of 4,000 to 5,000 ha under
Block Managers, each assisted by four or five Rangers responsible for 1,000
ha. A management plan for each block would be prepared with the assistance
of the consultant Senior Forestry Expert (para.2.45).
4.04      The upgrading program would be executed in cooperation with the
PA and UDA adjacent to the areas involved. Before work is scheduled to
begin, meetings would be arranged between respresentatives of the city
Council, Awraja and Woreda administrations and the concerned MOA
Departments. The objectives, technical background and upgrading procedures
would be explained and the benefits likely to accrue to the local
populations outlined. As additional incentives to encourage cooperation
with forestry authorities, PA and UDA would be offered project support in
establishing and upgrading their own plantations, and employment for
association members in forestry activities. Where hardship would result
from the upgrading program, other forms of compensation, such as allowing
controlled cutting by UDA and PA members during a transitional period could
be considered. In the unlikely event that no agreement could be reached,
the total upgrading program would be taken up under the community forestry
component. Agreement would be followed by demarcation on the ground by a
team consisting of technical staff from PMU and representatives from the
City Council, Awraja and Woreda administration and concerned PA and UDA.
4.05      It is essential that the upgrading program should cause the
minimum disruption to the supply of woodfuel to Addis Ababa and the least
distress to those who make a living by scavenging wood in the plantations.
Short rotations and heavy front end fertilization would help to reduce the
disturbance to the supply, however, some reduction in supply is inevitable
and the short fall will have to be made from other sources such as the
plantations at the lower elevations in the Menagasha forest. Employment
opportunities would be available within the plantations for most of the



- 28 -
wood scavengers. SFD is aware of these issues and is preparing an action
plan for the phased introduction of the existing plantations into the
upgrading program, which would address these supply-side problems.  This
action plan is being produced in collaboration with the City Council and
the Energy Department of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. If necessary,
assistance in completing the plan would be provided by the consultant
Se:aior Forestry Expert (para.2.45).
4.06      Under the project several actions would be initiated, the
combined effect of which are expected to ensure protection for plantations
from exploitation:
(i)   PA and UDA adjacent to the plantations would be offered project
support in establishing and upgrading plantations for their own
consumption and for sale.
(ii)   Awraja, Woreda and City Council authorities would participate in
the management of plantations and in stupervision of the PA and
UDA activities.
(iii)   A supply action plan with alternative supply sources for Addis
Ababa would be available.
(iv)   Employment opportunities as guards and plantation workers would
be made available to association members and wood gatherers.
(v)   Plantations would be legally designated as State Forests and be
subject to the forest rules embodied in the legislation.
(vi)   Forest guards with adequate means of transportation would be
posted in the plantation area.
(vii)   Public awareness programs and the presence of project activities
in the plantation areas are expected to induce a sense of
commitment to the protection of the resource by PA and UDA
members.
4.07      Community Forestry Programs.  A Senior Community Forester (SCF)
who would be directly responsible to PM, would be responsible for the
direction and management of the community forestry component of the
project.  He would be assisted by the Senior Forestry Expert (para.2.45).
Under the direction of SCF, three Community Foresters (CF) would operate in
the city of Addis Ababa, Menagesha Awraja and Bahir Dar Awraja. CFs would
supervise both technical and financial operations within the UDA and PA
participating in the project and would monitor accounting and operational
records.  They wouid provide on-the-job training to lower staff and
maintain liaison with the concerned city council, UDA or PA
administrations. Close cooperation would be also necessary with CFDD.
4.08      Each CF would be assisted by two Community Forest Rangers (CFR),
who would advise and supervise project procedures and silvicultural
regimes, organize nurseries, plan work programs and verify and submit
claims for expenditure to CF. They would also assess surveying and



- 29 -
demarcation requirements related to the establishment of supervised
plantation and upgrading existing plantations.
4.09      Forest Cadres (para.4.10) would operate at the UDA and PA level
and would ensure that plans and work programs are carried out in accordance
with the agreements reached. One contact family would be nominated within
each UDA or PA for the supervision of nurseries and planting in self-help
operations. The contact family would provide the basis for the operation
of the community forestry extension services. Working through CFR and the
Forestry Cadre, the CF would motivate and select PA and UDA to participate
in the program. In the selection of PA and UDA priority would be accorded
to those associations, in which the development of community forestry could
act as a protective barrier for the state forestry plantations. Other
criteria for selection would be:
(i)   recognized need among PA and UDA inhabitants for establishing and
upgrading plantations;
(ii)   willingness to allocate land (primarily totally degraded old
plantations) for planting, without disturbance of existing
settlement patterns;
(iii)   willingness to organize community forestry activities; and
(iv)   acceptance of supervision and monitoring activities arranged by
community forestry staff.
4.10      The motivation and selection procedures would require intensive
forestry extension and given that women are the main providers of fuelwood
for household purposes in the rural areas it is essential that women be
selected and trained for as many of the CFR and Cadre staff positions as
possible. Community forestry staff would be provided with necessary
vehicles and mules to enable PA and UDA to be regularly visited. Extension
skills would be strengthened through the in-service training programs. The
Forest Cadre would provide a close link with the local populations. They
would be selected from the PA or UDA and given specIalized training in
basic forestry and extension methodology at the Forestry Training Institute
presently being constructed with SIDA assistance at Mertule Mariam.
4.11      Once selected, and prior to the commencement of pre-planting
activities, all conditions of participation would be discussed and agreed.
At negotiations, assurances were obtained that a legal agreement
(Implementation Volume, Item 8) would be drawn up and signed between the PA
or UDA Executive Committee and GOE detailing the plantation site location,
species to be planted, silvicultural regime, management plan and definition
of respective obligations of the parties concerned. Assurances were also
obtained at negotiations that, in order to provide the necessary basic
operating information, a Community Forestry Upgrading Manual would be
prepared (Implementation file, Item 5) by June 30, 1987.
Forestry Research
4.12      Forestry research would be under the direction of a Forestry
Research Officer who would be assisted by two Research Assistants
(Rangers). Technical experimental procedures would be established after



- 30 -
discussions with SRC and experiments established within planting sites,
under the control of PMU research staff. Since the experimental program is
expected to be sizeable, a consultant research expert would be employed to
advise on program content and experimental design, and to set up linkages
with international research institutions for the exchange of information
and in order to arrange participation by forestry research personnel in
international network research projects.
Forestry Training
4.13      A Forestry Training Officer and support staff would be appointed
within PMU for the planning and coordination of training courses and
seminars. The Senior Forestry Expert would provide guidance on project
related training, especially with regard to the skill-gap analysis (Annex
1). The training staff would provide support to site managers in the
design and execution of in-service training courses.
Road Building
4.14      PMU would be responsible for the planning and supervision of all
road building activities under the project and would work in close
cooperation with the Rural Infrastructure Development Main Department of
MOA. PMU would be responsible for contractual arrangements for the supply
of roadbuilding equipment and expertise.
Annual Work Program
4.15      Annual Work Programs would be prepared by PM and SCF and
synthesized into a project annual work program (PAWP). The annual work
program would:
(i)   review progress to date;
(ii)   describe the forestry work program for the coming year;
(iII)   estimate staff, equipment, machinery etc., needed to achieve the
work program objectives;
(iv)   propose an appropriate budget;
(v)   outline details of procurement required and civil works to be
constructed;
(vi)   provide details of the pregram of forestry research; and
(vii)   identify training courses and selected candiates for overseas,
local and in-service training.
Each PAWP would be reviewed and commented upon by IDA. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the first draft PAWP would be prepared by PM
and furnished to IDA for comment by November 30, 1986. Thereafter, draft
PAWP would be prepared and furnished to IDA before February 15, each year.
The final PAWP would take into account IDA comments. The final PAWP for
the first year would be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1986 and final
PAWPs for subsequent years by March 31, each year. The PAWP and the
reports of MEU would be the management tools crucial to enabling the PPC to
propose redirection of the project actlvities.



-31-
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.16      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be the responsibilitv of
MED (para.2.12), which would be strengthened under the project by the
provision of a Forestry Economist, Foresters and Ennumerators and would be
assisted by an internationally recruited expert on M&E procedures.
4.17      Monitoring would be continuous and would include measurements of
work progress (including details of labor employed and actual areas
planted), effects of the project on the local populations, resporves of
target populations and fluctuations in fuelwood prices.  The variables to
be measured would be determined in consultation with the M&E expert. As
part Qf the monitoring procedures MED would arrange for field surveys and
develop an information dissemination system. The socio-economic surveys
financed under the PPF would be used as a base line against which the
effects of the project on rural populatons could be measured. The data
provided to project management would enable corrective measures to be taken
in project implementation and the project to be redirected to give greatest
emphasis to the most successful reforestation methodology.
4.18      MED would also compile the information obtained regularly from
other project implementing agencies and would furnish IDA with six monthly
progress reports in a form satisfactory to IDA. MED would also be
responsible for preparing the project completion report six months after
the completion date. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
Mid-Term Review
4.19      MED would arrange a joint GOE/IDA mid-term review of the project
at the beginning of the fourth project year under Terms-of-Reference
satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
terms-of-reference and a proposal for staffing the review team would be
furnished to IDA by September 30, 1989. A copy of the mid-term review
report would be furaished to IDA by March 31, 1990. Guidelines for the
terms-of-reference for the mid-term review are provided in the
Implementation Volume, Item 10.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND COST RECOVERY
A. Plantation Yields
5.01      Eucalyptus was introduced Into Ethiopia in 1895 for peri-urban
plantations and has since extended also into the countryside, and is
frequently seen growing around farms. In spite of the fact that the
technology for planting and maintenance are well known, there are no
forestry records in Ethiopia that show current or potential yields of
Eucalyptus Globulus in the proposed sites. Project yield estimates are
based on the performance of this species in other areas with similar
ecological conditions. Yields for both upgraded and new plantations under
the management of SFD are estimated to be between 14 and 22 m3 per ha.
Forests managed by UDA and PA under the community forestry program are
estimated to produce less because of their lower level of management.
There will be further yield differences between supervised and self-help
schemes in the community forestry program. Yields of supervised



- 32
schemes are estimated to be 10% higher than self-help schemes because of
the intensive support that will be provided by PMU under the project.
5,02      The following are conservative forestry yields over the project
period for the three management systems.
Table 9
Summary of Yields from Forestry Plantations
Management                 Addis Ababa            Bahr Dar
System            New Plantations   Upgraded    New Plantations
-m3/ha --------------
SFD                    479              464             374
Supervised             375              310             300
Self help              335              279             270
B. Production
5.03      Organized harvesting of fuelwood, poles, twigs and leaves and hay
from existing forestry plantations would be maintained during the project
period to ensure continued supply of forestry products to Addis Ababa.
However, total estimated annual production from existing plantations is
expected to decrease during this period as more plantations come under
controlled rehabilitation. Annual production is estimated to fall from
current levels of 155,000 m3 of biomas to 144,000 m3. The production would
rise when plantations begin to mature and reach a level of 1,015,000 m3 in
year 12 after rehabilitation (Annex III). New plantations around Addis
Ababa and those near Bahr Dar would be ready for first harvest in year 6
after planting. Initial total production from new plantations would be low
because of phased planting during the project period. However, increased
production is expected when most plantations mature and coppices begin to
produce. As a result, total incremental production from forestry
plantations under the project is estimated to be 881,000 m3 at maximum
production in year 12 and to average 577,000 m3 in the years following.
5.04      Demand projections for fuelwood in Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar are
based on current per capita consumption and population growth estimates.
Annual fuelwood per capita consumption estimates range from 1 m3 to 1.5
m3.  The population of the project area is 3.0 million people with an
annual growth rate of 2.9%. The total production from the proj.ct area in
year 12 would therefore be sufficient to satisfy 16 to 24% of fuelwood
demand in the project area. While the increased production is small
compared to needs, the project, in conjunction with other GOE plantation
initiatives (para.1.24) would help to alleviate the problems caused by
fuelwood deficits in the project area. Up to the present, deficits have
been met by depletion of existing forests and by increased use of
agricultural wastes for fuel.



- 33 -
C. Marketing, Pricing and Cost Recovery
Marketing
5.05      Under the provisions of the Forest Decree of 1980, only public
enterprises including the Wood and Charcoal Production and Marketing
Enterprise (WCME), a semi-autonomous Government agency, are legally
permitted to sell wood harvested from state plantations and PA and UDA
lands. Individuals may sell only wood taken from their own home plots. In
practice, however, there are some 80,000 private individuals who sell
illegally obtained fuelwood and charcoal in Addis Ahaba. This trade by
scavengers accounts for about 80% of the fuel sold in Addis Ababa, with the
WCME accounting for only 20% of the market. WCME buys fuelwood and
charcoal from PA and UDA producers at a stumpage rate determined by GOE
that averages Birr 4 per m3. The fact that present costs of plantation
establishment and maintenance are more than four times the GOE stumpage
rate, combined with the restrictive marketing arrangements, has caused
increased scarcity of fuelwood in Aidis Ababa, and effectively discouraged
investment in new plantations.
5.06      Community Forestry Products.  In order to reverse this trend,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the community forest products
not marketed through public institutions (para. 5.07) wotld be distributed
and marketed freely at open market prices. With retail markets at Birr 80
per m3, it is expected that PAs and UDAs would find it attractive to plant
fuelwood trees on land unsuitable for agriculture provided they are
convinced that the new marketing arrangements would be permanent.
5.07      At negotiations, assurances were also obtained that the quantity
of forest products produced under the community forestry programs in the
project area being marketed through public institutions would not exceed
the demonstrated capacity of such institutions. This is presently
estimated to be 135,000 tons of wood and 25,000 tons of charcoal,
equivalent to 20% of the marketed fuelwood supply of Addis Ababa
(para.5.05). The total quantity of forest products marketed through public
institutions and the marketing capacity of these institutions would be
reviewed annually and a report on the review furnished to IDA.
5.08      State Forestry Products.  Production from PAs and UDAs
constitutes only one third of fuelwood and charcoal to be produced under
the project. The remainder would come from plantations managed by PMU and
owned by SFD. The marketing and pricing of production from these
plantations was a major issue in project preparation. GOE is not yet
prepared to move to auctioning or other market-determined forms of
distribution. It has however agreed that if public enterprises are unable
to distribute forest production, the plantation output would be sold
directly to tradets and c-onsumers. SFD would issue buying licenses to all
persons or entities meeting reasonable criteria of financial honafides and
would inform them every three months of products available for sale.
Interested buyers would submit indents of their requirements, along with a
deposit. SFD and PMU would allocate supply to buyers and if demand exceeds
supply, would ration supplies in proportion to requested indents. WCMFE and
other public enterprises would he given priority in the allocation of
forestry products for marketing, up to the limit of their marketing
capacity (para.5.07). Traders (including public entities) who have not
paid prodtucers in full by the time of the next sale of wood would not be
eligible for an allocation.



- 34 -
Pricing and Cost Recovery
5.09      At present, the Government fixes both the stumpage rate for wood
from all sources -- Birr 4 per m3 -- and the retail price for wood sold by
the WCME -  between Birr 33 and 44 per m3, depending on location.  Open
market retail prices, however, are currently Birr 60 - 80 per m3 in Addis
Ababa. This price difference provokes illegal scavenging from state
plantations (para.5.05) and enables traders to make substantial profits.
The pricing structure of fuelwood is illustrated In Annex IV, Table 2.
5.10      In the marketing system proposed under the project, GOE would fix
both the stumpage rate and the rstail price for wood sold by PAs and UDAs
through public enterprises. Assursnces were obtained during negotiations
that the price would be adequate to cover the -costs of production and
include a margin sufficient to provide an adequate incentive to producers
to reinvest in tree planting. Production not marketed through public
enterprises would be sold without restrictions on channels and prices. The
stumpage rate for wood from state-controlled forests and plantations would
be set at a level to ensure at least full cost recovery. In practice it is
expected that the stumpage fee would be set at a level which would capture
the major portion of the profit margins. MED would monitor costs of
production, transport costs and overhead costs and recommend revision of
the stumpage rate. The stumpage rate thus determined would be reviewed
annually in association with IDA. Assurances that the above pricing
mechanism would be introduced before June 30, 1987 were obtained at
negotiations.
5.11      Table 3 in Annex IV shows the projected average costs of
production per m3 over thirty years for new and replanted plantations and
for PAs. Costs in new PA/UDA plantations are Birr 15.2 per m3 and in new
state plantations Birr 18.6 per m3. At current market prices and deducting
marketing and transport costs, the stumpage fee would work out at Birr 38
per m3 -- more than nine times the present fee. For freely marketed
produce, this fee would provide a net margin over average production costs
of Birr 19 for SFD plantations and Birr 23 for PA wood producers. Thus the
retail price could fall as low as the Birr 60 to 65 range - an unlikely
possibility in view of fuelwood's steadily increasing scarcity - and PA/UDA
growers as well as plantations could still recover their costs.
5.12      Except for the cost of labor for community forestry under the
self-help program, the cost of establishing forests and of initial
uwintenance would be covered by the project.  PMU would recover the full
cost (except the cost of seedlings under the self-help component) from
beneficiaries during the early harvests (para.2.29). In the case of the
rehabilitated plantations, PMU would recover the cost in annual instalments
starting from the harvest in the first year of the project. The revenues
from the plantations would revert to consolidated Government revenue.



- 35 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS, AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      Forestry.  The principal benefit would be the incremental
production of fuelwood.  At maximum production (Annex 111, table 1) the
project would increase the output of fuelvood and poles by 550% from
the current level of 155,000 to 1,015,000 m3 for the Addis Ababa and Bahir
Dar markets (estimated to be 1.6 million people). The project would also
benefit about 190 PAs participating in the community forestry program.
Annual per capita incomes for PA members would increase by an estimated 15%
from Birr 280 to Birr 320 as a result of the project. In addition, the
proposed changes in marketing arrangements (para.5.12) would permit GOE to
capture extra revenue through sales of wood from plantations.
6.02      Agriculture.  A further benefit from the project would be
increased food production. Increases in production of fuelvood from
upgraded areas and new plantations would reduce the rate at which dung and
agricultural residues are being diverted from use as crop fertilizers to
fuel.  Quantification of the effect this will have on total production is
not possible but it is expected that this diversion, if unchecked would in
the long term, substantially reduce food production. Additional benefits
would be milk and meat production which would be increased by the greater
abundance of fodder and crop residues made available for animal feed.
6.03      Employment.  Over the 6-year implementation period, the project
is expected to generate about 25,500 man years of additional employment
excluding labor required in self-help operations. Labor would be needed
for plantation upgrading activities such as harvesting, shoot removal and
thinning, and for seed collection, nursery establishment, soil working,
plantation establishment and subsequent maintenance operations. Housing,
building and road construction activities within the project area would
also generate substantial employment. Availability of these largely
unskilled jobs would mainly benefit the poorer members of the community,
which would include some of the 80,000 people currently gathering and
selling wood from plantations.
6.04      Environment.  Major environmental benefits from project
activities would be soil conservation and slope stabilization,
micro-climatic improvements, and restoration of soil fertility.
Upgrading of old plantations and new tree plantings, protection from
grazing and trampling, in association with cutting and harvesting of
grasses and fodder, would improve soil and water infiltration thus
improving water supply and agricultural production.
6.05      Settlement.  The project would benefit about 4,200 families-or
21,000 people by providing those in forest villages with housing, schools,
potable water and clinics. Benefits accruing from such social investments
are difficult to quantify, but the standard of living of these families
would be improved.



-36-
B. Economic Analysis
6.06      Major assumptions used in the calculation of the economic rate of
return of the project are as follows:
(a)   Because of the abundance of unemployed labor in and around Addis
Ababa and other major towns, shadow wage rates for unskilled
labor were estimated to be 50% of the market wage rate. The
- unemployment situation has worsened since the drought of
1983/84. The market wage rate was derived from the value of
grain paid to labor, which is a common practice when establishing
forestry plantations around Addis Ababa. The value for grain in
the parallel market is about twice that in the government shops,
therefore laborers prefer payment in kind which gives them an
opportunity to sell surplus grain in the parallel market and
benefit from the high prices.
(b)   Project inputs that consist largely of imported components such
as vehicles, heavy machinery and equipment have been valued at
their appropriate C.I.F. border prices. All local costs that
represent non-traded goods and services were adjusted to border
prices by using the standard conversion factor of 0.8.
(c)   In the new plantations, adjustments were made to incremental
benefits to reflect agricultural production foregone when
marginal arable land is converted to forests. About 40% of the
land is used for barley production and the rest for vegetables.
Adjustments were also made to reflect the value of hay from land
currently used for grazing.
(d)   The wood output of the project was valued using prevailing local
macket prices, which reflect supply and demand in the highly
competitive market.
(e)   All capital and recurrent costs for the project were included in
the calculation of the rate of return, together with replacement
costs for vehicles and equipment and costs for their operatini
and maintenance. The life of the project was assumed to be 30
years, whch is the productive lifespan of the trees to be
planted.
6.07       On the basis of the above assumptions, the economic rate of
return for the project is estimated to be 16% (Annex V). This relatively
high rate of return reflects the extraordinarily high price of fuelwood in
Ethiopia, as well as the utilization of sunk resources in the
rehabilitation components of the project. The rate of return estimate does
not include benefits from increased food production due to improved
agricultural land as a result of reduced use of dung and agricultural
residues that are currently used for fuel.
6.08      Economic rates of return for individual components were estimated
to determine their contributions-to the project (Annex V). The
rehabilitation of the Addis Ababa plantations yielded a rate of return of



- 37 -
22% as compared to 16% for new plantations at Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar.
The rate of return for the community forestry program is estimated to be
26% reflecting the low level of investment required.  The overall rate of
return for the project would be higher if activities that are not directly
associated with project success were excluded from the analysis. These
activities include settlements and research. Benefits from these
activities are long term in nature and difficult to quantify. The rate of
return also reflects the long gestation period normally associated with
forestry projects.
G. Sensitivity Analysis:
6.09      Switching values were calculated at a discount rate of 13% which
was assumed to be the opportunity cost of capital, and sensitivity tests
were done to-determine how the project would respond to changes in the
value of key variables. These are summarized below
Test                                          ERR
Total cost up 20%                                   14.1%
Total benefits down 20%                             13.6%
Benefits delayed 2 years                            13.3%
Benefits delayed 2 years
and costs up 20%                                    11.6%
6.10      These estimates show that the project rate of return is
relatively insensitive to changes in costs and benefits. The switching
values test shows that benefits would have to decrease by 24% or costs
increase by 32% for the net present value of the project, discounted at the
opportunity cost of capital of 13%, to fall to zero. These changes in
costs and benefits are unlikely.
D. Government Cash Flow
6.11      The Government cash Flow is set out in Annex VII, Table 3.  This
shows that over the project's life of 30 years, the GJovernment's cash
inflow would exceed outflows by about Birr 95 million or an averge of Birr
3.2 million per year. These funds would be available for further
investments in the production of fuelwood.
E. Project Risks
6.12      Since the basic technology is available and simple to apply and
it is unlikely that production would be less than anticipated. The project
aims to foster community involvement in upgrading of old plantations and
establishment of new plantations to increase fuelwood production and there
is a risk that the number of UDAs and PAs may not reach targets set and
that the rate of induction may be discontinuous and uneven. The project
provides for a flow of information to the UDAs and PAs through project
field staff and also provides for orientation training for forestry staff
in the methodology required for successful implementation of community
forestry programs to reduce the risk of apathy and ignorance of the project
at UDA/PA level.



- 38 -
6.13      Success of the project, particularly those components involving
community participation, would depend on sale of marketable produce at
incentive prices. The project therefore includes covenants to ensure that
an incentive pricing procedure, would be used which encourages reinvestment
in foretry. Prices would be fixed by GOE for the proportion of products
marketed through public enterprises.  The rest of the production would be
sold on the free market. MED would monitor market prices in the urban
centres of Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar which would form the basis for setting
stumpage prices for wood from state managed plantations. Market price
information would also regularly he communicated to participating UDA and
PAs by project field staff.
6.14      While community involvement is expected to reduce pilferage of
forest produce, there is a risk that protection of state plantations
developed under the project would be difficult to ensure. Wood from the
plantations has been a free good for many years and the temptation to
pilfer it may be increased as a result of the introduction of incentive
marketing and prices and existing low salary levels in Ethiopia. The
project activities undertaken on state forest lands address this issue by
providing for the employment of forest guards, and field staff would
endeavour to motivate UDA/PA members and involve them in protecting
plantations upgraded and established on UDAIPA lands. Plantation
protection would be closely monitored during project implementation and
more stringent control measures introduced if deemed necessary.
6.15      The project components allow for considerable flexibility in
scope and implementation, permitting greater emphasis and support to
activities doing relatively better than others. The mid-term review would
enable the project to be adjusted as a result of real or anticipated
threats to the achievement of project goals. Overall, given the public
interest in augmenting forest products particularly fuelwond supply to
urban centres of Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar and the dedication of GOE to
afforestation, the risks are low.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      A condition for credit effectiveness would be:
(a)   The appointment of a Project Manager directly answerable to the
Head of SFD as head of PMU under terms-of-reference and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (para. 4.02).



- 39 -
7.02      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations.
(a)   The aerial and socio-economic studies would he comleted and an
-      -analysis submitted to IDA by June 30, 1987 (para. 2.iO).
(b)   A relocation plan would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1987
which would ensure that relocation of families affected by
plantation activities would be in the vicinity of the plantations
and that economic opportunities and living standards of
individuals relocated would not be less than those that existed
prior to relocation (para. 2.21).
(c)     Senior Forestry Expert would be appointed under
terms-of-reference and with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA by December 31, 1986 (para. 2.46).
(d)   Accounting, auditing and reporting would be according to the
procedures outlined (para. 3.14).
(e)   A Project Management Unit would be established within SFD, under
the direct supervision of the Read of SFD, by October 1, 1986
(para. 4.02).
(f)   Upon selection to participate in the project activities, PAs and
UDAs would sign a legal agreement with GOE which would detail
plantation site location, species to be planted, silvicultural
regime, management plans and definition of respective obligations
of the parties concerned (para.4.11).
(g)   A community forestry upgrading manual would he prepared and
furnished to IDA by June 30, 1987 (para. 4.11).
(h)   The first draft project annual work program would be furnished to
IDA for comment by November 15, 1986 and subsequent draft annual
work programs furnished by February 15 each year. The final
annual work programs, which would take into account IDA comments
would be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1986 and by March 31 in
eacf subsequent year (pars. 4.15).
(i)   MED would furnish to IDA, six monthly progress reports on project
implementation and a completion report (para. 4.18).
(J) Terms-of-reference and a proposal for staffing the review team
which would be responsible for the mid-term review would be
furnished to IDA by September 30, 1989. Such terms-of-rieference
and proposal to he satisfactory to IDA. A copy of the mid-term
review report would be furnished to IDA by March 31, 1990
(para. 4.19).



- 40 -
(k)   GOE would take the necessary steps to ensure that by June 30,
1987 a system for selling fuelvood and poles, produced in the
project area, had been established containing the following
elements (para. 5.07 and 5.10):
- the quantity of forest products produced under the community
forest programs in the project area being marketed through
public institutions would not exceed the demonstrated capacity
of such institutions.
-the proportion of forestry production not marketed through the
public marketing- institutions would be distributed and marketed
freely at open market prices.
-The total quantity of forest production marketed through public
marketing institutions and the marketing capacity of public
marketing institutions would be reviewed annually and a report
on any such review furnished to IDA.
-The price paid to producers for forest products would be
adequate to cover cost of production and include a margin
sufficient to provide an incentive to reinvest in planting.
-The price paid for forestry products produced on state-run
forest plantations in the project area would be sufficient to
ensure at least full recovery of production costs.



- 41 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
TRAINING
1.        At the end of 1984, the staff of the Natural Resources
Conservation and Development Main Department consisted of 120 professional
foresters (degree or equivalent), about 400 technical staff (diploma or
equivalent) 850 lower level technicians and clerks (certificate holders)
and 4,000 permanent workers. The professional foresters are responsible
for planning, coordination and management and are often associated with
forestry projects. Diploma holders function as foremen and junior or
middle level forestry experts and certificate holders serve as supervisers
in nursery, plantation, surveying, inventory and demarcation work. The
permanent workers are forest guards, nursery workers, and skilled
artisans. Unskilled daily labor is employed for other forestry work.
2.        In both agriculture and forestry sectors, there is a shortage of
trained staff. In the forestry sector graduate foresters, research workers
and teachers are in short supply. For its implementation, the project
would require a total of 263 trained staff (Table 1). Of these, nine would
be graduates and 38 diplomates. GOE has agreed to make the necessary staff
available but training would be required for some additional staff and in
order to replace staff transferred to the project from other duties. Staff
working on the project would also require in-service training and special
refresher courses to up-grade their skills and to introduce concepts of
community forestry into the forestry service. Since women are the main
providers of fuelvood in the rural areas and have the greatest interest in
ensuring an improved fuelwood supply, it is essential that as many as
possible of the extension staff to be trained under the project should be
women.
Forestry Training Institutions
3.        The Wondo Genet Forestry Training Institute is the only
specialized forestry training institute in Ethiopia. It offers a two year
diploma course and has an annual intake of 70 students. In addition, two
month in-service short courses are given for technicians and financial
managers.
4.        All graduate training is at institutions abroad.  Recently, GOE
with assistance from SIDA, has embarked upon a 'crash course" for training
graduates in Sweden. This is scheduled to begin in 1986.
5.        Some instruction in forestry is provided during the diploma
courses in agriculture provided at the agricultural colleges. The
Agricultural University at Alemaya also offers forestry as a limited
subject in the agricultural degree course.



-  42  -                Annex I
Page 2 of 2
6.        Training for lower level forestry staff and for farmers is
provided through short courses arranged by SFD at Wondo Genet and Alemaya.
When completed, training in community forestry will be provided by the
National Center for Community Forestry at Mertule Maryam. Forestry staff
to be trained would include the Forest Cadre which will in future provide
the forestry extension contact with the farmers.
Project Related Training
7.        For all staff, there is a need for training in modern
silvicultural techniques. Plantation staff would need training In
organization and management of large scale plantations, nursery techniques
and methods for improving existing plantations. The community forestry
staff lack skills in agro-forestry and silvi-pastoral techniques.
8.        During project implementaiton, and with the assistance of a
consultant adviser the training course contents and syllabi would be
reviewed, a skill gap analysis conducted and a project manpower development
plan produced. This would be done in cooperation with the SIDA financed
"Manpower Development Coordinator" attached to the Vice Minister's office,
who is responsible for education and training for the entire forestry
sector.
9.        The project supported training program is given in Appendix 3.
To compensate for the drain on forestry graduates for other duties the
project would finance ten overseas fellowships for training at the degree
level. The number of students graduating from Wondo Genet are sufficient
to meet the project needs for diplomates. Forest Cadre staff would be
trained as part of the normal program at Mertule Maryam.
10.       The project would provide for specialized training courses for
forestry technicians, rangers and site and block managers at Wondo Genet
and at Alemaya Agricultural University. The project would provide finance
for vehicles, equipment and guest lecturers for courses which would range
in duration from one week to two months.
11.       The special courses would include techniques of instruction to
enable trainees to provide on-the-job training, for example in harvesting
techniques, to forestry workers.
12.       The professional forestry staff concerned with community forestry
would attend a one month special course at Mertule Maryam, followed by a
visit to ICRAF in Kenya.
13.       The project would also finance annual seminars at which
experiences would be shared, research information disseminated and project
progress reviewed. Overseas study tours would be provided for the project
manager and research leader to similar projects in other African countries
(Madagascar, Congo).
14.       Training courses would be coordinated by the PMU Training
Coordinator assisted by a logging instructor, draftsman and support staff.
The project would finance necessary vehicles and equipment for the unit.



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Qualification Requirements of Additional Staff
MSc          BSc           Diploma           Certificate           Mertule
Maryam
Project Manager              1
Program Officer              -
Research Leader
Training Coordinator         -                              1
Logging Instructor                  -                       1
Road Engineer                              1
Site Managers                1             2                -
Block Managers               -             1                4
Rangers                      -                             24                                      -
Nursery Foremen              -11
Technicians                  -                                               168
Senior Community Forester   1                               -                  -
Community Foresters          -                              3                  _
Community Forest   Rangers  -                               6                  -                   -
Forestry Cadre               -             -                -                  -                  36
Total                        3             6               39                179                  36



-44-
Annex I
Appendix 2
Page 1 of I
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFFING
___________COMPONENT                     _ _ _ _ _ _
Post             NtYr.Mdis       New,Addis    New 8ahir Dar       Commu-i       PM Office
Project Manager                            _              _                               I
Senior Community
Forester                 _               _             _                 _              1
Program Officer            _               _             _                 _              1
Training Coordinator       _               _                                              I
Logglng instructor         _               _             _                 _
Research Leader             _              _              _                _
Research Aseistant          -              -             -                 -              2
Tabulator                   -              -              -                -              4
Road Engineer               -              -             -                 -              I
Assist. Road Engineer       _      -              -                        -              I
Road Foremen                -              -              2                -              6
Surveyor                    I              -             -                 -              2
Machine Operator           -                              2                               7
Assistant Operator         -               -              2                               7
Mechanic                   -               -              I                _              2
Assistant Mechanic         -               -              1                             2
Blacksmith                         -              -               -                       I
Assistant Blacksmith        -              -             -                                I
Time Reeper                 -              -              2                -             7
Driver, Dumptruck          -               -             2                 _             6
Driver, Tractor            5               4             -                 _
Driver, Car                11              7             4                 1             13
Draftsmen                   1              -             -                 _             2



-45-
Annex I
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
_ppeudtx 2 (Cbatd.)
cowmr 
Post              Upgr.addia      NewAdi         Now HshIr Der       Community      Ph Office
Accountant                 4               1              _                 3              1
Cashier    -               I               -    -         1 I                               1
Executive
Secretary               _                _              _                                1
Secretary                  -                                 _                             2
Typist                     4               1              l                 3              3
Clerks                     9               5              3                12              _
Field Clerk                3               -              -                 -              _
Messenger                  -               _              _                 9
Cleaner                    3               1              1                 -               1
Guard                      3               I              1                 9            -2-
Site Manager               1               1              1                 -              -
Block Manager              3               2              _                 _              _
Ranger                    13               7              4                 -              -
Technician                91              49             28                 -              -
Nursery foremen            5               4              2                 -              -
Forest Guard             90               35             20                 -              _
Co-unity Forester          -               -              -                 3              -
Community Forest
Ranger                    _6                                                               -
Forestry Cadre            -                -              -                36              -
Total                   248              118             78                84             81



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Training Program
Category of                                            Type of         Source/                               No. of Trainees Each Year
Trainee                  Skills Needed                Training        Location   | Dration            _ I        2       r      4             6-
Basic Training
Diploma holder       General Forestry, Sec          Undergraeduate    Abroad          4 years              5     10      10     to
12 Grade             Technical, Silvicultural       Summer Course    Wondo Cenet    2 months              70     70     60       -     _       -
aspects of large                                or Alemays
plantations Technician                                                                             -
12 Crade             Basic forestry, extension    Standard            Mertule         2 months            10     16      10      -     _       _
technique.  Forestry          course.           Maryam.
cadre.
Specialized
Training
Site and Block       Modern stilvtculture,          Special course   Wondo Genet    2 weeks                _     10       _         _     _
Managers             nursery technique.             (guest            or Alemaya.
organization and management  lecturers,
of large plantations, soil   consultants).
and species performance.
Recording and monitoring.    Seminars.           Profect         I week                     t 1o   10      to    10      to
Site..
Rangers              Modern nursefy and             Special           Wondo Genet    2 weeks               -     24
plantation techntque.  Fire  course,            or Alemay,.
protection. Erosion
control. Soil working,
manual and mechanized.
Recording and monitoring.    Seminars.          Project          I week              _       _     24      24    24      24
sites.
Technicians          As above, but according to   Special course   Project            I week               _      _       _    IRO   IRO       _
assignment (nursery,           (guest            sites.
plantation, etc.).             lecturers),
practicals.
CF Experts,          Extension technique,           Special cout,e  Mertule           I month              _     10 I     _         _     _
Community            communicatton,                 (guest            Maryam                                                                               '-4
Foresters            agro-forestry, appropriate   lecturers.                                                                                            X
nursery technique.            consultants
Multt-purpose trees,          from ICRAF)
silvipasture, eroston
control, Recording and
monitoring.                   Study tour         Nairobi         I week              -       9      _       _     _       _
ICRAF
Seminars         Model
awrajas
Forestry cadres      New expertences in             Semtnars          Neighboring    I week                      26i    36       i    36      36
extension, multipurpose                         woredas
trees, planttng techniques,
etc.
t,.:.    .   .. 



-47-
Annex II
Page I of 2
ETHIOPIA
FORSTRY PROJECT
FOREST VILLAGES
1.        Estimates based on existing aerial photographs and maps on which
settlements are marked, indicate that about 2,500 families have encroached
upon the plantations which surround Addis Ababa and that about 1,500 and
200 families are living in the area earmarked for plantations in the Addis
Ababa and Bahir Dar sites respectively. More precise information will
result from the PPF surveys.
2.        Plantation activities would be undertaken in a manner which
affect the smallest possible number of families. The total area available
in the plantation sites is much greater than that to be planted under the
project. The sites for plantation blocks must be free from flooding, with
a soil depth of about I m, suitable soil texture and pH and with surface
boulders not covering more than 50X of the surface. In addition, the
following criteria would be used in selecting plantation biock sites.
(i) No agricultural land with slopes less than 300 would be used for
forestry plantations.
(ii) Plantations would be planted above an altitude of 2,700 m.a.s.l.
and on slopes greater than 300*
(iii)   Pockets of dense population would be avoided.
(iv) Suitable areas for forest villages would be set aside within the
plantation areas.
3.        The families, which would of necessity have to be relocated would
be provided with houses (about 50 m2) and a homestead garden area free of
cost within a forest village. Each village would consist of about 250
families and would be provided with a water supply. In areas where
facilities do not exist, a school and a clinic would also be built. Houses
would be bult on a stone foundation, have walls of poles covered with mud
and a roof of corrugated iron sheets. The approximate cost of construction
has been estimated at Birr 2,550 (Appendix 1). The project would also
supply one latrine and one kitchen for every four houses.
4.        The sites for the new villages would be seleced by the Site
Manager with the assistance of the Forestry Management Expert and in
consultation with the appropriate local authorities (city council, Awraja
and Woreda administrators). Information would be available from the PPF
surveys and village sites would be selected so as to minimize the distance
families are removed from their original homesteads. Agreement would be
reached between the concerned parties on the village plan (examples are
available in SFD) and on the time-frame for relocation. Water supply and
service facilities woud be constructed before the houses.



Annex II
-48-                        Page 2 of 2
5.        Employment in forestry plantation activities would be offered
preferentially to forestry village inhabitants. Work opportunities would
be available as forest guards, and as workers in nurseries, field
operations (planting, fertilization, weeding), road and fire-break
maintenance, pruning and harvesting. It is expected that a proportion of
the forest village inhabitants would prefer to earn a living from continued
involvement in agriculture.



-49-
Annex II
Appendix I
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost of "Relocation"
House for one family
Material                                         Birr
Stone for foundation and floor                   200
Building poles                                   395
Corrugated iron sheets (roof)                   495
Doors, windows                                   270
Nails, etc.                                     360
1,730           1,730
Labo
Skilled (carpenters, masons, Birr 15/day)       390
Unskilled (Birr 3/day)                           195
585             585
Add 10% for injera house and latrine                             235
(to be shared by 4 families)                                     -
Total per family                                               2,550
Assume 250 houses per village
The project will provide
- water supply for each village                        80,000
- one school per village                               45,000
- one clinic at project headquarters                   40$000



ETHIOPIA
fORESTRY DEiTl 14011C7
TOTAL PAOIXTlC4
_ ---------- 
THOUSAN  OF 63
1      2       1       4      5       6       7       I       9      1o     tl      12      13     14      ts      le      '7     is      19      20      21     22      23      24
IITH FliAC          106-.30  126.550 160.500 162.030 252.100 129.7r0 t34.790 316.760 489.460 721t790  16.945  8.37w  578.s370 714.540 597,40 614,130 504.666 614.956 662.056 66J5.3  5n.466 701.35  626.256 60.
WITlOt MROE"T       132,00  122,600 132.830 141,030 153.366 163.336 159P266 153.026 148.016 1430.06 135,946 132486 130.976 129.456 128,300 127.50  121.200 1271200 127.200 127,200 127.200 127200127.70 17.200
DninIT L            -25.700   3.950  2.56  41.00   WI.734 -33,566 -24.46 163. 34 340.644 7.584 6o0.m9 715.84 447.34 585.084 469.540 46.630 379.466  27.76 534C8M6 58.1066 440.266 574.156489.056 M4.7
mg  ROCt             1MM7  24.050  4U,700  56.970  01.700  14.200  12.632  41.78  71012 117.192 146.96 166.896  75.640 0.592  79.362 P0.326 "s.624  73.976  95.746 104.310 79.424  91.376 76.746  74.310
U3W  91C             23-200  19,200  18.740  14.514  15.550  11,"00   8.450  6.350   4.70    J.'50   I.5    1.700   1.50    10    1.500   1,509   1.Se   W.M0  !.!0 0     t  1.0  1500  1.01  1.00  2.50
IZIPfWmTL            -7.500   4.850  25.960  42.456 66.10   2,300   4.1C2   3,378 66.312 115.242 145.116 165.186  74.140  08092  77?862 78.826 34.124 724t76  94.246 102.610  77924  M9M66  75W.  72.81 M
- - -  - - - - - --- - - *- - - - - >*.- -----.. .. - -----------    -   ----------
25     26      27      28      2      30
FIUELUO "WtCIIm
111T PRO.ECT        484.266 614936 663.4t6 686.211 576,711 702.556
Vl#uT fPECT         127.,,  i27.200 127.200 l2'.20 127.200 127.200
~~~~---  -----  - - ...- ................- .- --  -- -- .- --                                               I-   . 
iWCNEVTAL           357,066 487.736 536.296 55.011 44.511 5?5356                                                                     o 
POLE PRPOI4TIOH 
vim1 FROJECT         53.024  6?.176 67,746  96.310  79.424  91.376
WITHOUT PROSCT        1.500  1.300  1.500  1.500   1.500   1.5M O
1HCREHEHTAL          51.524  65.676  86.246  94.010  77.924  89.a76
--- -  --- - ------- - --------- - --- - -- - ---- - --- - -- - -- - ----
Jamttr 14P 1906 11:20



-51-                      ARM    IV
ETHIOPIA                    Table 1
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Economic Value of Firewood
Parameters                                                Birr/m3
Present Market Price (April 1985, Addis Ababa)            81.61
Wholesale Price                                           65.29
Price Into the Depot/Wholesalers yard                     48.97
Price at the Roadside in the Plantation                   41.20
Price on the Stump in the Plantation                      38.35
Assumptions
1. Price /3 solid is based on basic density of 400 kg/m3
2.  Cost of transport is based on distance of 50 ki from wholesale depot
3.  Moisture content 25%
4.  Price/vehicle km Birr 3.00
5.  Net carrying capacity per truck 10 tons
6.  Wholesale mark-up 25%
7.  Retail mark-up 20%



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FUELWOOD DEPOT PRICES FOR
ADDIS ABABA & SURROUWING TOWNS
N4AE OF THe ITF.Y/        UNIT OF    PURCHASE OF  ROYALTY  PRODUCTION &  TRANSPORTA-  RENT OF  UNLOADING  SUB  OVERHEAD  BANKS   PROFIT  SELLING
DEPOT PARTICULARS        MEASURENENT   WOOD                  STUCKING         TION        LAND    STUCKING   TOTAL  COST   INTEREST   152    PRICE
LOADING                      5X                          152     9.52
ADDIS ABABA FUELWOOD         M3          4            3          4            10         1.10         1     23.10    3.47      2.52      4.36    33.45
AKAKI            -3                      4           3           4            13         1.25         1     26.25    3.94      2.87      4.96    38.02
DEBREZIET   "                M3          4            3          4            15         1.35         1     28.35    4.25      3.10      5.36    41.06
NAZEtATH                     M3          4            3          4            17         1.45         1     3045     4.57      3.33       5.75    44.10
*N.B. All items lIsted above 22 turn over tax is not included.
III2



-  53  -
Annex IV
Tabl e 3
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Average Long-Run Producti;on-GCot of Wood per Hectare
Addis Plantations                Community Forestry
Upgrading     New                Upgrading       New
Costs per hectare (Birr)
Capital Cost I/                       311.9        406.0                  -
Seedlings 2/                           155.9       176.3                102.3         226.R
Demarcatlon                             23.0        14.6                 10.2           8.3
Soil Working                            10.2       166.4                 30.1         331.4
Planting 6 Transport                    10.4       144.4                 49.6          27.3
Weeding & Fertilizer Application        30.0       341.0                 50.7         182.3
Replanting                            243.3         23.5                 52.5         139.9
Road Construction & Maintenance        134.5       474.5                  -             -
Pretection                              78.3        56.5                 62.2          52.8
Management 6 Support Services         872.7        891.3                626.0         635.5
Sub Total                            1,870.2     2,694.5                    6
Income forgone on land 3/               -            -                   38.6          56.6
Total Cost                           1,870.2     2,694.5              1,0f22.2    1T, 660.9T
Forestry Production (m3) 4/            176.1       144.2                123.0         109.1
Average Production Cost Birr/m3         10.6        18.6                  8.3          15.2
1/ Includes Vehicles, Equipment, Machinery and Building.
2/ 2,500 seedlings per hectare @ Birr 0.087 per seedling for SFD plantations and 3,750
seedlings per hectare @ Birr 0.067 per seedling for community forestry.
3/ Hay yield 2 tons per hectare 402 of land used 9 Birr 5/ton and other crops valued at
Birr 33 per hectare, 20% of land used for agriculture, after allowing for the costs of
production.
4/ Poles are estimated to be 1.5 tir.es the fuelwood equivalent.
Note: 1. Fertilization 62.5kg/hectare Q Birr 1/kg
Ui. Wage rate @ Birr 3 per manday for plantaions and Birr 2 per manday
for community forestry.
iii. All these are present values after discounting by 10%



-54-
Annex V
Aj |   jg s 1     X   1                         lTable I
Aj   fju       'N3     i 
a   lB         ' Ni '1  g
:t 1                    A                        l    Ig a
Ei t       ' N  1 
I                                      is '
p.  1          '    1*;                             lE l  
*             e~~~~~a ;
ii i 2    1   l    1                                             t
U,              1   ~                -*'*-  toto.
II                                 -     . 



omi wezc             waz    u    uw4  mwi                                            'urn 11    6fU69
1811W K         U1*   1U   cm1   £1                       U4WI3S03 131
ML   ML   ML  £"0  a"   Mt   au                                            'ill
-       -       -         1              99SK    -                e/ IN311 A    103ej
4)  bu   u Mm                    m       ML      ML        S3t11NM     15313W 31
P N                                                                  cz~~~~~~~~~~ u-    -    -2   -e    -    -                      1 S8 13V0841
Siam~ 191313a
,                                    _       -      -      -     -                       w ____,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------
Fe                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sisC3 IVA3
m       06      U       Om       Om      06a     "6a1  5114313o IN "I 3        101
Oml    "a       "a      ONG    09    kit    £66  SND!.1V Nv1U SIOIg"I l 511a9N
SIJBI3UWN 3113131
01      61      81      L5 91            CZ      II
Of~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   --------------
w       WS    £g.g    So W C      1p     t       1W      ou            i#         VW      st9l   SW       0&       06      61Sl    W.-  6661-   VA          a1£!-   111-   LW-   "I£-                    1 3N113 Li
au      Mt      O"1   8WA        ml   du         ML      ML       9        L6  S0061   6u         61       61      (       I U901 4  5       g0 99    SI     KIl    M       1Q61    UI                            WIL
-       -        W      Oil    ff1       -       -       -       11£   0il    991         -       -       -        31£     Oil    9m1      -        -       -       -       - M/ 13 103 h
du  6u du 6                        i       i  ez  ce    i,£ 6u  &du   6    6u  6u  6u   a £ ,£ OU                                                                                                    vilUoEd ilml  t*
-                             -    .     -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -               -       -       9(01    68U      KoItz  08k      281      fllt                   1180  1U
9W   01;9    0665    £668    9555    0159    066£    £668    9555    0159    6961  ISSS1  2S96         610    110£    8611    LX-    fit-    1W          2181    0111    Il-     £61tZ-     11143Kt63183tt30481  
g oZt9  06              S6      Om       S       06      "a      5SS    09        962    "6A1  C6    68    Mt    0                 S8-   Gm-    Ito        CtI    saw1   91-        (O f-    itilwu wu           w  V9Wl
It      i               at      61       31      L       91      St      *i       CI      ni      It.    0        6       a        £       *       5       9        £       1 
..                   -            - _-
WI__le
.lwau
"am



FOETY PROJEC
OBTI No WEITS
1       2         3       4        5        6        7        9        9       la      11       12       13       14       is       34      37       is       19       20       21      22       7)
gm1 rimt1TAIM~S                   -474    -181       195      33   3512    -112          162    3054    535        757   10604   14206    O31    1030          6373    9370    4365    6561    8456   M1324    9578   10390    50
TOMT, ZTlSR!7J1L OFIZITS          -474    -191      I185      331      512    -512       362    305      535      7`507   10604   14206    9312   10305    6373           '0    4365    6561    8456   11324    O57    I-3OM         0M
WVRBfWLTI LUSTS
PiPOJCT COSTS                     4201    4399    4562    4126    134    2339                                -        -                 -                         -            -             -
9MM"T1 OtwS
aTt1P90WCT O10D                       -        -        -        -                       642      642      642      642      64?     642      642      642      642      642      642     64       642      642      642      642      642
R!pVtEEW" OF mN1Ll.t
Am  EMWIMP13  to                      -        -        -481                                      124      110      201        -        -     481      124      110      1ot        -              493      124      I1o    '145 
----   --- -        ---------------------~~~~~~~~--- -----------------                                    -~-- - - ------
TOTAL                          4201    4398    4562    4126    3124    2319    1122            764     M5       743      64?      442    1122       766     752      743      642      641,    12r      766      35       743      002
NET ',)ST4KIUZT                  -4675   - - -4377   -3794   -2611   -2451    -760    229                 4599    6764    9962   136         7190    9539    5621    7627    372         5928      t4 1055          '826    9647    3163
24      25       26       27       29       29       30
 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~    -----     ------       ------ --.~-----
1~1KiflENTA PENEFIT3
N4EW rLANTATIONS               7622    3953    5945    804    10908    9579   10390
TorAL. INLFEIIKNTAL FE3EF1T3  7622    38l    5945    904     s090          9578   1039
INI9EMENTAL COST S
fROJECT COSTS-                             -        -                 -        -       -
RECURRENT COSTS
AF TER FROJECT FERIOD           642     642      642      642      642      642      642
REVLACEIIEPST OF YEPICLiI
AND8 E0UVMIENT la                 -     463      124      110      l01        -        -
!OTAL                       642    1122       766      732      743     642      642
NET COST'IPNEFSU              698      2731    5180    728    10165    7936    9749
/8  A~~uan  lIt. of lix WOPI.                                     Inlterna  PA"E  of R,tut  of bt SlieWs
bri1 Nop 1986  11:21                                                                       .IE                       51



Annex V
FORESTRY PR0JECT                                                                                            Table 4
TOTAL COST  MD KW ITS
'00 IIRR
1        2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       1o       1i       12       13       54       15       16       17       18       59       20       21       22       23
COMIKITY FORESTRY la                   -1       26    -312   -1037   -2004   -3041   -2333    5116    5553   10542   12203    4037    6WI    8359    9446    3841    72242                    9189    959       4752    6795    7996    9596
P1VI PLAN4TAT0INS                   -474    -292        185      332      Si?    -222       162    3054    5350    7507   10604   14206    9312   10305    6373    9370    4365    6562                9456 t 21324    857~   20I          505 S
L2?BAPIOG 8811I0 PtIPATIO1IS    -1343         -26      1530    8215    6231    -325        -283    2298      3984    0309    9963   25953    3969    63710    5559    W93    3998    8520    3550~   9993    1990    6520    5559
TOTAL. TORENOETAL 80NP17           -1019    -:a]       W~3    2199       4739   -3478   -2253    $46R   14898   ?6358   31670 ~4196   19t12   25102   20376   1'170~ A~ O                    2227-0   2WO~  2N0?   19163   74tv    70699
INCREKKTOL. COSIS
P90FLT cOlsT                       12,057   120102   12099   11047       754      5 i72       -        -                 -         --                         --                                  --                                    
RFL9R09IT COSTS
P0!ER t,;mJEC- pvue0?                   -        -                                   -    1079    101~9    1 979    1979    J979    1979    197L9         ',' p79  2q79              IM       lvp n2T 977         I7 2979         1979    "1979
REPLACEM¶ENT OF 0iEwCiCs
MDl E01TT9F47 /5                                     -                  -            -    1074       451      439      101                       1  074    41 1     439     1l1t                       1T74      4111     438      201-
ruThL                   170~~~~~I )5 7   12019   11999   11042  9544    5 72~   3053    2430    2417    2092        q979    t979    3053      24?0    2417    2001    1970    1119          3853    743      242      3C92      0191
iWT fC7Ti1rYEF11                   j3975  -11200  -2049A,  -9933   -2905    -9220    -5307    4038   12471   24277   29692   32217   16059   22152   37959   19322   1T$1e   202P2    2M55    72639   16045   128265   18929
24       25       26       27       70       29       30
:4-'. ~~.i?  I MA-:     4752    619       9027    9725    4916    692    9062
r4W rtANTAT:,?N                  7622    3853    5945    9M4        1090      9579   10390
'9209111N66 AfITI3 0L4A16A63   9993    3990    6520    5559    9993    3990    6520
TOTAL I6CCFEMENTAL  ENEF:%-  21367   14638   2049?   23323   24917   19!60   24972
INCPEN01ITAL COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                :
PAGJOCT COSSTS                       -       -         -        -        -        -        -
0ECIIOREmt COSTS
AFTER PROJECT1 0E0206'           2979    1979    2979    1979    197           1979    2979
REPLACEKEHT Of VEHICLE3
AND1 EQUIPMIENT lb                   -    1074       451      439      101        -        -
TOTAL                         1979    303    2430    2417    2091          1979    1979
NET casommBNEI                  19388   1284   1902   20906   22737   5758    22993
/a  Includes n-ar,-of  cuts bome by ke,tlctarius. Ot-fars costs of othe  cinuwnts included in Prjc                                                       Jftml  ae  o sun  fIt  tem
/b  Asmuu  life of six  Msrs.                                                                                                                            Mm1.1



-----  -                            -Tbl  
(M  021        flan        2    z~fa - 91 -             -      09M213*6.
anulctnGil ,mwwie eiiouootI. N@i   our g,,u  1W04  OM4 42 0.                                                                                           A nx
via                     4      -- -  -                            1-    ----                                  -  -                            TbleA
Oft  on?2                     tut                     2                            3.0W      33.3                                .    33.94  4
(VA31  '21.3                               2    2        2                 a       ,91     33.   312,4  -N   InA22
32202 ow                      6         2                      -          - 2     43.3     29.9  t2.0   U.                          .0M00.
o    mxin W&U               o7o              3                .    .. 940                   9  14.4 -.4. I               -          (39
aru  wimmeau=                                                                                                                          6151
11   .3 III(?M                           4    3    -    -    -    -                 .9 2.16   1.   2   3      7    .-                  49.6
Ecm (M     .) t          u0   Ito                    to     -    -    -      49     123      34.0.4 .33.   33.9                        932.3
32023 O     )                  fh              2    2    2                  I-    4 ' 9. 3    -4  329.   32.0  320.9                 300.9
IIILI   O=IOa                  amO         I    .    4    .    .    .         32     4.409       .3,0         0. 1    2..0-             4
As Mann.to                                    .      *.       .    .    .    4MO2.              ..                        .    3.
WTqw awwat                                  -                                        1340 .o0-
MS.        OM9129
$M  NN                         @493,       I    I    3    3    .    I         4    64.3204I.90.94It's   ,4   I                    -208   494
339311W  ml                     cot.W      20         a 2    2         a      a 9      4      ta.409    29.     39.9  V. I**   V.0  9339
TM409                          OR? 7              I     I     I    I                    I       33.7  11.4   42.9  32.4                  2404 3.4
NWaam                          *Nd(         I tJ9 4                     I.T           .409     1.0 1.0 1. 1**    1.- 120                 7.0
a29m      m                                 I    I9I3I04I9I3.                           to.4099    f 0,9   -      --  .0  14
Mist  RimW                                I39                         4     2        40               "24.39.4              -         3499.0    N.
NMS  am3l9                                 I23944 4    4 44                                     .9 1.0.I.21.2. .29.9 %
94.003    u3W                                I    IS              4 4          It4T            23.4    74,    1.    M    1.2             333.98
arm ,1 1321 0                                                  4 7         4     i             3.W 49.0 2,7.4 1.2.0  6.42714.0 #t   2.01.
0373               'aOwiit      3~~~~~~ .    .    .    .    .       0     4.        1.    30.0   394  3.0 3mm        39.0 mm  0.m
mm ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ 1/l                 3    A3       3  3   V       3      41    M,0        7.0    2  74      7.0        2.#   .0 .  40.0
am=                              aa         3         a 3   1   a    63 1     a 0       M.      4.0      . 9.9 4.       24.04    .6    3.0
as.11                         32193?        33.    .          .     .     .          1.           .4.10.4   W1.4          1.9.94        22004
U.TOW3                          ../..,       3    1     2          3    3       0        93     9,-     0.S    I.    9.49 W."4   9.4m.
rnoa  OrniMs                      4oa?         3    3     4    9     4    4      3        .2      0.9   30.9   294   24.929,    4.483.4
Tow         33                      iw                    3     0    4     o      0      4,      4a        9, = 39Z.4   31.23?.2344         39.4
mm       1I.9ut                                3     2                             9      .0        .9     94    3.    3.   09   9            39



-59-.
Annex VI
IT""
FMSSTSIPaufl                                               Table  2
Table 102. la  OLUTII            s I i Miii
uaiiCdTable
g    cat
____________                          -  But Cost
1Mt         WUB7  07/05  9U11   9/90   /1    9192   Totl    (It")   WV 87/00  0/09  0990  90    912   rTtl
x,     ~ Dn                                             - ---wa.n-                                                      --                          
A. CIVIL  =S
SOIL MM                        ha.          5W   1soo   I0   2,000   2.400           -    .0o00        30  15.0   30,0   45.0   600    60.0              210.0
1111m-
cWUtIS                      Ia.            1t     20      20       -      -       -      so    55i00- 550,0 2,10.0 l,110.0         -    -    -  -- 275.0
iuienox                     km.            20     40      50     50       -       -     140      M.O   120.020 .0 2       3z.   s 00.0    -           9*0.0
sfr  tnt  s                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~68.e If WO   -we.   ao.   4e.0  - Ji.s2.
Sub-Totam 31 rim                                                                                             61.0 ..0   0 l445.0  36.0   6.                ,2.
S. SOIIM                     '000 u.dlit    1.400  2*00  4,200  3600   5.600           -  19.600         1.9  123.1  240.1  369.2   42.2  492.2        - t,722.5
C. INECAIO
LUA                            ha.        I.50    2500  3.000        -       -       -    7d000         6   9.0   25.0   20.0                -      -    42.0
rA0R1                           h.         t. 500  2400   3.600      -       -      -   '.000          12  10.0   30.0   36.0 e          -          -       .
iT-ttl unKIU                                                                                                  27.0   45.0   54.0        -       -      -   126.0
o. FULMP Ln   DMIIS
Lu                               .          sW0  1 o0o   I,S0   2a00   2.000         -    .000        225 112.5  225.0  337.S  450.0  459.0            1,515.0
IICI1U.                        ha.          50s  1.0    1,500  2600  2.000          -   7100         7.5   MB      7.5   11.3   15.0   15.0        -    52.5
WWI-TotalUIUS.   1      L5   1116.3  232.   340.0  465.0  465.0                                                                                       1*627.s
1- 
ou    TRrW
UlaO            -              b.             -    Sco  1.000  1500  2.000  2.000    1000             16s     -   92.5  165.0  247.5  33.0  33e.0  1.15.0
We  Ms                                              SOba.  -    500   100o0   1   2.000   2,000    7,000  5.5  -    2.8    5.5    e.S    210    11.0    38.5
aEE      s     I T              .            -    50X   1000  1M50    2e000  24000   7.000         51.3      -   25.7   51.3   77.0  102.6  102.6   359.1
hi-Total P013t19
KE IS T5003                                                   -                                                   110.1  221.0  332.7  443.6  443.6  1552.
f. snim An
fERTUIR ALMtAIN
L12                            h.             -  1t000   3,Oo   5,000  7?000  t.00    24,000           9e     -   91.0  270.0  450.0  63.0    2.0  2,160.0
FURTILIZIU                     b.             -  1.000  3.000  5.000  7.000    00o0  24.000          62,.     -   42.5    7.s  312.S  437.5  500.0 IX0.0
WA   MJi                         .            -  1000  3,000  5.000  7,000  0.000  24,000              3      -    3.0    9.0   15.0   21.0   24.0    72.0
A.-ToUal £10100 An
fERTltER PR ICW104                                                                                            -  155.5  466.5  777.5 1,00.5 1244.0  3,732.0
0.   w1n  (M202)
LA                               .            -       -    100    20       300    400  1I000         19s      -       -   19.5   39,0   55.5   70.0   195.0
f9TI2                          b0.            -       -    100    200    300    40    1,000         62.5      -       -    6,3   12.5   10.0   25.0    62.5
WAO Ms                                                      to.  -  -    1o    200    zoo    400   1.000  6.5  -      -    0.7    1.1    2.0    2.6        6.5
SotToI    L          (M203)                                                                                              -   26.4   52.0   79.2  105.6   264.0
Toutl   ET   COSTS                                                                                              951.3 2.160.0 2,m 1.6 2,480.2 2,620.5 1793.? U2.944.9
AI. - Thmw
11 IIEIT 
mS NM                         b0                           3       50      se 50          190       50       -    5.0    15.0   25.025.0     25.0    95s.
fmm                           k b            -      15     25      35      45     45      165       Soo      -    7.5   12.5   17.5   22.5   22.5    02.s
0*-Total isO D1II1iJ~E                                                                                          -   12.5   27.1   42.5   47.5   47.1   177.5
Toutl E     T CISTS                                                                                                     12.5   27.5   42,5   47.5   47.5   177.5
Tot'i                                                                                                            951.3 2172.5 2,959.1 2.52.7 2.76.0 1,040.7 11.122.4
11  27. 19Me  9:14



Annex VI
______________                                                                         i~~Able            &
4444   4147 4(                                                                   40 94         -it      -. 
a44o4  44'                                                                                      C.4      -                      -   4,$
9*42                      944                                              474               44 
moalme4         -
'44422 S.4                                                             -            444       44 '                                  .
to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
44.4                           4          .4.42                                               47     4    2        .              .44
144 t44*so                                        .       .           .           9.47            - 4 .*   '
mm    'f44444
Le  47                       444        24    4                            4       .74      14444-   2.
444.'4444 ~~~~I3  43 444U448                                                         4342 444. 4  I   214 in  1a    A
t4217.11444                                 4     4                ..     -    4        'J.4               
CN4                                                                                     cc, 4 447                   A   Ij41 7 -  1 44.4
'"I                                                                                                               !I 44  4.4    -.   43.4
43    4    444                                                                          144    ,74. 3
434w44  m4.                                                                         4*         444,   1.    .          03i   4444-
w, u m
I  334(44                        44444       4                                                       JO-   us.;74, 14III.    .         .   44
!M11 t WPM=
.4444..               444<4..                                               4.        'At724  44             Si ~ .  -     m
us44 .                         4444              -                           ,   42M                 ` 44    .4.                .41*   k
W,3w  VOWi                                   4    .    .    .             .                    s4o4           -  e.  to,             44*U.4
ftt    4       ~    4   1413                                                                      4W       2'       .44
49444    Ifto1   42974: 14.47                                                                                                          44



Annex VI
"i'blc 4
;41P14
FW8iTT PlSOCT
-   61t 104. 810 T8AAT1C    -    6 K
fluL fl0Al9
Dtlu 1100 Ebs T1ble
9.,. CooS,
Sm gent-
unit       84/87  87/88  88/09   990   9/9¢9      1182 9  otWA     'ir1    86i87 07M  W0/9  89/90   091   91/92  total
ca=a          Nina  ICa       m:5   m        SStan. SSr    marn    _ann..an
1. zVasc        COSTS
I. son mm                         ha.           000  1.000   1.200   22         -      -    4008          i   1.  308.0   36e    36.0                     *0-  -  1.0
8. 2EtA10
0w                             ha.        4-000               -      -                   4.0            6   24.0    -       -      -                      O -   24.0
".lT£!6 hsa.                             t4,00        -       -     -                     .o          I.,   0.8                     _ _                 6.8
k-tt  DEIRT?1                                                                                                 30.8    -        -       -      -       -      8
C. 88085
ACCESS CUSTO^IlOk              Ka.          4.8    7.2        -      -       -       -      17    45,000 216.8 324.0        -      -       -       -  540.o
FEMR COST11ICt                 kn.           24      la      la      -       -       -      60       1000  44.0 100.o  108.0       -       -       -  36.0
1Total mS                                                                                                    340.0 432.0  188.0       -       -      -  9O0.8
0. SEP.e3 OelOl "IO          '000 ,edlur.     300  I-S0 1   3,C0A000   0 6 3.08        -  22,000       07.9  26.4 131.9  263.7  316.4   16.4         - 11054.9
E. LM1   lfi
LWM                            ha.          100    500   2.000   1.200  3.20        -   4.008         15   15.8  75.0  150.0  180.0  1t0.0        -  600.8
WA  T10LS                      ha.           100    500  I10O   1.200   2dG         -   4,Q0           5   0.5  1.5    5.0    6.0    6.0          -   20.0
SbL-TOjI LMU 0.1E3R                                                                                           15.5  77,5  155.0  186.0  196.0        -  620.0
F. SOIL 13Y8
LAHR                           ha.          100    50    .00O   1.200   1.200       -   4.000         ISC  15.0  90.0  160.0  216.0  216.0        -  728.0
ItD TOIXS                      h.           108    500  1.000  12200  1.2           -   4.000               0 O.6   3.0    6.0    7.2    7.2      -   24.0
Sub-oa SOIL 8   I8t. N8                                                                                       28.4 93,0  186.0  223.2  223.2         -  744.0
i. fUYITli6
10                             ha.            -    100    500  10000  1.20   1.200   4,600           156         15.6   7.8O  156.0  187.2  1I7.2  624.0
TRMW                           ha.            -    tO0    S00  120Q0  W2WI  1.20   4.000            51.3      -  5.1   25.7   51.3   61.6   61.6  205.2
Wlm tOILS                      Wl.            -    100       00  1-000  I'2M0   1.200   4,000        5.2      -  0.5    2.6    5.2    6.2    6.2   20.0
1*-Total 90101                                                                                                   - 21.3  106.3  212.5  255.0  255.0  U8.0
24,0191200 0002tr
LA=e                           r              -    N0o  1.20   3.60V  4.420   4.000  tJ.600          150         30.0  180.0  450.0  660.0  720.0 2.040.0
FERTI8                        n.                   200   1 290  3.060   44400  4.S60   13,600 j     2.'      - 12.5   53.0  IB7.5  275.0  300.0  950.e
"W  TOE                        M.                   208   ;00   3.400   *.400   4.080  :23600          3          0.6    3.6    9.e   13.2   14.4   40.8
0.tlot.  0019888
FERTILIZER VtICATIM                                                                                           - 43.1  258.6  646.5  948.2 1,034.4 2.930.8
1.8810.601118
1LAW                           ha,            -       -     20   1to       200    240      560       1t0            -    3.6   1-3.    34.0   43.2  100.8
FTIUTLIUE                      ha.            -       -     20    100    20M    240        hO       62.5            -     1.3    6.3   12.5   15.0   35.0
HNO to0"8                      ha.            -       -     20    100    20o    2ti        56         o                 0Q.     0.6    1.2    1.4    3.4
SbTotal RQWTII1;                                                                                                       -    5.0   74.9   49.7   59.6  139.2
0.1 ItWlT  COSTS                                                                                                47.,3 820.7 1-116.5 t.445,5 1,978.5 1349.0 7DS,.6
tl. 8EW COMSt
A. 886 tC3ETh
ACS3  am0                                    -    4.8       t2     12      12     12    !2.C        500      -  i.4     680    6.0    6.8    6.0   26.4
FEI!R 809$                                           9 9 e   15            la 30   10               500        4.5    7,5    9 0    9.0         .    39.8
StL-Total ROAD8 r81910jWE                                                                                       .   .9   121.5   25.8   15.8   15.8   65.4
Total 882O      COSTS                                                                                               - ,9 t3.5  I5.0   15.0   15.0   65.4
TOSI                                                                                                             440 3 735.0 1.132.Q i,6Q0.S 1,003.5 1,264.0 7.455,0
____________a___________ _ __ _  ______ _ _ ,__ ____ _ ___ _ _- -- ---- ---9- - -____ __-              -__ _____
hKth 27r 19114 07:1S



011't  S.lO' 014103191015115. 's           ri 4mq .11'S1810                                                                                      *
reg'   Min  60's)  0101' Vi    r  01l0tt'l                                           0      f    It4';154                        m nim   m
rot 11'        VP 01 1 1   to sig       *'la  lb    *I       OK      6u   mom.W Oou'w
I'M  LII  51151151055   II   as    ut  ShOd  ii  41   ba                 WI~ ~~11malt 
5IW3 0    I'll II I 5        StP    Ill9  lie      00        l1 1 11 514114                               W
?I't  rit   V'L      sib    reS    piS    Alt0 'lSS                          I      t      I     I     om"                        nima
Ira,  1-O   '   VA WE  g.E  5105                    MDl'  aO   IS            , 9            0   1    ANJw                      IB  AmO
SVmo   pt1   ll       140  g1g   0'O   4    IN'h             01    0    &    0       1      1    1      A'lM                    m*sm
rib    rI    SS    £0    05  I'Si   ;       S gm     4 WI    St  I            I 0    £       S          Allw tWI
oi '01            t    :"    "      Vol 510   5low. 1   it  11 tO  I                 I0      I 65        =km                           M1D0
'109   410*1 M        I'1141'   .,VNfll    Its'O tt1 N"      I      M    1k   0 1 if        5    $      am                       110104
M'ls VON    V`"   410.  All   VWl   wort   Olt    tit   to                  1         'A0    5     t                               WM     =
rts1   1.050  Wll  *Zt'I4I      000901   t1    NlI'    &IS   St  SI   t   I  01    50                   AO^"                            W
t'11o    115    "50   I'55   t'E    I.E    lU  NI'S?    10  S'S  0  0  £    SWm- I
415    '4I    't    tt    I'll   I'l   D.,          MS,      IO     I    I    T      A       ; 1        =Nk"mo5E131
W* II      1S      '     4S     I0 4    I,    50)4       I        I1    I         I     A    A      4km                             w
10-t    "S    59t    5')    WI    D' S      9      NI'I      I            A    I      A     I    I                                   aim4
5930     1    tI  l't I       'I IV4   CSI         NuI'      I      A    A    A      A      A          1 o"IN11
ItO     tO4    IS    *   ' II       i1    V1       10441     I      I    I    A             I    I      500                             0d
Veo    'ol    V'P    55I    WU    SOt    'si    m'                  I    I    1                   I     5110
Wfit                                              ms=    a  s~~~~~~~~~~lam   m  N III-11
I'm                                          as                                                          INOmiop 
4'0                              *~~~~~~~~~~0:  oil'  I                                                             su - I01 m NIm
t111I         -       1'011r"    I'51    1110                                                                          J11a111  mol..
l'fl5'l  ~           ro    om      Wa         n]     D .  .  .                                    on0110   515m   sum..
lao                   5~~~~~gI'    515 51   NO00    S       .    .                        s       AIM               u in  mmm
riN                          r  11 'll 511 9 NU '0    S,                             t .  515    I        WI                    (    I W
4'0         . .               . . 01                                                             11a       ontom
lie    .               .    VIe   541   I'll    11I         It                      ao         a          W"                I'I=%IU'iOS
re! . . . . .4Vol                                  No'Sl  5i                         I                    W"           Vtin) on am*
1111.'51                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~am   li   ".
ama mo
W61                    .11    00  1.m IN
405.SIt~~~~~~~~~V                       NO't    0.                                             WfAiJEONTM
5140. . .m'o  ~~~~~ l'0"I 150110
111141 left,"
I'  5'5   l'NO 1141   .  51141    II  .         I      4      5    .         51I                          kn
lIt                    ''S41' 5e'.                 NOS       0'       * cNI'?  111'OWNNO   .              WT                     NIvaaim
5110           V"'0    P"t   ri't   I'l   I'l
2.5            IS     t VA    If tI Vo             119.4    0.           I            I           I                                 k  b wms
56 . I0    I'   I'S         V 6 41      N-I'     0                                                                 A           IsIDSmo
viz.   .      SN    I'll   1     41*1   6  Nt        at                              It*;oto  ISIC  W
415    .  .   .      *~~'IA  Ptt 005 50    11'       It    -    -    -                            WI              mwmiv amao
I'll    .             5'5    ' V I  '       NI'S     I       .    .    .      I            0       WI            410160           I
S l   I         t    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jjg~~~ m                                                         pW
S   OTq1lML.0A41111II                                                                                                                 W
YA- xauuv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  W '
-   --~~~~~nUO  -M j-  -     -t                                                 -  -
tutamos



-63-
mm~~~~~~~~~~1
oottb                        I="                                          ~~~~~~Table 6
um~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
11111111111                                                                11       -    741                                     7
M     MOM                    16.         i      it246     3.66. it  to         63.13            64   61.6 6. 641.6  634 IM             3
I.SOINVoMO                               0 Ii.    IM4    4 61      .         lid        Mt3.13   31 4  .4U0.6        i    4        J
43613636      16.         6.    64    66A  iO    f- 61  64        0        I4 4.6646,     4 14 66.    96 .6 46 4  .m
18.1.6      w 13mm                                                                                64413, 6,46.    Is.   14            .4 It,
4136955           4*.                36    166~~~~I  In   M.6    M.1  I'm3 4.   .6  U.    44    6.   14     2.6   M.4        6
18.7618 16    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~11    8             rA     2      0           Im                 .4   6.6   M.    6.41. all           66.
36363  MU                                    i     ina363        M6      *    .4"       a 16     .36     4U . IM       t'4.1         1.
we7.6 U16inM3M                                                           M1.4   36al   4   1.1 1.3     I                            .1    13.6
MIL 6361.                                                      I'mU36 1  36   66       41.          4.7   6.?  46.3  61.1   6.1   am
18474A3961115110
23686  IMA11.   3,o  174  it"4  tat   3t   31.1
4.4313111M FI
mm*1. a36                                              36 1436.4    136               6         31    14 36.    014   46     166.
t. mn,o 
1. Us 31          -
arn                       46.         36           .611.6       .43I'   .O   1.13       14  6.   1  .6   64,  11.6  .13.             Li6.
1.33                                                                                 11.~~~~~~~~~~    tM 130  O 14  t 4 3 .    46. 14   77.4  616,  36.6
16.  16    36  143  6.6   3.4               1.43         1    ' 1, 6.4   46    to 162.4             3.6
36.46 33413                                                                                    -
£1.131111                 16W  .             M     no 13  .3    6,361  6.36   1.4       41         II$  2166   4.2.  111   666  64d.4
13 mu.                    M6                 M6 61.666   1.11   6.4*0  1.46             1.1         1.1    2 4   I.,  6.1   1,4   34.6
4315                                                                                                14G6  6614  31.1  364  43.4 0416.0
1Wm                       M6.                 3       .36   I,S3 4 ,36      ts 1,4      9          41.4  1311,  M7A.  43.6  U.)4 6.4"A
po6161,163                ..                  W6  I,3M  1,4    4.36    , 4  16.3       U4.         IJ6   "41   61P.3  W31   466.2 6.43.4
111368Ms                  64.          .      6   ,    3,36   6,361  4.43 6.4            1 u6.14   4.1   4.4  61.1  66,1   46.
631113  431167j                                                                                    77.6   =S        41 44, 011 6 .9410.  16I.e.
63W                                                 so  36   33 to M   M                       .   .6466.166411194
1343                      1.                        W166         M6 6          6 M      5,3    *      *    .1.     4.1   .   Is& 6 1621.
136143                                                    LO. 314   333        to                 04*    * ,3$          6.3   t.1    1.6
13476681  ~~~~~~                                                     46.4  *.~~~~~ 196, 6.14, 6164191  4.l691,6
?e4310433611361                                                                                          04   000.44 144.63.147.76.6,613. 1 643.6394.?
3t. MUM        on
4=1110                    a~*    3      a9    4a     6      A4     it     M       M611.6  74 Im       .   11. II* 1.4   3.4  641.6
nm   121101                      a 4    2     3 a          U  46     46    644    -39   M,     1.6  1231  I7,   3.6   346.     M.6
I"u         c m                                                                                    3.61   11.1   3,4  47.1  16.0  114   36.
1416                                                                                                666.6 I,3,,61,443,71.36.4 6.37,. .2. 66,
lm  Ofil~-                                                                         .    -            - 



H
XG)
1-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I2                       '    tz* * ***    S!9 -gi**   'I*  * , i i1tt2;;5 *,;                    '. ~  *°°|*.---. gl| c   | 
| t} i*  *  tB s> t5  1  2n >gt-                                                    i *      ..*!- o9P-ls+_* ^;|P!tS    
*3 0        un  :: | tR   * *. *  * 2   W  3-  "  °- °- i S3 t *  ¢ '¢ ' | ~'     Pt ~"  °   '   '.e !.° -   - -  - - - - - -
f3  ,                                                          ". ' 't _--T-  -     . . . . . .L.I
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                  -    -   -   -     -s -   - s -  .          
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - -P - -                                            
ri~~~~~~
PI ra  I   II ~   ~      ~      ~     ~     **-**-              .*-- 
*  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



-65-
Annex VI
Table 8
ETIIII PU
rabl. 401. iESEtCH
tilesid tat Table
gow costs
00abtlth                                            (Bite  000)
uiMt Cost
i(ut    WV87 07n8i 8889 8919  90/91 91n92 Total  (tin)l   W6/V 871BB S          89"0 90Q1 9192 Total
1. IMESTWEIT COSTS
M  mm stas                                                                       -                -  5.0    -    -    -    -    5.0
4 lD WOCLE             e           ah         2    -    -    -          -        2    43,000  90.0                 -                90.0
It'S (488)                        e           I    I    - 1    -           -    2    4530C0   45.0  45.0    -                       90.0
mm13 B0ES gmdh                                4    -    -    -        -          4      2.800   11.2    -     11.2
NiCG cIER                         each        I    -    -    -    - -            1       00    5.0  -      --                        5.0
CALC3LATOR                        wh          a    -                 -        8       4Q0    3.2    -      3.2
Tr UITER                          ew          I-           - -    -            I     3.000   3.0    -    -       -     -3.0
P3WTOC     MINE                   each                                           1    15.000      -  15.0    -        _ _3S0
Total U4£5TRET cOSTS                                                                             157.4  65.0          -           -  222.4
Irr  art #   rtrr rr      r rart zItr
11. RECUT  ESTS
REREM (AMER                     mua t        1    I      1    I          I     t    6    UMoe   12.0  12.0  12.0  2.0  2.0  12.0   72.0
RESWCN aSStSTnS                a/war         2    2    2    2    2    2   U           9tO  10.0 10.0  18.0  18.0 18-    0  18.0  100.0
TA8LAR                         Aso/war       2    4    4    4    4    4   22          6,000  12.0 24.0  24.0  24.0 24.0  24.0  132.0
CTARY                             aa         -    I    I    1    I    I    5          4,s80      -4.0 48     404.  4.S   24.0
O8IWRS                          eaa          -    2    4    4    4    4   1           3.600      -  7.2  14.4  14.4  14.4  14.4   64.0
U'.ItE a I A9                    a            u g  -  -   -                  -                54.0  72.0  72.0  72.0  72.0  72.0  414.0
BU0   S MINTEiWE                 Su         -    -    -    -                   -  2.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0   14.0
FLEU PECT                        VA          -    -    -        -   -    -    -               15.0 6S.0 50.0  50.0  50.0 30.0  280.0
IDTERNTI1W. CM ORATI8H           um- -    -    -                                             300.0 380.0 460.0 460.0 380.0 300.0 2.280.0
.ISC. EXPENSES                                                                                so -30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0  30.0  180.0
Total ECRREOT COSTS                                                                              441.0 6f150  8.2 688.2 608,2 528.2 3.560,8
Total                                                                                             S98.4 680.0 400.2 68t.2 60t.2 S28.2 3t791.2
l(ach 27. 1956 09o16



..        -- -- ---- ---------
-----------   -------- ".----- .                                       , .     -                        - 
.....~~~~--                                 -  --    -                                 .. .  o     .   .   ... .. .. .    - .  ....  -. 
F oh
.....~~~~~2 . . ^.  . . . .......                                                   ....                           ,       ..                      ..| 
-- pP     g -
LIi~N~                                      Z                                                                                                     ---  - : 9oc c                     5
X *; * | w-                                                              [Ii                                                                                I   .#*  



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 502+ PROJECT IHPIMENTATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost table
Base Costs
uantit-                                                   (Birr 000
__________________________r  suni t * o Xt                    ------r------  ----- -----~ --------
UJnit  86/87 87188 88/89 89/90 90/91 911/2 Total   (Pirr)    86/97 37/88 88/89 99/90  9r °l,925 '0631
1. INVESTMENT COStS
SENIOR FORESTRY
EXPERT                          to      12    12      -      -     -      -    24     24?000  288+0  288.0      -      -     -     -   57610
fI;MHCIAL CONTROLLER               m        1.    12     -      -     -      -    24      22400  264.0 264.0       -      -     -      -   528.0
FORESTRY RESEARCH
EXPERT                          e        6    12      6      -     -      -    24     22,000  132.0 264+0 132.0       -      -     -   528.0
MONITORING  EVALUATION
EXPERT                           m      12      6     6      -     -      -    24     22,000  264.0 132,0 132.4        -     -     -   52840
CONSULTANT                         o         -     2      2     2     -      -     6      22400       -  44.0  44,0  44,0       -      -   132.0
Total INESTHENT COSTS                                                                                948.0 992.0 308+0  44.0       -      - 2Y292.0
=:-=== C=5= 2=====_:- =es=== ::e  : ;_:
Total                                                                                                  Y4.#Q YYZ*V JMO.U  '94..61    -     -
Aril 21i 1986  13:01



-68-
Annex VI
EnaPI                                         Table 11
idld Cat 7*1.
Wit Csts
hilltCost ---                     
Uhnt     86f7  7/a 0UU      89/909 0/ni 91192 TotI  (iSrr)    W/ 8 7/88 e11i es/90 o /  91/9  Totl
- nf11 a - - ---Ma- -
(t. fELOL PS                                    studmt/asr        5    10   10   10    5    -   40    37260  186.3 372.6 3.6 M.6 186.3              -1,90.4
A. MIR                                             I/t w          S     5    --    -           -    10      5.t75   25.9  A.9     -    -    -    -   51.0
C.  TIR      FBST7T TEOIICIM
Pm   lUSEr                                                     -                      -           -                 -  8.5     -    -    -    *    a.5
eus -    2                                                                               - -    -    2    880o0e    -160.0     -    -    - -10.0
Tiil  II7TtRl.S                                  so                              -          -                          1. -    -    -    - tOO1b0.
euC      WDO   3                                 $chIO         -    I    -    -    -    - -             15- 0       - 15.0      -    -    -    -    15.0
IOB10OL  E1l111I1[4T                              Ith          -    t I          -    -     -     1      3,OOO      -   3.8    -    -    -    -    3.0
9b-TOtl T13111  i511    190         0                                                                                  - 196.5    -    -    -    -  196.5
Ttal tilE wT COM                                                                                                      212.2 595.0 32.6 32.6 16.3       - 1,73.7
It.      h   COS
A. T1*1 FETW  TOOICM
VITSLEClIMCs                                                  2    2    2    -           -     -    6    1t,0    20.0 20.0 20.0     -    -    -   40.0
YISITIS TE0Cr1                                   a            4    4    4    -           -     -   12   8,00,  32.0  32.0 32.0    -    -    -   96.0
BRIsM                                                         -    2    2    -    -    -    4           3,600      -     7.2 LZ    -    -    -   14.4
fnIUI                                           9*            -         -     -     -     -     -     -           s.5   1.8  Ile    *    -    -    5.0
-   -   -  -  -  -  -                               2.4 2.0 2.8  -  -  -  8.9
Fr  DN                                          sub           -    -      I    -         -     -     -          36.0  42.0 42.0     -    -    -   120.0
STUEi   CaSm                                    sub           -    -     -    -             -                    1,6  4.2  4.2      -    -    -   12.0
EXItSTI      O 11R1.
8tlO1                                        s4o           -         -     -     -     -     -     -          *.5  4.5  4.5      -    -    -    13.5
WN1u aIA O1acth                                               -    2    2    -           -     -    4  16t080     -  32.0  32.0     -    -    -   64.0
n1SC. Elis                                                    -         -     -     -     -     -     -         10.0  10.0  10.0       -        -   30.0
ba-Tos3 TR13531  fORESTRY TE78tItL0                                                                               110.0 156.5 156.5    -    -    -  422,9
D. ESEI  fSmES,
1.  .W4 ._   _._
SITE I BOCt bI                                 s-   - - - - - -    -    6,0 6.0 6.0 6.0 6.0 30.0
RS                                           P             -         -     -     -     -     -   -             -    .o00   8.0     .   s.    o 8. 40o.
Sou-Tol 515. slilb0t                                                                                              -  14,0  14.0  14,0  14,0  14.0   70.0
2. 113*013
SITE I mo miWE                               so            -         -     -     -     -     -     -            -  15.0    -    -    -    -    15.0
R1 S                                         VAss          -         -     -     -     -     - -                - 20.0      -    .     -    -   20.0
STUDY T DtR_>                                t             -    -    -    -    -    -             -             - tS,      -    .0     -    -   30.0
Sub-Toal UPO 13                                                                                                    - SS.0        15.0     -    -   65.0
9b-Total REFRi9E  815                                                                                                - 64.0  14.0  29.0  14.0  14.0  135.0
C. FmI.11ClS
tE19 t1D                                        s             -         -     -     -     -     -     -              -        - 40 0 40.0    -   e0.0
TEil                                            so            -        -     -     -     -     -     -            -    -    - 10.0  10.0       -   20.0
Sb-Total 8P8MC*ltlLS                                                                                                             _ 50.0  50.0         100.0
D. CF EMERtS MID ASCOMITY FTORESTS TR1N11W
897T1t WIAcIH 9Hh                                             -         -     -     _               - -                       '- 6.0    -  6.0      12.0
mS                         *                                        -        -     -     -     -     -                5.0  5.0  5.0  S.0  5.0   25.0
STUD    R -QIR -                                              -           -     - t-d---15.0    -  15.0    -    -   30.0
Su-Toutli tF     S  OID Cmam ltTY r08STERS T13Dt18                                                                   - 26.0  5.0   60  S.0  5.0   67.0
E. E8058 CAIUS
_M SE. l3--                                                                                                       -  7,0  7,0  7.0  7.0  7.0   35.0
-Ttal FORESTR CAMS -l0   7.o  '.0  7.0  7.0   35.0
ToWl eE T    sts                                                                                                     t11.0 253.5 102.5 112.0  16.0  26.0  7';.Q
totl                                                                                                                 322- 040.4 555. 404.6 760.3  26.0 2,498.6
hod,: ...., 1=9.s = 091  ...16  ......
berc VI 19t 0"t6



-69-
Annex VI
Table 1 2
£THIIPIA
fVESTRY PROJECT
Table 541. M9.CT IMENT1ATIO,
rM8TORIPS AND EVALUATIlO
Dtailed Cost Tabte
Blas Costs
t>wntttv                                            4Siff 'CCO1
Uit Cost
bLti   88/07 17/ T9/ WIN9 89/0 90/91 91/92 total  (hirr)   86/87 8718 898/89 89/90 9/91 91M2 Totl
i. UlSiEnu COsTS
4  IID lTCLt                  each        -    3    -    -    -    -    3    45,000           - 135.0    -    -    -    -   1lS.0
TYIPWITER (ai@lSH)            each        -    2    -    -    -    -    2          3,800      -  6.0      -    ^    -    -    6.0
SIREY EWIP8t                   set        -    I    -    -    -    -    3           6,500     - 19.5         -    -        -   19.5
9WLICATO6                     each        -    I    -                                                                           I-   1000      O.0
FI3E1T1t1                     S-2                                                             - 30.0    -    -    -             30.0
Total LNW T COSTS                                                                                - 200.5          _           -  280.5
11. REC   llT COStS
A. SAnIAIES
F083r1Y ECOMIISt         ba ar        I    I    I    I    I I1    6    15.800   15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0 15.0   90.0
FW EStES                 swne/ear     -    3    3    3    3    3   15    M2M0             - 36.0 M3.0 36.0 36.0   6.0  180.0
URAToSS                  w/yar        2    4    6    6    6    6   30           9,o00   18.0  36.0  54.0 54.0 54.0  54.0  270.0
SETMIES                  r.ivar       -    2    2    2    2    2   10           7.280     - 14.4  14.4 14.4 14.4  14.4   72.0
DRIMIS                      vear      -    3    3    3    3    3   15          4,000      - 12.0  12.0 12.0 12.0  12.0   60.0
W4-taUl S9AtIES                                                                           33.0 113.4 131.4 131.4 131.4 131.4  672.0
8. OP£RTI1iS I  TlEOICE
W aCWEI#f                 each        -    7    7    7    7    7   35    15,000           - 15.0 1J5.0 105.0 105.0 105.0  525.0
EWIIPE     0 I It         ass                        -    -                           -   5.0  5.0  540  5.0  5.0   25.0
STATWST                   s-- - - -                               - -            -        -1M, 10.0 IO 10 0.0 10.0  50.0
Sub-TotuIl 998109S a NAIUTEHIWE                                                              - 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0 120.0  6AO.0
Total 881188  COSTS                                                                           33.0 233.4 251.4 251.4 251.4 251,4 1272.0
rGe Se.S: fire S e. Zafs l    fl SSS Stt
Total                                                                                          33.0 433.9 251,4 251.4 251.4 251.4 1e412.5
Ranch 27. 1986 09:17



-70-
Annex VI
Table 13
ETHI8PIA
FORESTPY PROJECT
Project Comp'lnents bu Year
(Kirr 'OOC)
Base Costs                                Total
,k;87    87/88    88/89    8?/90    90/91    91192       Dirr    (US$ '000)
A, NEW PLANTATIONS
ADDIS ASADA                         2,756.8  5040.0  56522.3  4,953.7  3,432.8  2M597.5  24t303.2   11,740.7
rANR BAR                            3,084.1  1,695.2  1.B42.4  2.115.3  2,448.3  14818.8  13?004.2    6t2U.2
Sub-Total NEV PLANTATIONS               5,840.9  6,735.2  7,364.8  7f069.0  5,881.2  4,416.3   37,307.4  18,022.9
Bs UPGRADING OF ADDIS PLANTATIONS       2,766.0  4Y321.0  7,162.5  6.597.0  4t308.7  3,149,9   28r305.0   13t673.9
C. WOMUNITY FORESTRY                      561.8    877.5  1,521.0  2,131.4  1,562.5  1,495.2    8,149.4    3#936.9
Us RESEARCH                               598.4    680.0    688.2   688.2    608.2   528.2    30791.2    1,831.5
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
$ANAGE1ENT                          6t121.9  1,334.6   526.2   526.2   526.2   526,2    96561.3    4Y619*0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  948.0    992.0    308,0      44.0         -        -    2f292.0    1,107.2-
TRAINING                               322.2    848.4   555.1   484.6   262.3         26.0    2r498.6    1,207.0
MONITORING AND EVALUATION              33.0    433.9    251.4    251,4    251.4   251.4    1s472.5         711,4
Slib-Total PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION       7t425*1  3f608,9  1640.7  1,306,2  1,039,9    803.6  15t824.4    7,644,6
Total BASELINE COSTS                     17,192.1 16.222.7 18,377.0 170791.8 13,400.5 10,393.2   93,377.3  45,109,8
Physical Contingencies                 1,480.7  1s439.3  1,547.7  1,390.1    934,2    772.3    76564.3   3,654.3
Price Contingencies                      718.1  2Y216.6  4,507.8  64550.7  6,743.2  6,895.4   27t631.7   13,348.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                      19,390.? 19,878,6 24,432.5 257732,7 21,077,9 18,060.9  1286573.4   62,112.7
===:_===_ _=zz===_ ==:=__=_=_=  =5:=_==_==___   ==_=_==  ==z=z
Taxes                                 3,767.0  2,867.7  3,125.6  2,767.5  1,404.7    541.4  14v473.8    6,992.2
Foreign Exchange                      9,659.1  6y638*9  6,671.4  6,317.1  4588.9  2t992.0  36t867.4   171810.3
APril 21. 1986  13:04



EMOPIA
FOREST  PRO*CT
S&mari  Aour by Provit C_wont
(Birr '000)
PROT IIWITAtIO
1tE PLANTATIONS    UPU1ADI  OF                                                 _NTm-G
ADDIS     CUO9ITY                       TEIAL                 MID
ADDIS ADAA MM 3   POM  IIATIONS  FRESTRY  RESEARCH NA      I   ANSISTICE T I  ENMMTIJU   ToMl             I  amat
it INIESTHERT COST5
-  .-- .-,----- - _
A. CIML MMRi                    9,w963.0  1,689.0    10P053,9     558.0       S.0        4,0         -        -         -  22,172.9  10.0 2.217,3
et YEHIOLES                       728.9   390.8      t1051*4      151,8    191,2       421.8         -   160.0      135.0   39230*9   0,0    0,0
C. EGUIPNENT!                     313.0  1,849,0        428.0      110.4     26.2    54213.0         -    36.5       65.5   8.041.6  10.0  804.2
2, ESTAPLISHOENT
MATERIALS                     4,107.9 2,380.8      4m921,9   39429.8         -      646.0         -        -         -  15W666.    5.0  785*1
LABOR                         5,127.0 4.10868      486.8   14603.9           -          -        -                   -  15,05   5.0  751.3
-                  -           -        -          -         - _   -            - _        - __ -         - I._.
Sub-Total ESTAILISIENT          9,234.9 6i489.6       9.108.7   59033,7        -       848.0         -        -             309714.9  510 1536.4A
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               -        -            -         -         -          -   2,292.0        -         -   2,92.0  10.0  229.2         7
F, TRAINING                           -        -            -         -         -          -         - 1.542.2          -   19542.2  52   79.7
S. ANIMKLS                         17.5    10o0          45.o       180         -                                       -      90.5  10.0    9.1
Total IVESTMENT COSTS             20,157.3 10,428.4     20,687.0   5,871.9    222.4    6,486.9   2M292,0 1473867       200.5  68,04*.9   7.2 4,875.8
II. RECUET COSTS
A. MRATIN AN MAINTD             1,336.1   595.8      2,415*6     435.8  3,168.0       470.5         -   469.5      600.0   9491.3  11.7 1M108.4
B, SALARIESt ALLOWANCEW.
AND PR DIEN                  2,809.8  19690,0     5,202.4   19841.7    400.0    24604.0          -   2904       672.9      15.8011   l10.0 WW30I
'total RECUR   COSTS               4,14V.9 20575.8       74619.0  2M27.   3,568*9    3,074.5            -   759*9   1927240  25.292,4  10*6 2466.5    <
Total BASELINE COSTS               249303.2 13,004.2     26,305,0   9,149.4  3.791.2    9,561.3   2.220  2498.6   1,472.5  93.3773    6.1 7656413
Physical Contiencse,             1.f95,7   936.9       2270.6      572,7    4014        904.6     229.2   167.1      186.3   7t564.3   0.0    0.0
Dicee Contizencfes               7,403.4  4,049.1      912093   2,94.3  1t337*0    1.430*3       237.8   534.9      506.6  27.631*7   7.2 19-990.1
iota! PROJECT COSTS                33,602.3 17,990,1     39,703.9  11.716#4  5,529.6   11,904,2   20759.0 3M200.5   2.167.4  1280.54   7.4  554,4
Taxes                            4.034,1  1,582.2      4,870.7   1.093.6     90.8    2,300.0          -   t11.O      310.4  14J473.8   744 1,067.6
Soreign Erchanse                 9P475.? 4W860.6      109033,0   3367.3    130.5    4,742.9   29476.8 24032.5        740.1  36,867.4   7.1 29619.5
-- -------  ----- - ----- -          -----
k,i: :1. 1956 13:05
-a



EA .
FU    RSY ramT
Smnarv Accomts be Year
Isotels Ineludin Canti_nmies                             Totals Inu1I5a CrAninZies
(Birt '@00)                                              (9 @000)
W6/7    M79   WM  nm191   91/92   Ttal                     961     8/38  am    "M            9    91192  Tho
I. IMKESTMENT   0STS
A, CIV:L 1W1S                3,54.5 89M.3 10,1".9  7,136.5   162.2          - 29P246.3 1,717.2 3,962.5 4,923.1 3,447.6    78.4      - 14u1.7
L WMIMLES                    1,7r.2     t10    702.2   173A4       -        -  3S33      83.2  444*    339.2    83.8         -      - 117.1
C. EIJPIENT                  7P8E2.0 1934.1    35.5        -          -     -  9W261.6 3&807.7  649 3    17.2        -       -      - 4^474.2
D. ETf',bPlSIEN
MhTEIfAL3                 1.341.3 1,517*8 39409.  50764.2  54846.9 3.641.2 21P520*4   647,9  733.2 1,646.9 2784.6 2#824,6 1lsh  10 3N6.3
2M4.9 1,144.? 2#944s5 4t991*6 7,186.2 64329M6 22,7q91:    142:5  553.1 1v374.2 2411.4 3471.6 3fO57.8 11,010.5
Sub-Thtal ESTAPLISRHOT       1,636.2 24662.' 6,253.7 1H,755#8 13,033.0 9,970.8 44,312.2   790,4 1WSB6W3 3.021.1 5,196.0 6t296.2 4,816.8 21,406.?     t
E. MIMM1AL ASS1ST0CE         1?080.3 1v211.9   404.5    62.3       -       -  2759.0   521.9  515.5   195.4   ; 30.1         -      - 1,332.9
ri TWlGflE                     232.0   465.5   465.9   501.9   270.5       -  19935.7   112.1  224.9   225.1   242.5   130.7        -   935.1
A, N4LS                         81.0    13.8    12.4       -       -             197.2    391    6.7       6.0       -       -      -    s1.l
T2tal lIfESThET COSTS          16,03.3 14,821W2 18M065.0 18,629.9 13,465.? 9M 70.8 919155.8 7vJ.7 7160.0 8,727.o 8,999.9 6,505.2 440168 44036.6
Ul. ~EC1ME  WSThF
A. WEPITATI IAP NAIPTEI      PA IJ.^  2,068.5 29339.7 2,12.0 2,732.3 2#777.3  13Y849.4   574,7  99.6  1,130.3 14310.2 1,34.W 1,341.7  6690#.5  |'
SALeiCES. A' e  ECE,                                                                                                                        I
FR E' -              l- 1.?7.9 3re,0,8 4P02.8 4a390.8 4829Y.? S5312.8 23568.1   965.2 1,453.5 li945.f 2t121.1 2,333.3 256.6 11435.6        H
T'etd FE--,;.AW  £CSS          3.187.6 5,057.3 6,367.6 7,102.9 7,612.1 89090.1 37,417.5 2,539.9 2443.2 3,076.1 3,43.3 3,677.4 A3908.3 199076.1
=-   =-                                                      =  -
1-k31 MliECT C*T2              19e390.9 1997.6 24432.5 259M32.? 21P077.9 18,060.9 128,S73.4 9,367.6 9603.2 11s,381 1243^12 10,182.64 87.51 62u112.7
4~~~~~~~~~~==_!=    



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Coonents by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                                Totals Including Contingencies
(Birr '000)                                                   (US$ '000)
6U/8    87/88 988/9   89/90    90/91    91f92    Total          86/87   87/88  88199   89/90   90/1    91/92   Total
A. 91EW PL;TATICS
ADDlE AAt1p                        3,109.7  6,188.2  7,337.5  7,149.8  5.352.9  4,464.2  33.602.3  1t502.3 2M989.5  39544,7  3y454.0  2M586.0 2W1566 16Y233.0
P8W  DAP                          3b474.2  2,080.8  2.431.8  3,026.4  3.834.2  3,142.6  17,990.1  1,678.4 1,005.2  1t174.8  1?462*0  1,852.3 1.518.2 8.690.9
Sut-Total NEV PLANTATIONS             6,584.0  8W69.0  9,769,3 10,176.2  9M187.2  7,606.8  51,592.4  3,180.7 3,994.7  4,719,5  44916.0  4,438.2 3,674.8 24#923,9
P. UPGRADI#G DF AXUIS PLANTATIONS     3,121.5  5)277.9  9,511,6  94600#8  6,733.4  59458,6  390703.9  1.507,9 2,54907  4,595.0 46638.1  3P252.9 2,537.0 19MU80.6
C. CONUNIt FOURSTPY                     632.4  1.076.0  l,999.4  2,995,7  2,449.9  2,563.0  11,716.4   305.5  519.8   965.9  1,447,2  14183.5 1.238.2  5?660*1
P. RESEARCN                             676.8   853.3   953.4  1,048.7  1,020.7   976.7  5,529.6   326.9  412.2   460.6   506.6    493.1  471.8  2,671.3
E. PPOJECT IPLENENTAT ION
fIANAENENT                         6e499.1  1.652.0   725.6   796.2   873.8   957.5  11,904.2  3,332.9  798.1   350,5   384.6   422.1  462.5  5450.9
TECYN41CAk ASSISTANCE              1080.3  1,211.9   404.5    62.3           *        -  20759#0   521*9  585.5   195*4    30.1             -       -  14332.9
TRAINfK                              358.9  1q00381    718.4   671.0   396.6    47.5  3M2005    173.4  487.0   347*0   324.1   191.6   22.9  1,546.1
ONITOPINO AND EVALuJATION             37.9   530.3   350.4   381,8    416.2   450.7  2,167,4          18.3   256.2    169.3    184.5   201.0  217.7  1,047.0
^rb-Tvt1 F0PJECT I1PLEMENTATION      8,376.3  4,402.4  2,198.8  !Y9'1.3  1W686.6  1455#7 20,031#1  4,046.5 2,126.8  1P062,2   923.3   814J   703,2  9,676*8
Tecta PROJECT COSTS                    19,390.9 19,878.6 24f432#5 25,?32.7 214077.9 18,060.9 128,573.4  9,367#6 9,603.2 11,803.1 12,431.2 10,182.6 8025.1 624112.7
2==_==:=== - =Z ==== :                                                                            -- -- -- -- -  -  -:- 
Aril 2i1  1°86  13'0-
OH 



-74-
ETHIOPIA
Table 17
FORESTRY PROJECT                  I    1
SEEDLING PRODUCTION COSTS, COMMUNITY FORESTRY I1
Birr
Labor 760 man days Q Birr 2.30                        1,748.00
Hand tools                                               50.00
Seeds                                                   136.00
Plastlc tubes                                           900.00
Fertilizer 189 kg @ Birr 1.00                           189.00
Mscellaneous                                             42.00
Total                                                 3,065.00
Unit cost of seedling                               Birr 0.06
1/ A nursery of 47,250 seedlings.



-.75-
Annex VI
Table 18
ETHIOPIA                Page 1 of 1
FORESTRY PROJECT
SEEDLING PRODUCTION COSTS, PLANTATIONS 1/
Birr
Labor 27 man days e Birr 30                             81.00
Equipment                                               90.65
Hand tools                                               2.70
Seeds                                                    7.20
Fertilizer 10 kg @ Birr 1.0                             10.00
Plastic tubes                                            5.00
Plastic sheets                                           9.80
Miscellaneous (chemicals, planks,nails etc.)            13.40
Total                                                  219.75
Unit cost of seedling                            Birr 0.09
1/ Assumes 2,500 seedlings per ha.



-76-
Annex VII
30Apr.86                           MI~E=TA                 Table 1
13S11v 9CIIWI (W  DWM                CP ID CRED1r
Diaburesiata (tlS$ Miiai)
Mi Fisca1                      By Hd                         uJlati
Year    Quarter              Qiarter      Quuatiue   % Diw
1987    Seber 1986            0.0            0.0              0
Decube  1986         03             0.3              1
Marh      1987        1.1           1.4              3
June      1987        1.6           3.0              7
1988      1tzber 1987         1.7            4.7             10
Decadkw  1987        1.7            6.4             14
March    1988        2.2            8.6             19
June      1988       2.2           10.8             24
1989    $eptexber 1988        2.4           13.2             29
December 1988        2.4           15.6             35
March    1989        2.5           18.1             40
June      1989       2.5           20.6             46
1990    8epkember 1989        2.5           23.1             51
Deceder 1989         2.5           25.6             57
March    1990        2.4           28.0             62
June      1990       2.4           30.4             68
1991    Septelber 1990        2.0           32.4             72
December 1990        2.0           34.4             76
March    1991         1.9          36.3             81
Jiue      191        1.9           38.2             85
1992    Septeber 1991         1.2           39.4             88
Deceiber 1991        1.2           40.6             90
March    1992        1.1           41.7             93
June      1992       1.1           42.8             95
1993    Septedber 1992        0.6           43.4             96
Deceiber 1992        0.6           44.0             98
Mbrch    1993        0.5           44.5             99
June      1993       0.5           45.0            100
Espected date of signIg       :July       1986
E&Tpeted date of effectiveness: October  1986
Expected completion date      : Deceber  1992
Bqxected ctosinB date         : June      1993



Disbursement Profile
'IO~ -~
840 
-4-40 
70
-  rl0A _/7' -.--                                                ,        f
20
1 987      1C38 8t I189          1 990     1 991      1 992      199.3
IDA Fihsca Yerar
0T p r tx><lsecJ pc.,je.t        +          E.Africz. F-orestr(
H
i-



86187  87D881  88489  89/90  9/1  91292 94/4 0   919   965 92/96 4130         305   UA    VA
mS IE1T                  6.2   16i.5   20.3   20.3   16.2   9.5   4.6
-II   lrn -1110.4  -0.1    0.2    0.4   0.4  -04   -0.1    0.2    0.4   0.8   13.5   8.0   11.   17.
AMUT  AIMU -  i        -0.1  -0.1  -0.1  -0.1    0.1    0.3   0.5    2.8   4.9   6.7  36.1  30.9   24.8  26.3
2A         - -BElP.  -1.3   0.0    ' '    2.7   6.2   0.3  -0.2    2.3   3.9   8.3   41.9  34.0  29.1  31A
aUUIflR11S             0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5    1.0   1.5   2.0
TML  Dww                  4.4  16.3   21.9  23.3  22.9   9.7    5.3   6.3  10.7  17.8   91.5  72.9  653   75*3
I  t 0tWlS              15.6   17,0   21.3  23.0  19.7  17.5    8.8   7.8   7.7    7.2  31.5  38.0  38.0  37.0
1  8EBZ                  0.0   0.1   0.1    0.3   0.4   0.6   0.6   0.7   0.7   0.7   13.7  13.6   13.4  13.3
WM1tAL W                 15.6  17.1  21.4   23.3  20.1  18.1    9.4   8.5    8.4   7.9   45.2  51.6  51.4  5D3
11B UnaII               -11.2  -0.8   0.5   0.0    2.8  -8.4  -4.1  -2.2   2.3    9.9   463   213   13.9  25.0
M*ATMlFI  MM lllFJ      -11.2  -12.0  -11.5  -11.5  -6.7  -17.1  -21.2  -23.4  -21.1  -11.2  35.1  56.4  70.3  95,3
1 /ot of tan..
2 / &ice crge at 0.7w pe yer for 50 ys
with a 10 yr grace psiAdl on prial.



Annex VIII
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
Foresety Project
Implementation Schedule
Calender Year
1986     1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992
PpF Activities
Aerial Surveys                   L. j
Socio-Economic Surveys           I   I
Nursery Establishment
State Forestry Program
New Plantations                             I                                                I
Plantation Upgrading
Community Forestry Program
New Plantations                                           I                                  I
Plantation Upgrading                                      i
On-Farm Planting                                I_I
Institutional Planting
Prolect Implementation
Appointment of Consultants
Senior Expert
Forestry Research
Financial Controller
Monitoring & Evaluation                I   J       L_J   L_J
Research Program
Training Program
Overseas Training                      L
In-Service Training
Civil Works Constuction                I
Road Construction                      I                                             I
Forest Villages
Vehicle Procurement                 I            .
Equipment Procurement                  L                  i



-80-
Annex IX
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
LIST OF MATERIALS AVAILABLE
IN THE IMPLeMENTATION VOLUME
ITEM  1:  Guidelines for Working Plans for Peri-Urban Plantations:
Upgrading of old Plantations, Addis Ababa.
ITEM  2:  Guidelines for Working Plans for Peri-urban Plantations:
Objectives, Strategy and Common Features.
ITEM  3:  Guidelines for Working Plans for Peri-Urban Plantations:
New Fuelwood Plantations,
ITEM  4:  Guidelines for the Selection and Admission of Urban Dwellers'
Associations/Peasant Associations to the Project Community
Forestry Operation.
ITEM  5:  Guidelines for Basic Forestry Work Plans for Urban Dwellers
Associations/Peasant Associations.
ITEM  6:  Guidelines - Silvicultural Regimes for Upgrading Derelict
Plantations.
ITEM  7:  Guidelines - Silvicultural Regimes for New Fuelwood Plantations
(Supervised and Self-Help).
ITEM  8:  Guidelines for Agreement: Self-help UDA/PA Upgrading and
Planting.
ITEM  9:  Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference
ITEM 10: Draft Terms of Reference for Mid-Term Review.
ITEM 11: Summary of Proposed Research Program.



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
PROPOSED PROJECF ORGANIZATION
N^TU91tV itttiOLiPCtS ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       comiit
DCPAittO$X
NATURAl. N~~~~~~~~~~~~OuRC~0A                                                     RRA
IjAIDl'NIU.e LreRstt
ITNS!NVSI O .        ___CTI.DININ
I VAJSA                                                                                            I      AA *t                                      ATI-"
A N T   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   W q A O t M ~ I tAUN I T   IA I  N  3 J .         N I t u I   O N
F   I-NMUNITY               tammA                                                                                              UNI
sitSf i-+   wrtefrtt4  |                                                                                                       Fi~~~~~          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAC  I   PRAiL
ORCSER           1REitStRi                                     VL^riTitOtt             FD0158*i6                                       Ktc^oi
~~,  I                                                                                                                                                              UT                   C(._. 1--
DatStisr 0 piM               tYt0 tOtiwUYIR                                                         Io"Ac                                                        I              I                     I  1
~GR!STh                                  GAHINDDANADDS ABAB
W B13
WORLD BANK 30398A



ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
PRESENT ORGANIZATION
4vo
OIPAATMSr.t              40555ff AT*^ttVC
05 PA555AtCETS
.1__~~~~                                          ~         ~ .0lt I  1fcom4
"it, r^tff~a,is     D.stVFLC   l            RUR L                 9R0501W  *
MASSautiTA DftTA         DcPARThE'? TAiN OS ,RTUC',                 NM'S 0!PARIuC'T
r~~~~~~~o iT                 I        0 R §.c                                         -io                                                  -     _     AI   _,              SA MIL   &
| i'S.          |     70'SStr^T S            5O'SS                 P R A'NINOR            R(S CA'S              U?I'ZAT,O'S          rONSCWY.0A"  A mp, 5 PNOOUPXIAN                5QINCUSCS IH&NC
I ,"D O SS'SAltS                AlO"SCSER          AND QSl.JaO"T              C                     CStAf                                     AN0 5tAfKCTI4            9TCRIISC                   Stb
`~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ to
D(PA'S'SER' OL'W                                                                                                                                      6AN'K    £SArCffft'D(
WORLD BANK 303988



36 
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Areas
,       Proposed Planting Areas                                                                        Dangla    f   AH
Existing Plantation Area                                                                                        A V
Paved Al-weather Roads                      m)
Gravel All-weather Roads                     i                                                                    N
-   ~Rivers                                        1
@3  Administrative Region Capitols 
Community Forestry Area
Boundaries
-     Administrative Region
Boundaries
- * -t International Boundaries
-=0                                  ;          Asosa
o       20       AC       60   /
0    20   40   60   80  100
Kilometers
I                                           _A
Th',zffi>:3rrII                                                           Gtry,bi        _E EP1
S  r"D A  N '  AOe WxA ('r  5
J , . ,,. ,.,=>,s,I                                                                                              K
ra t? "1    I ¶ -S  8 3'ik 3<030
Ar-e'. '.r   Cttr
eN.-.f ' 1 t o ' :' ' - f.  ss.-1C.-
33¼&                   ?A D-  *'1 0gt                                                                     A
AD'  a' ' :)kAt'  B'
SJ< )At,   /  OB
I ~      , /-   i==w/
s~~~~~ ~                            // r,Ah                                p3A   %E< .\  S    
Atxa                                                            Gore                            aro
.!.oun8- ./
j~~~~- - a                                                                                                     JM .  .              A g      #8



