Do_nt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4342-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 39.6 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 29, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT 1/
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (Br)
US $ 1.00 = Br 2.07
Br 1.00   = US $ 0.48
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government: July 8 - July 7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)        =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m.ton)  =  2,205 pounds (lb)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AID ACRONYMS USED
CFD   -  Community Forestry and Soil Conservation Development Division
NRMD  -  Natural Resources Conservation and Development Department
PA    -  Peasant Association
PMU   -  Project Management Unit
MOA   -  Ministry of Agriculture
SFD   -  State Forests Conservation and Development Division
UDA   -  Urban Dwellers' Association
WCHE  -  Wood and Charcoal Production and Marketing Enterprise
1/ The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian birr
has been constant from 1973 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Ethiopia
Amount:          US$45.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
C,
Project Description:
The project would increase the supplies of fuelwood and
building poles to Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar by
establishing plantations and upgrading existing
plantations in nearby areas. Approaches used would be
through direct Government control and management of
plantation operations and through mobilizing the
cooperation of members of Peasant and Urban Dwellers'
Associations in community tree pianting activities. The
project would finance the establishment of 11,000 ha of
state forest plantations and the upgrading of 13,000 ha of
existing plantations occuring in large blocks. Communuity
forestry activities would consist of: (i) state supervised
forestry activities for the establishment of 1,600 ha of
new plantations and upgrading of 1,000 ha of existing
plantations; (ii) self-help forestry activities for the
establishment of about 8,500 ha of new plantations and
upgrading about 2,700 ha; (iii) planting trees around
homesteads and community buildings, amounting altogether
to about 250 ha.
The project would also support applied forestry research
aimed at improving forest plantation technology and
in-service and post graduate training to update staff
knowledge and provide the necessary graduate forestry
staff. A Project Management Unit would be established,
which would be assisted by a Project Coordinating
Committee. Monitoring and Evaluation would be supported
within the Ministry of Agriculture. Technical Assistance
would be financed in forest management and research,
monitoring and evaluation and financial management. The
project would finance civil works, vehicles, machinery,
road construction, forest nurseries, office equipment, and
incremental operating costs.
Th document has a rstried distribution and may be usd by recpients only in te perfonnance
of thei oici dueLs Its contents may not otherwis be discod without Wd Bonk auBxwthtbi



-ii-
The Project would encourage community participation in
plantation protection and tree planting. Marketing and
pricing arrangements would be changed so as to provide
incentives that would encourage planting.
Benefits and Risks
The principal benefit would be increased fuelwood
production. The total incremental production would be
about 871,000 m3 annually at full development which would
reduce the current deficit in the project area, and would
help to provide soil and environmental protection to
sustain agricultural production.
The main risks of the project are related to t:he ability
to introduce protection for the forest resourne, which has
been regarded as a free good for some years; _he
possibility that Associations prepared to cooperate in
community forestry activities may not reach targets
expected; and, the maintenance of effective incentive
prices and free marketing for a proportion of the fuelvood
produced. To lessen these risks, the project would
provide for strengtnened forestry extension services to
motivate community participation in forestry services and
protection and to monitor prices and marketing
continuously. The project would maintain a flexible
approach permitting greater emphasis and support during
implementation for those activities which prove most
successful.



-ili-
Estimated Costs
Local        Foreign        Total
US$ Million
1. New Plantations                         13.0           5.0          18.0
2.i Upgrading Plantations                  10.0           3.7          13.7
3. Community Forestry                       2.7           1.2           3.9
4. Research                                 1.8           0.1            1.9
5. Project Management                       2.6           2.0           4.6
6. Technical Assistance                     0.1           1.0           1.1
7. Training                                 0.4           0.8            1.2
8. Monitoring and Evaluation                0.5           0.3            0.8
Total Base Costs                           31.1          14.1           45.2
Physical Contingencies                      2.5           1.0            3.6
Price Contingencies                        10.7           2.7           13.3
Total Costs a/                             44.3 b/       17.8           62.1
Financing Plan
IDA                                        27.2          17.8          45.0
Government                                 17.1           -             17.1
Total                                      44.3          17.8           62.1
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year           87     88      89     90     91      92     93
Annual                   3.0    7.8    9.8    9.8    7.8    4.6    2.2
Cumulative               3.0   10.8   20.6   30.4   38.2   42.8   45.0
Economic Rate of Return        16X
Staff Appraisal Report      Report No. 6096-ET           Dated May 29, 1986
Map IBRD No. 19596.
a/ Includes U.S.$445,000 financed under a PPF
WI Includes taxes and duties of $7.0 million



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO kIOPIA
FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR 39.6 million (US$45.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a forestry project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683a-ET) entitled
'Ethiopia, Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospectst, Ws
circulated to the Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's
findings, and the conclusions of an economic mission that visited Ethiopia
in March and April 1985, are reflected in the following paragraphs.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The boundaries of Ethiopia embrace a wide diversity of cultures,
and have contained a long and vivid history. Centuries of tradition have
been recently overtaken by fundamental social and political change.
With a population of about 43 aillion in 1985, Ethiopia is the third most
populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and Egypt). It is also one of
the poorest, and In terms of social indicators, one of the least
developed. About 89 percent of the total population is rural. The
country's land area extends over 1.2 uiliion square kilometers and may be
broadly divided into two main geographical zones, namely: the highland
plateau of central Ethiopia, and the surrounding lowlands. Its capital
city, Addis Ababa, located in the central highlands, has a population
estimated at around 1.5 million.
4.        Agriculture accounts for about 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of
exports, and 85 percent of total employment. Crops account for about 80
percent of the gross value of production and livestock for most of the
rest.  The main food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal), maize,
barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal export
crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings. Other
export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years.   Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper, soda ash, and
potash. Some petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no
petroleum reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been
exploited on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitation of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in



- 2 -
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less.  Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-based industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry. Public
sector control and ownership covers almost all of large and medium-scale
manufacturing, all of banking and insurance, shipping, railway, airways,
utilities, and a large proportion of construction. Handicrafts and small
industry are operated by private owners. Domestic trade, especially retail
trade, and road transport are still largely in private hands.
5.        GNP per capita is estimated at around US$110 (1984) and an
estimated 60 percent of the population lives below the absolute poverty
level. Health serv±ces are limited and require major improvements to
combat high rates of morbidity, and infant and maternal mortality, worsened
by the drought. Life expectancy is still only about 46 years. Housing and
sanitation facilities, especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent
attention. Despite Ethiopia's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation, and economic development in general. Nearly three-quarters
of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk from all-weather roads.
The Drought
6.        The drought and famine in 1984/85  caused human suffering on an
unprecedented scale. The number of people needing assistance soared to
nearly 8 million. In response to the Government's appeals for assistance
and its efforts in dealing with the crisis, UN agencies, bilateral donors,
multilateral agencies and non-government organizations have provided a
record US$470 million in relief assistance, compared with the past (para.
8). The Government's hopes for some respite from the drought situation
were raised by improved rainfall in recent months albeit with less-than-
normal intensity. It is too early to say whether the increased interest of
donors in Ethiopia due to the drought disaster, will be successful in
generating significantly increased concessionary aid for long term
development. The drought relief effort, as well as the Government's
programs to rehabilitate drought-prone areas and to resettle drought
victims in the western provinces, have severely strained the Government
administration, and temporarily directed manpower and financial resources
away trom other development activities. In any event, the resettlement
program, which the Government is currently consolidating, needs to be
evaluated in terms of its potential benefits and costs before new proposals
are formulated.
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
7.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 percent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the same
period. These achievements have not, however, been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1983/84, GDP grew
at an average annual rate of only 2.5 percent in real terms.



- 3 -
8.         The economy witnessed a set-back during the three years from
1980/81 to 1982/83, with GDP growth declining to an average rate of around
3.1 percent per annum, compared with the highs of around 5.5 percent per
year during 1978/79 and 1979/80. This adverse trend became more pronounced
during the past two years owing to the recent drought. GDP declined by 2.4
percent in 1983/84 and by 6.8 percent in 1984/85. The principal causes for
the set-back in economic growth in recent years were droughts and
inappropriate policies (para. 14) which affected agriculture, and capacity
constraints (notably in industry), owing to low rates of investment in the
past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has remained for many years at
around 11 percent, due largely to constraints on domestic as well as
external resources. Domestic savings have averaged around 3.4 percent of
GDP during the four years ending 1983/84, partly reflecting the basic
consumer needs of a low income country and the high expenditure on defense
and security. Domestic savings turned negative in 1984/85 with total
consumption exceeding output. Apart from the recent increase in emergency
aid arising from the drought disaster, official development assistance
averaged only around US$9 per capita per year as compared to over US$20 per
capita for developing countries in Africa.
9.        The external current account deficit has continued to widen; it
reached US$416 million, equivalent to 8.6 percent of GDP in 1983/84. The
situation further deteriorated in 1984/85 with depressed exports and
increased imports; the current account deficit reached the equivalent of
about 13 percent of GDP - the highest in the past decade. Meanwhile, net
external reserves turned negative during 1984/85, owing to heavy drawdowns
but ended with a positive balance in June 1985. The external debt service
ratio increased significantly to about 22 percent.
10.       Notwithstanding these recent adverse trends, the Government's
fiscal and monetary management has been generally prudent.   The country
has a relatively competent public service and in general, its ministries,
departments and most public enterprises are reasonably well managed. The
overall budget deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for the period
1978/79 to 1981/82 and modest current account surpluses were achieved in
these years. But since then the fiscal deficit has followed an uneven
path. During 1982/83, the overall budget deficit rose to a level
equivalent to about 13 percent of GDP, principally due to a near doubling
of capital expenditure and an increase in current expenditure, reflecting
in large part a government decision to settle arrears due to parastatals in
one year. The overall deficit was brought back to a level equivalent to
6.2 percent of GDP in 1983/84. Despite heavy drought related expenditures
in 1984/85, the Government controlled the fiscal deficit to the equivalent
of about 7.7 percent of GDP, imposing cutbacks on current expenditure and
special drought levies.
11.       The inflation rate (as measured by the Addis Ababa retail price
index) had dropped from an average of 13 percent during 1978/79 and 1979/80
to about 5 percent during the five year period ending 1983/84. But during
1984/85 it rose to an annualized rate of about 16 percent, largely
reflecting food price increases, following food shortages, which became
more pronounced since July 1984, owing to the drought.



4
12.       Despite the growing internal and external distortions noted
above, there has been little or no change in Ethiopia's economic policy
framework.   Official pronouncements have stressed from time to time the
importance of revitalizing agriculture through increased investment,
guaranteed producer prices and diffusion of improved technology to farmers;
the need to restore confidence amongst entrepreneurs engaged in small scale
industry; and the need to attract foreign investment and technology to
develop the country's resources. Other noteworthy steps include a Joint
Venture Code introduced in January 1983 to promote joint ventures between
foreign investors (public or private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and
the formulation of proposals to simplify and rationalize the system of
direct and indirect taxes and to make the tax system more income-elastic.
But actual progress in these directions has been very slow.
13.        There are a number of issues which require urgent attention.  It
is yet unclear whether the projected levels of investment can be financed,
given the low domestic savings rate, the claims of the drought and other
priorities for recurrent expenditure,  and the limited inflow of official
development assistance (para. 8). While overall budgetary deficits reflect
prudent financial management from an economic growth perspective, they also
Indicate the need to strengthen efforts in attracting wore external
concessionary assistance for investment. Likewise, with the value of
merchandise imports running at double the value of merchandise exports, a
major expansion in exports and/or import substitution, and restraints on
imports are called for, in order to reach a more sustainable external
current account deficit. Higher coffee prices in the short term and
projected lower oil prices in the medium term have no doubt, improved the
prospects in this regard.  But, Ethiopia's real effective exchange rate has
appreciated by over 40 percent against the trade weighted basket of
currencies during the five years ending January 1986. The overvalued
exchange rate and the lack of an effective package of export incentives
have tended to reduce margins for producers of export commodities in local
currency and have inhibited the growth of exports.
14.       As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Some Initiatives have
been made towards improving the Government's agricultural and marketing
policies, and a serious dialogue with the Bank is in process. Other
constraints include the low use of Improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate does not appear to
be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry. Although
there has been a remarkable Improvement in literacy and general education,
all sectors are affected by the shortage of mnagerial, technical and
professional staff, indicating the need for stepping up higher education.
Medium-Term Prospects
15.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably roads), low productivity In agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee) subject to international export quotas, a small
industrial base, and shortages of skilled manpower. Apart from this set of
unfavorable initial conditions, the availability of domestic resources for



-5-
investment is constrained by the Government's outlays on internal security,
while import capacity is constrained by stagnating exports and by low
levels of external resource transfers. The drought has no doubt, caused a
major setback, to the economy.
16.       Ethiopia's rapid population growth also poses severe problems for
the future. Population growth, currently estimated at around 2.9 percent
per annum, implies a doubling of Ethiopia's population in 26 years or less,
and threatens to absorb most of the gains in economic growth and social
welfare foreseeable in the next decade. The demand for food, energy and
social services would increase dramatically and will lead to adverse
consequences in the ecological balance. The net impact could be
stagnation or possibly a decline in the living standards of the Ethiopian
people. Unless steps are taken to reduce fertility through an expansion of
family planning servicen, there could be little significant Improvement in
per capita income nor of living standards. Ethiopia needs a multisectoral
population policy - which Implies an expansion and strengthening of basic
maternal and child health services into which family planning must be
integrated.
17.         There are three areas of policy reform which warrant immediate
attention.  They are the improvement of agricultural pricing and marketing
policies, an adjustment of the exchange rate to reduce external imbalance,
and financing the fiscal deficit through non-inflationary sources as far as
possible. Ethiopia needs to orient economic policy towards expanding the
directly productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, and to
increase economic efficiency in the use of resources. The incentive
structure in the agricultural sector needs to be improved in order to step
up agricultural growth, and the business climate for private small-scale
enterprises, particularly in industry, should be made more favorable for
increased investment, output and exports. In general, the authorities have
to make greater and more flexible use of macro-level policy instruments
(e.g. exchange rate and price policies) and less use of direct,
adm4nistrative controls. The attainment of higher growth rates would also
depend on raising the operational efficiency of public enterprises and on
alleviating skilled manpower shortages through better incentives and
greater emphasis on higher and technical education. There is also a need
to develop a more realistic macroeconomic framework for the Government's
forthcoming three year plan (beginning mid 1986) within the framework of
the Ten Year Perspective Plan and to present a well balanced portfolio of
viable projects. The financing of Increased public investment would call
for greater efforts in domestic as well as external resource mobilization.
Despite several constraints and limited room for maneuverability on the
part of Ethiopia's economic policy-makers, conditions exist for a GDP
growth rate of about 3 percent per annum over the medium-term, provided the
Government makes a concerted effort to increase savings and investment and
to pursue policies which foster accelerated growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
18.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 has totalled about
US$850 million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1986, consisting of 36
IDA credits totalling about US$743 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much



of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption
in new lending. Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only. IBRD's
share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of December 31,
1984,is estimated at about 3 percent, and IDA's at 27 percent. Their
shares of total debt service in FY1985 are estimated at about 9 percent and
6 percent, respectively. Bank lending focussed on the construction of
trunk roads, power and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s,
when Bank lending gradually shifted to agriculture and education. Since
1973, twelve credits totalling US$238 million have supported agriculture
and some attracted co-financing or other complementary assistance. Credit
1088-ET of February 2, 1981, together with co-financing from Sweden and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development, assisted the agricultural
minimum package program, a major part of the G-vernment's efforts to assist
peasant agriculture. Credits approved during 1984 and early 1985 supported
coffee processing and marketing, telecommunications, education,
agricultural research, technical assistance, and a short term program for
drought recovery. A Credit for a Port Engineering and Construction Project
was approved in April and one for an Energy Project in May of 1986. A
Livestock Development Project should be ready for consideration in the near
future.
19.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally quite satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In
recent years, security problems have affected three IDA-financed
agricultural projects, but two of them eventually made satisfactory
progress. Some projects, especially in agriculture, suffered from
management problems. But projects in the highways, education, and
telecommunications sectors continue to have strong management. Financial
problems, rising labor costs and occasional shortages of construction
materials have also detracted from efficient project implementation on
occasion. Efforts to recover from the drought, and the resettlement
program, have recen-ly placed a particularly heavy burden on the
administration. However, the Government and the project management units
have generally been successful in resolving these problems. Ethiopia's
disbursement performance on projects assisted by the Bank Group has also
been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of disbursements to undisbursed
funds in Ethiopia for 1985 was 22 percent,  about equal to the Bank-wide
average and above the average for the Eastern Africa Region.
Assistance Strategy
20.       We propose to continue assisting the Government in devising and
implementing policies and programs to (i) improve the policy framework for
increased production and exports through economic and sector studies,
advice on agricultural pricing and marketing policies and assistance in
implementing the Government's Drought Action Plan; (ii) improve the policy
framework and institutional structure for domestic and external resource
mobilization and allocation through advice on tax reforms, as well as
better planning and monitoring of foreign aid; (iii) improve the policy
framework and institutional structure for public and private sector
efficiency, through advice on price policy reforms, and a clearer role for
the existing private sector; and, (iv) accelerate human resource



-7-
development skilled manpower development. In our economic work, we intend
to focus on resource mobilization issues, public investment reviews, export
incentive issue9, and human resource development. We have been carrying
out studies of the agricultural sector, including a joint study with the
Government on farmers' incentives and marketing efficiency, and also
studies of the industry, education, and population, health and nutrition
sectors. In our lending work, we plan to continue emphasizing the
productive sectors and essential infrastructure to help address the
country's capacity constraints and deteriorating terms of trade. A peasant
agricultural development project is being considered to help increase the
productivity and incomes of small farmers.  A livestock project soon will
be submitted for your consideration.   We are making concerted efforts to
arrange co-financing for proposed projects. Informal discussions are
underway but no decision has been taken concerning a possible donor
conference on 'Fthiopia, either a UNDP Round Table or a resumption of the
Consultativc: Group.
III. FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
The Setting
21.       The recent drought in Ethiopia demonstrated the fragile nature of
the country's ecology. Heavily forested at th.e beginning of this century,
the Ethiopian landscape today is largely wasteland and open savannah with
only about three million hectares of dense forest remaining in the
southwest. In the past 80 years, some 50 million ha of forests have been
lost in the process of clearing agricultural land and cutting wood for
domestic fuel. The impact on the ecology has been devastating; soil
erosion has increased and soil fertility declined. Recent estimates
indicate that erosion on about half the country's land area is causing
annual losses of some 2,000 tons of soil per square kilometer. Due to the
severe shortage and high cost of fuelwood, animal dung and crop residues
which should be returned to the land as fertilizers are being dried and
burned as household fuels, thus causing a decline in agricultural
production. The Government recognizes the urgency of reversing the present
deterioration of forests and is taking steps to encourage replanting, but
with population growing at an annual rate of three percent, the outlook is
not promising. Development plans for the next decade call for the doubling
of present forested areas, with the planting of three million hectares.
However, given the institutional capacity of the Government, an achievable
target would be less than half that amount. The project to be financed by
the proposed credit has been designed to address the critical needs, not
simply of technical assistance, but of institutional development, training
and actual tree planting, so as to lay the foundation for more rapid
implementation of a long-term afforestation program.
22.       Forestry plantations, mainly of Eucalyptus, are estimated to
total about 250,000 ha, of which about 20,000 ha are located near Addis
Ababa and 60,000 ha in the vicinity of other towns. Originally established
and managed by the private sector, plantation management passed to the



-8-
rural and urban associations in 1975. Because of poor management,
production has gradually declined to less than half of the potential.
23.       An estimated 80,000 people currently remove wood illegally from
the plantations for sale in Addis Ababa. Although a proportion are living
within the plantation areas, the majority travel each day from Addis Ababa
to collect wood. According to the Government, the income realized from the
sale of wood for most of these people is additional to other income and is
not the basis of subsistence or the only source of support. Approaches for
curtailing this activity are addressed in the proposed project with a view
to providing alternative employment, yet not reducing the supply of
fuelwood.
24.       kccording to Government estimates, which are based on traded
products, forectry provides about 2 percent to GDP. However, the inclusion
of the value of fuelwood at current market prices p3aces its true
contribution at about 7 percent. About 24 million r&3 of wood are produced
annually, of which some 10 percent is used for industrial and building
purposes and the remaInder for fuelwood and charcoal for domestic use.
About 35,000 people are directly employed in the forestry sector.
25.       Over 93 percent of Ethiopia's present energy supply is from
biomass, two-thirds of which is in the form of crop residues and dung, the
other third from fuelwood and charcoal. Almost all of the biomass energy
supply is for household cooking and heating. Annual demand for wood fuel
is estimated et 42 million m3 or about twice the present annual
production. Prices of wood frels have risen dramatically in the past
decade, and are now probably the highest in Africa. Scavenging for
fuelvood in agricultural zones, consequent deforestation and soil erosion,
and the use of dung and crop residues as fuel threatens sustainable
agriculture in many areas.
Institutional Setting
26.       For administrative purposes, Ethiopia is divided into 15 regions,
102 districts and 581 sub-districts.  But, for agricultural development
purposes, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) in 1984, divided the country
into eight agro-ecological zones. The zonal administration, headed by a
General Manager, is responsible for implementing approved work programs,
and contains representatives of the main departments in the ministry.
Central MQA staff are responsible for budget provisions, guidelines,
approval of work plans, and monitoring and evaluation as their principal
functions. Within MOA, the Natural Resources Conservation and Development
Department (NHMD) is responsible for forestry and soil conservation. NWKD
consists of five sections, three semi-autonomous agencies and a number of
service units. Professional foresters (degree or equivalent) numbered 120
in 1984. About 400 technical staff (diploma or equivalent), 850
lower-level technicians and clerks and 4,000 permanent field workers
comprise the remainder of NRMD staff. A total of 47 are receiving training
to BSc level and above at institutions abroad. Compared to needs, graduate
foresters, research workers and forestry teachers are in short supply.



- 9 -
27.       Under NRMD, the State Forest Conservation and Development
Division (SFD) is responsible for demarcating, conserving and managing
designated state forests. Most of the reforestation projects and forest
development programs are implemented through SFD. Operations have been
constrained by lack of funds, transport and trained staff. Frequent
changes in leadership have affected planning and policy decision making.
Nevertheless, some reforestation activities have been undertaken in
drought-prone catchment areas and plantation establishment has been
successfully initiated for some urban centers. In order to einable SFD to
manage an expanded forestry program, its management and planning functlons
will need to be strengthened and its authority over plantations and forest
areas increased.
28.       Also under NRMD, the Community Forests and Soil Conservation
Development Division (CFD) is responsible for mobilizlng support for rural
forestry conservation and development by providing iuformatioL through the
media, technical advice and training and by establishing demonstration
nurseries. The aim is to assist community groups in establishing and
managing plantations so as to meet local demands for fuelvood. CFD though
understaffed, needs to be more fully integrated into the new zonal
administrative structure.   Successful operation will depend on the
availability of adequate staff, equipment and transportation and
considerable strengthening of monitoring and evaluation.
29.       The Silvicultural Research Center undertakes research on nursery
techniques, silviculture of indigenous trees, species trials at higher
altitudes, natural regeneration of forests, agroforestry etc., with the aim
of providing technical and scientific information for use by the forestry
services. The Center also conducts research on seed production and storage
and supplies seeds for reforestation programs.
30.       The Forestry Training Institute is situated at Wondo Genet and is
the only specialized forestry training institution in Ethiopia. The
Institute offers a two year diploma course, and has a yearly output of
about 70 students which satisfies the country's need for Forest Rangers.
There is no degree level training in forestry in Ethiopia.
31.       Other NRHD operations include the Land Use Planning and
Regulatory Division, the Wood Utilization Research Center and the Wildlife
Conservation Organization. The semi-autonomous agencies are the National
Gum production and Marketing Enterprise, the Sawmills and Joineries
Enterprise and the Wood and Charcoal Production and Marketing Enterprise
(WCME). The latter enterprise is the only institution legally permitted to
procure fuelwood from plantations and market it in Addis Ababa through a
network of depots.
Institutional Relationships
32.       At the grassroots level, the main institutions dealing with
forestry management are the Peasant Associations (PAs), the Urban Dwellers'
Associations (UDAs) and SFD. With the land reform decree of 1975, all
rural land became the property of the Ethiopian people. Farmers were



- 10 -
organized into PAs, each with 200-400 farming families having usufruct
rights for up to 10 ha per farm family. With respect to forestry, the main
PA responsibilities are to: (i) administer and conserve soil, water and
forests; (ii) exclude forests from land distribution; and (iii) follow the
land use directives of the Government. UDAs were established under the
Proclamation for the Public Ownership of Urban Lands (1976), with duties
and responsibilities corresponding to those of PAs.
33.       The proclamation by which PAs and UDAs were established did not
give the necessary authority to SFD to enable efficient centralized
conservation practices and forest management to be introduced. A
Government order, instructing SFD to La&e over all forest areas larger than
80 ha was not recognized by regional, district, and sub-district
administrations or by PAs, as it was noc issued as a legal regulation.
With responsibilities somewhat obscure, LAs and UDAs assumed control of
forest and plantation areas, but since PAs and UDAs were neither
technically competent nor conscientious enough to manage the resources, the
forests became a free good to be used by the general population.
34.       This situation was addressed by the Forestry Decree (Proclamation
No. 192) of 1980, under which NRMD is responsible for ensuring proper
protection, development and rational utilization and management of forest
and wildlife resources of the country. Each PA and UDA is required to
develop and conserve its own forests and to plant trees within its locality
in areas designated bv SFD as forest reserve. Each PA and UDA is also
required to implement directives concerning conservation, protection,
development and utilization of forests. However, since SFD can only take
control of forest land by declaring it to be forest reserve, effective
control remains with PAs and UDAs and destruction of the forest and
plantation reserves has continued. Forest protection and involvement of
the local population in this process is of extreme importance. The project
will finance a number of pilot efforts to generate such support.
Government Policy for Forestry Development
35.       The main forestry policy documents are the Decree of 1980, and
the Ten-Year Perspective Plan. The major policy objectives are:
(i) rational use and management of natural resources; and
(ii) mobilization and coordination of the efforts of the population in
the development, protection and management of the country's
forests and wildlife resources.
The forestry section of the Plan aims at the establishment of a plantation
area of 2.9 million ha, demarcation of 39,000 sq. kms of forest, and
inventory surveys on 475,000 ha. Investments in forestry and natural
resources (about US$690 million) over the Plan period, would represent
about 52 of total investment outlays. In addition, about US$3.4 million
would be allocated for recurrent costs. These targets are unrealistically
high. They would require an annual planting program of 290,000 ha, whereas
the total achieved in 1984 with bilateral aid support was 18,000 ha by SFD



- 11 -
and the equivalent of 28,000 ha through community forestry methods.
However, the Plan targets are used as guidelines and the NRMD annual
targets are set to conform with the capacities of the forestry agencies.
36.       A strategy for forestry development was outlined in the Energy
Assessment Reportl/. The main features are the establishment of fuelvood
plantations near urban centers, and the improvement of agroforestry
practices on a massive scale in the rural areas. A potentially achievable
target by 1992 was considered to be 195,000 ha. This would require an
annual plantation program 60 percent greater than that achieved in 1984.
The present project, while providing only about 11 percent of the targeted
total area of new plantations does respond to the recommended strategy.
The magnitude of the problem is enormous and the Government recognizes the
need to revise the forestry development plans in accordance with achievable
targets. Rapid responses to forestry problems are impossible; therefore,
it is essential to begin tree planting as soon as possible.
Forestry Development Projects
37.       External assistance for forestry has mainly been directed toward
protective reforestation, research, training and technical assistance, with
some larger scale afforestation projects supported by the African
Development Bank and bilateral donors. Experience has shown that with some
technical assistance, SFD staff can successfully manage the plantation
programs. As part of these programs, forest villages have been established
and plantation protection has been organized and forest guards employed.
Similar arrangements have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
project. To date, no damage to these new plantations has been reported
either from illegal cutting or as a result of grazing by livestock.
38.       The externally assisted forestry projects financed by Germany,
Sweden and UNDP/FAO have been directed mainly towards protective
reforestation, research, training and technical assistance. The World Food
Programs support protective forestry in about 19 selected catcbments and
the soil and water conservation programs of the Ministry of Agriculture;
the major thrust of these projects is towards agricultural rather than
forestry production. Larger scale afforestation projects are receiving
support from the African Development Bank (ADB), and the Finnish, Norwegian
and Netherlands Governments in conjunction with the United Nations Sahelian
Office. Sweden also provides assistance to the Forestry Training Institute
and is in the process of setting-up a National Center for Community
Forestry to provide training to a wide range of forestry staff, extension
agents and peasant farmers.
39.       Government-sponsored schemes to reforest exploited, high altitude
forests have been started in recent years. PAs have also been encouraged
to enter into replanting activities and have planted about 22,000,000
seedlings each year since 1980 (equivAlent to 13,750 ha) in blocks, rows
and around homesteads. In addition, 50,000 people have been trained in
community forestry techniques and 680 nurseries constructed in PAs.
Unfortunately, no monitoring of these efforts was undertaken and no
plantaticn records were kept, therefore the success of the planting efforts
1/   'Ethiopia: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector."  Report of the
Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Assessment Program, June, 1984.
(Report No. 4741-ET).



- 12 -
cannot be estimated. It is known however, that the seedlings provided were
not always of species adapted to the planting sites and seed shortages
prevented the production of specific seedlings (eg. fruit trees) requested
by farmers. The programs paid limited attention to agro-forestry, the use
of multipurpose trees and the development of effective forestry extension
services.
IDA Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
40.      The Association has considerable experience in lending for
agricultural development in Ethiopia. Two Minimum Package Projects
(Cr.416-ET and Cr.1088-ET) focused on agricultural production in the
highlands. Coffee Projects (Cr.290-ET and Cr. 1429-ET) supported
processing, cultural practices and disease control, and the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation's storage and marketing activities were strengthened
under Credit 789-ET. Other projects were for Drought Rehabilitation and
Land Settlement (Cr.485-ET), Irrigation (Cr.707-ET), Agricultural Research
(Cr.1521-ET) and Drought Recovery (Cr.1576-ET). An IFAD project is
strengthening the operational capacity of the Agricultural and Industrial
Bank and channelling funds for on-farm development through cooperatives.
41.      Implementation of agricultural projects compares favorably with
similar projects elsewhere in Eastern Africa. Some projects were adversely
affected by the security situation. The severe strain imposed on the
government administration by the drought relief effort, however, has
created some difficulties due to the diversion of some management focus and
manpower away from project Implementation tasks. In particular, the burden
placed on the Ministry of Agriculture due to its management focus and
mnpower away from project implementation tasks. In particular, the burden
placed on the Ministry of Agriculture due to its reorganization, the
drought situation, and resettlement, has tended to weaken its capacity to
implement production strategies as effectively as it otherwise could do.
In recent years, the agricultural lending program has been adversely
affected by differences between Government and the Association on
agricultural policy issues. Goverment policies have constrained
agricultural growth by placing restrictions on marketing and producer
prices, and mitigating against adoption of farm technologies (mainly
fertilizers and improved seeds) because of lack of incentives. The
Association has been pressing for marketing and pricing improvements,
secure land tenure and increased efficiency with respect to agricultural
support services so as to provide incentives which are essential to achieve
increased agricultural production. The dialogue on these issues has been
constructive.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Ethiopia
with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. It was appraised
in November 1985, and negotiations were held in Washington from April
15-25, 1986. The Ethiopian delegation was headed by Mr. Bekele Tamirat,
Vice Minister of Finance.  The staff appraisal report entitled "Ethiopia -
Forestry Project," dated May 29, 1986, (No. 6096-ET) is being distributed
separately.



- 13 -
Prolect Oblectives
43.       The principal objectives of the project are to increase supplies
of fuelvood and building poles to the urban markets, and to reverse the
process of forest and plantation degradation near Addis Ababa and Bahir
Dar.
44.       The following activities are designed to achieve these
objectives:
(i)   Establishing new state forestry plantations and upgrading
existing ones;
(ii)   Increasing community forestry planting using innovative
development models;
(iii)   Expanding forestry research;
(iv)   Providing technical assistance;
(v)   Introducing monitoring and evaluation; and
(vi)   Providing institutional support for project implementation.
Rationale for Support from IDA
45.        This project would Involve significant policy initiatives in
community forestry and in fuelwood marketing and pricing, which are the
result of the development dialogue underway between IDA and the
Governmernt. The desirability of the policy reforms incorporated in the
proposed project became evident from the analysis contained in the
BankIUNDP Energy Assessment Report. Consistent with the Bank's assistance
strategy for Ethiopia (para. 22), the proposed project would involve a
policy shift in favor of freer marketing and prices that include an
incentive which will encourage tree planting; provide an indirect
contribution to agricultural productivity by diminishing the use of natural
fertilizers for fuel and by reducing soil erosion; and, help to increase
Ethiopia's resistance to drought by gradually restoring its ecological
balance. IDA has had wide experience in the establishment of community and
state-run forestry plantations which should enable it to contribute useful
expertise to other donors supporting the Government's comprehensive
afforestation program.
Project Area
46.       Project activities would be concentrated in the priority areas
around the cities of Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar. The total population of
the project area is almost 3.0 million, of which 1.6 million live in the
two cities. The area of existing plantations of eucalyptus to be upgraded
under the project are located mainly to the east, west and north of Addis
Ababa. The plantations have deteriorated over the past ten years, mostly
as a result of excessive and uncontrolled cutting. The area for new



- 14 -
plantations to the north-east of Addis Ababa consists of a series of hills
and ridges which presently are used for grazing. The new plantation site
to the west of Bahir Dar is a plateau already designated as forest land.
Precise Information on the sites will be available following the completion
of aerial and soclo-economic surveys. IDA has approved a project
preparation facility (PPF) advance which would finance these surveys.
The surveys would be completed and results analyzed and submitted to IDA
for revi.w before June 30, 1987. This would be well in advance of the
first planting program in March 1988. Sufficient data is available to
permit project activities to begin Immediately in parts of the project
area. A relocation plan would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1987, to
ensure that families affected by plantation activities would be residing in
the vicinity of the plantations and experiencing similar If not enhanced
economic opportunities and llving standards. This would site villages on
the potentially more productive areas within the vicinity of the forest
plantations. In establishing these villages, the Government wlll follow
procedures similar to those already employed for the implementation of the
on-going Addls Ababa Fuelwood Plantation project financed by the African
Development Fund.
Project Description
47.       State Forestry Plantation Program.  As part of the Government's
program for expanding its state forests, the project would provide the
support and infrastructure necessary to develop 11,000 ha of new
plantations and rehabilitate 13,000 ha of existing plantations. As part of
this process, the project includes provision for schools, clinics, water
supply and houses for about 4,200 families residing in the project area.
48.       Community Forestry Program.  The Government's new community
forestry program, designed to foster a participatory approach to forestry
development, involves the active cooperation of about 190 Peasant and Urban
Dwellers Associations. The two main elements of the program to be
supported under the project are: (a) supervised forestry activities,
including the establishment of about 1,600 ha of new plantations and the
rehabilitation of about 1,000 ha of existing plantations, on behalf of
local groups; and (b) self-help forestry activities, in which individual
communities themselves would establish about 8,500 ha of new plantations
and rehabilitate about 2,700 ha of existing plantations.   Also,
individuals would be encouraged to plant trees around their houses and
community buildings
(250 ha).
49.        Forestry Research.   Research would be conducted on nursery
techniques, soils, fertilization, introduced species, plantation design and
agro-forestry. This project-related research would be conducted in the
field in project nurseries and plantations. Some trials would be designed
and executed in collaboration with internationally recognized foreign
institutions.
50.        Training.  The p~roject would include overseas training
fellowships for the graduate foresters needed under the project and would
provide vehicles, equipment and stipends for guest lecturers to support
specialized in- country trtining courses and seminars.



- 15 -
51.       Technical Assistance.  Because of the shortage of forestry
graduates experienced in proJect-supported forestry activities, the project
would require technical assistance, not only for the execution of the field
planting programs but also for financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and research. A senior forestry expert would be employed by
December 31, 1986, under terms of reference and with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA.
Project Isplementation
52.        To ensure smooth coordination among the agencies participating
in the project, a Project Coordinating Committee would be established under
the chairmanship of the Vice Minister for NRMD. A Project Management Unit
would be established within NRMD's State Forests Conservation and
Development Department (SFD) by October 1, 1986. It would be a condition
of effectiveness that a Project Manager had been appointed as head of the
Management Unit reporting directly to the Read of SFD. He would supervise
directly the establishment of plantations and upgrading of existing
plantations under the State Forestry Program. The new plantations at the
project sites would be managed separately by site managers. The upgrading
program for large (more than 80 ha) blocks of plantations would be executed
in cooperation with the PAs and UDAs Associations adjacent to the
plantation areas. It is expected that many individuals now scavenging wood
would be employed under the project in plantation development activities.
A phased development plan for upgrading existing plantations is being
prepared by SFD in collaboration with the Addis Ababa City Council and the
Energy Department of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. The Community
Forestry Program would be supervised directly by a Senior Community
Forester reporting to the Project Manager. Detailed planting programs
would be worked out with each participating community and agreements
reached with the PMU on site locations, species to be planted and
management plans.
53.      Annual work programs prepared by the Project Manager and the
Senior Community Forester would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment. The first draft annual work program would be prepared and
submitted by November 30, 1986, and thereafter, by February 15, each year.
The final work programs would take into account comnents received from IDA
and final programs would be submitted to IDA prior to implementation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       An internationally-recruited expert on monitoring and evaluation
would advise MOA's Monitoring and Evaluation Division on the procedures to
be followed and the variables ro be measured. Monitoring would be
continuous and would include measurer2nts of work progress (including
details of labor employed and actual areas planted), effects of the project
on the local populations, responses of target populations and fluctuations
in fuelwood prices. The Monitoring and Evaluation Division would furnish
IDA with semi-annual progress reports In a form satisfactory to IDA. The
Division would also be responsible for preparing the project completion
report six months after the completion date and would arrange a joint



- 16 -
government/IDA mid-term review of the project at the beginning of the
fourth project year under terms-of-reference acceptable to IDA.
Cost Estimates and Financing
55.       The total cost of the project, Including physical and price
contingencies, taxes and duties Is estimated at US$62.1 million equivalent,
of which the foreign exchange cost would be about US$17.8 million
equivalent (32Z of total project cost). Base costs are at December, 1985
prices. Physical contingencies of about 10 percent have been provided for
civil works and of about five percent for other Items, except vehicles and
equipment. Price contingencies, on the base cost plus physical
contingencies have been provided for local costs on the basis of projected
annual increases of 9 percent for FY 87 and 88, and 10 percent annually
thereafter and for foreign costs at the following rates from FY1986 through
FY1991; 7 percent, 7.5 percent, 7.7 percent, 7.6 percent and 4.5 percent.
Initial project costs for aerial surveys, photo-interpretation and
collection of essential socio-economic data are being financed under a
Project Preparation Facility advance of US$323,000.
56.       The proposed credit of US$45 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs of the project and about US$27.2 million of local
costs, or about 82 percent of total costs net of taxes and duties. The
Government would provide about US$17.1 million equivalent, including taxes
and duties.   Farmers would  provide an additional estimated US2.7 million
equivalent mainly as labor for self-help plantation activities.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Vehicles, equipment, tools, nursery supplies, machinery and
fertilizers to be financed by the proposed IDA Credit would be procured
under international competitive bidding procedures following the annk Group
guidelines; eligible domestic bidders would be granted a margin of
preference of 15 percent of the cif bid price of imported goods or actual
customs and duties, whichever is lower. For coutracts valued at less than
US$100,000, local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA would be
followed. Small items of office equipment would be procured following
limited international bidding. Prudent shopping, with a minimum of three
price quotations could be followed for small, urgently needed, off the
shelf items costing less than US$20,000 each, and for horses and mules
needed for transport. It is expected that the aggregate amount of contracts
procured under this procedure would not exceed US$200,000. Due to the
small scale and geographic disperssment of project construction activities,
the civil works contracts would not be attractive to interaational
bidders. Therefore, the construction of buildings, houses, roads and
community facilities would be done either through local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to IDA or by force account. Consultancy services
would be retained in accordance with IDA guidelines on terms acc-ptable to
IDA.
58.       Disbursements *zader the Credit would be made against 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for civil works and 75 percent of local



- 17 -
expenditures or 70 percent of local expenditures If done by force account;
100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment, machinery and
materials or 100 percent of the ex-factory price if manufactured locally,
and 60 percent of local expenditures; 90 percent of local expenditures for
pack animals; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultancy services
and training; and, 70 percent of incremental operating costs up to an
aggregate amount of SDR 7 million equlvalent and 50 percent thereafter.
The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a period of about seven
years. Disbursement would be based on full documentation with the
exception of incremental operating costs, local training course expenses,
maintenance expenses, contracts for goods and services valued below
US$20,000, labor for plantation establishment and construction carried out
by force account for which statements of expenditure would be required.
A schedule of disbursements which agrees with the profile of forestry
projects in East Africa appears in the Credit and Project Summary. The
closing date for the proposed Credit would be June 30, 1993, six months
after project completion.   For the purposes of the project, a Special
Account would be opened in the National Bank of Ethiopia, with an initial
deposit of US$1.5 million.
Accounts and Audit
59. The Project Management Unit would establish and maintain project
accounts. These would be audited annually by the Ethiopian Audit Services
Corporation, or other auditors acceptable to the Association.   Audited
accounts including audits of statements of expenditure and the Special
Account would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each
financial year.
Marketing, Pricing and Cost Recovery
60.        Under the proposed project, the Government would introduce by
June 30, 1987, a revised system for both pricing and marketing of forestry
products. The pricing system would be designed to increase the present
stumpage rate fixed by the Government to a level that would, at a minimum,
cover producer costs for state-owned plantations and, in the case of
community growers, include a margin sufficient to stimulate reinvestment in
forest planting.   At present, only public enterprises, essentially the
Government marketing agency (WCME), are legally authorized to market
fuelwood. However, due to limited transport, financial and staff capacity,
WCME currently handles only about 20 percent of the total quantity of wood
marketed in Addis Ababa. Under the revised system, the remaining 80
percent of the supply which now reaches the market illegally, would be
freely distributed and legally sold at either open market prices for
community-grown wood, or for wood produced by state-owned plantations, at a
price representing at least full cost recovery. The Government would
submit a report to the Association annually on the marketing activities of
its marketing institutions, and would not increase the share of its public
sector marketing activities unless the Association is satisfied that these
institutions have a demonstrated capacity to do so. MOA's Monitoring and
Evaluation Division will analyze annually the costs of production in the
forestry sector and the Association will review this analysis together with



- 18 -
the adequacy of proposed producer Incentives in the course of agreeing with
Government on the Annual Project Work Program.
Environmental Impact
61.       The proposed project would be expected to have a significant
beneficial Impact on the environment within the project area. Forests and
tree cover play a significant role in the ecology of Ethiopia and have been
depleated drastically since the beginning of the century as the demand for
forest products has increased. The project would contribute to soil
erosion control and, by providing alternative supplies of fuelwood, would
reduce the demands on and the rate of degradation of the natural forests
whiclh are valuable gene pools and wildlife refuges.
Economic Justification
62.       The principal benefit of the project would be incremental
production of fuelwood and poles estimated to amount to 871,000 cubic
meters in project year 12 and averaging 577.000 cubic meters in
subsequent years. The Peasant Associations participating in the project
would realize increased farm incomes from the sale of wood. Indirect
benefits would accrue as a result of increased rural employment, and
improved community facilities for families living in the project vicinity.
In the long term, the environment in Ethiopia would benefit from a slowing
of the deforestation process and agricultural production should benefit as
dung and agricultural residues are not diverted from use as natural
fertilizers.
63.       The estimated 16 percent economic rate of return includes all
project components, but excludes potential benefits which could result from
increased agricultural production. This rate of return is relatively
Insensitive to changes in costs and benefits. Should benefits decrease by
20 percent or costs increase by 20 percent, the rate of return would fall
to 13.6 percent and 11.6 percent respectively.
Risks
64.       Public interest in forests and fuelwood supplies is high, and the
Government is dedicated to achieving its afforestation objectives.
Overall, implementation risks are low. There are few technical risks
associated with the project as the forestry technology is available and
simple to apply. The project encourages community involvement in forestry
activities. Yet, there is some risk that the rate at which communities
commence participation in project activities may be slower than
anticipated. This risk has been addressed by provision for an active
forestry extension effort, retraining of forestry staff in comminity
forestry activities and freer marketing of production at incentive prices.
There Is also a risk that tne protection of state forest plantations would
be difficult to ensure given that prices of fuelvood are expected to rise
and the fact that trees have been regarded as a free good for many years.
The project would reduce this risk by providing forest guards where
essential, and by motivating community members to protect their forests and
plantations.



- 19 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I an satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and reco mmend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
May 29, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                       AunexI
awm                        11. Page  1 of 6
UUIWI.IU*L  574.9  91.5  1.       W                                i
mm  c(     m a)                        *          . uu  o l. we
-OM        nin                      * mA mn..                                       
(u.OUIM  OI OIL QfUIVAIu)          6.0        2. O       MOA 203                                   Na.!
PWAX      M   VTL  _W lU
pWIATI.NI,-1  (1uS)  22536.0    27.0a  4"MA6*
goo0 PMHI.TIOU (B Or TOTAL)        0.4         0.7        4.0              3.1                      22.0
NLATIUM PROJECTIONM
9633ATION IN WUR US0 MUILL)                            65.7
hh*TZUS*31 16931*1An    (NILL                         1161.0
39U3AKM 3                                               1.9 
n  go. IN.                       10.4       25.7       33.5               3.2                     43.J
m  3Q. Mi. Ml. un               29.2        4*.9       67.1             112A                     32
0-14 3s                        43.9        44.7       450.              44.0                     45.6
15 -443                          33A        32.                           0 51."
GS AM AIM                        2.5        I2A         2a.               2.9                      2.7
NWUIA!IO  cowril mu (3)
TOTAL.                           2.2         2.5        2.7               2.1                      2.9
OEM2                             5.5         6.7        6.2               6.4                      5.1
-1m  Km3am  (M T11)               43*7        43.2       40.5              47.2                    47.0
elm33*13 MU (M3 111003)           3.2         17.1       3.3               17.1                     1.0
-       VIFOU        mm            2.0         2.0        5.2               5.3J                     2.2
£cmP0. AM         3)              ..         ..         .. 
oSwn    or0 1*13INNEu)            ..         ..           0               3.3                     4.4
1o   01 FM 130. M CIu
(169-71-100)                    I1.A         1o0a        Va               8.3                       2.
mm CAP=N 33371T W
Caj.osuh(I W  NQUINIM)           4.0        n.o        na.0              0.7                     UJ3
Pon31s (M U M         g7. 0A                62.0       60.0              51.9                    55.4
69 1XC     *  13 131.11        26.0        24.6       22A j       -       .                     144J
cam (AM1 1-4) 311420 3*2         3.5         35.6       UAS              22.1                     16.0
1.17 1131P. At KM (21*13)         423        41.1        4A               47A                      32.0
LW AW . 3*13A 35 CM       )      17.0        33.3       242a              3194                    105.
*0330 20 3*33 3*35 (23)
tU.                               ..         .0        1                 27.3                    42.A
UM1                              ..          ..         5.9              19.                     55.3
-  U mIA 33Mm1.~~~~OI                        1-3
ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                        0. t.
&=01  20WUJI0CMK)   O
SOAL                             ..         14a         ..                 s                     25.9
133*3                            ..        67.0        .-               45A4                     57.7
L                                ..         5.0                          " A                     20.7
Pa. PM  su 3 3                 161730       6o96       5OA.             330A.                    249A
op.  a   onL Ml
S0D                           2360.0      2510.0     2 .1              12735                    91.1
UAW                            250A       40"A        MA               43.2                     3611.5
OAL                              ..      0110.0    101301.0           23.5                     421.
ADNXSUU3B     PZROU  1AL M3        ..         10.0       ..                .27.2
107*.                            .           4.5
335*3                            5.5        4.2        .. 
33*1.                    ..          *         ..                ..
134  3o0. or   _/
33*                              2..        ..          ..               ..                       .
2vIIUL                           ....                   *....
33*R.L..                                     ..         ..               *.
9336014369                            ..13       ..1               *-                      *.
.. .. . .- .



- 21 -
T A IL  IA3                                         Annex I
IOFIA                   - PCAL lto U         ATPage  2  of  6
tflhoflA                              mIrW      aE OmUF  (EwSSUD AVERAGES) 
NMS                       (NMS REC:ENT SDA)J
i,uonk   i~iLk                      LOW ICN ARCA              Ng    #wnE
maLb  197Lb-  IrMACLb  IOUT OF gLqm          AflCA S. OF SAMARA
alum mm(wur DUTo 
AuuM Er -LUr RATIO
PRIHTi   TOTAL                      7.0        14.0        4E.0                37.                       95.7
HALE                    11.0        23.0        40.0                77.6                     100.0
FrLE                     3.0        10.0        33.0                54.9                      U3.2
SCONDART  TOTAL                     0.4         4.0         12.0               13.5                      17.3
HAL                      1.0         4.0        16.0                17.9                      25.0
nma                      0.1         2.0         o.0                9.1                       14.3
VOCATIONAL (C 0F SW  )SART)          20.3         4.5         44.0               13.2                       5.9
FPUPILL-T&AUR RATIO
PRIMARY                            37.0        43.0        63.0                44.9                      41.1
SBCONDARY                          13.0        23.0        ".0                 27.1                      25.5
PASSUNER CARS/TMOUSAMD rp             0.7         1.4          1. ff             3.0                  .   20.0
RAIto ICEI U /To S  VW                4.3         5.5         4.4                55J.                     107.I
TV mCEIrALKSTNOU*AD POP                ..         0.3          1.0                2.4                      20.8
1 1PA         VW      CONWAL
111T15) CIRCULATION
M TNOxSAJ   POPIJLAIO        .       1.9         1.0          1.0                5.0                      13.4
CIA  IANL ATIDEl/CATA                  ..         ..           ..                 0.5                       0.4
TonL Lma  Fot (T5)                10064.0      12459.0     14914.0
milL! tCPm)                        35.7        35.2         32.9               34.2                      36.2
AGUCWLTU   (CERGER)                U.0         84.0         80.0 id            77.5                      54.5
OSTILT (PERCET)                     5.0         4.0         7.0                 9.7                      15.3
PARTICIPATIOU RAT  (PDA=IT
TOTAL                              44.7        43.1         24.5               39.3                      34.8
3A                                53.4         34.9         50.5               50.9                      47.1
FUIALE                             31.3        29.7        25.3                23.1                      27.2
RCOZOC    0D     RATo                 1.0         1.1          13                 1.3                       1.3
- -
PRC    OP  IVATE DUM
RECEIVD 3!
310133  5S301  _OUID                ..          .-           .....
8115  201 OF   0                    ..          ..           ..                 ..
LKS   2010 W   _OLU                 ..          ..           .....
UST 4OX  OF  mOs                    ..          ..           ...
-samAvou   ra m                mwo
LVL CUS  pn  CAFIZA)
A                                   ..          ..        190.0               15.5                      590.7
AL                                  ..          ..           5.0 L            *5.0                      275.3
isSS m.m   ow   r
LEVEL (gU  PE  CANT
UA                                  ..          ..         77.0if             113.1                     545.
fLOAL                               ..          ..         37.0               47.6                      201.1
-D           VW. 3OM A110LVn
10135? ICWNK LEVRl. CZ)
U                                   ..          ..         60.0of             346A
USUAL                               ..          ..           ..[              461.5
NOT AP1LZC1
NOS   ~~~~~~~N0   
if Tb. grop averqa. fwr each ladleater awe pepalecl§B-volgbtod azlCUtbtC inam   CvarM  Steatu
among the ladicatet, dapemaf om avYalbSLUty of damtand la set aLfers.
1 USIA"  tbwlea mated. -fDta for 196    r   to a           er S_b_a    1959 as  196; _'.s fOC         batea
1949 em  1971; _nS da  for want   at   _teste" k           1961 _m  1963.
/c   1977; a  L960; La 197;  /f 1974; If Ads Abdo aly.
-. 1I5



- 22 -                                   Annex I
Page 3 of 6
DOMITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nut Altough khe da ae drawn from nmmai  gmeyJ       the - audintatmm ndtab. it shoud ao he Dod that thes y atno e uuemaually
comptaral boom of the lack of standarda d&dona and cormp   sd by dIllr cine im cmlleting th dat. The dt amr ohe. usul ot
dcibe aonm rm atude. indicae trends and taactenre mcrta uor dilMa bans. countri.
The reeqnc roue drc (it the mm cOmtfl group of the sbect country and (2D a couny roup with somewhat hbr averg ime than the countrv
Irop ofdie subect cotry gecept ror High IncomeOd Exponm  goup whag Middle [am  North Afhrri and Middlc Eis choe. becue of straer
soo-cultural altiti. In the refence group da th averar are popuaa weaighti. antluec mat rfr eas idatr and shown onbl when niaont!
othe coutries in tmrnip bu dat for that Widloatot Sies the overag ofrcoin amog thea Indimss dends on th avaiblhyIt ofdat and ms not niform
caution must be  r medieing averages atone indiator toanote Thee avragear only ueul In sapafig the value fone idcator alta tm amomag
the country and  I    pu.
AREA (thousand sq.km.J                                           Cud MrS atae (portheusaadi-Numberof live births in theyear
Total-Total surface area comprising land area nd inlnd watemrs  per thousand of mid-yea population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 19S3 data. Cue Deat RA  (per rdeusdj-Number of deaths in the yr
Agrfeubml-Estimate of agriutural a    ued temporarily or        per tbousnd of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanendy for crops. pastures market and kthcken prdens or to     em Repeddau  re-Average nunber of daughtes a woman
lie falow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data                             will bear in hr normal reproductive period if sbe experiences
presnt age-speak fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPfTA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. aDd 1983.
market prices caulated by same conversion method as World tPfaum-Aeeprrs Anal ftheuadsj-Annual num-
Bask Alirs 119S1-83 basis) 1983 data.                           berofaccptorsofbirth-controldevicesunderauspicesonational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  fmay pani  progrua.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       any                  pers ere   f sdried 'remx -The percen-
petroleum, natural ps and hvdro- nuclear and gothermal lec-     tae of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilopamts of oil cquivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contracepion. Worn
1982 'a'.                                                       orchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total P1p9l8matie..Mid-Vr Irhoasaads)-As ofJuly 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRlUlON
and 1933 data.
Utrk   Popukri_n fpfemn  of twat)--Ratio of urban to sotal        h*x ofFeed Pdrtion Per C$ha (1969-71 - W0I-1ndex orp r
populain dpuhr5mt (efritens of urbankRatismyO fct opr           capita annual production of aN food commodities. Piroduction
population: different definitions olurban areas say affectconipar-  excue adnima fedadse  o  giutr.Foomdte
ability of data among countries, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     incude primar commodities fe.r  sugr n ntu ste Food cofiuoditres
pbpati*S Pftreriof                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Rhpumaton -  war 2000-The projection of population for 2000     excluded;: they compnse cereals root crops. pulses. oil heeds.
made for each economt  scparately. Starting with information on  vgetbles. fruits, nuts. suprcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
otal population by age and sfe fertilit rates, mortalit rates and  ivestock products Aggregate proiduction of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national avenge producer price weights. 196145. 1970. and
wrc projected at five-year intervals on the basis of genalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the populauon becane stationary.               *  qCapit Supp  ofCalris (percet efreq_'a   em-Cotnput-
Srarionary popudanon-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in couniry
talitn mtes have not changed over a long period. while age-specfic  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility raes have simultaneously remained at replacenent level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net suppliec
tnet reproduction tate- 1. In such a population. the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate the age structure is also  food processing- and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The staionary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal actitin
stum vas estmated on the basis of the projeed chatacteristics of  and health considerintt environmental temperature. bods weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of iertility  age and sex dtstribution of population. md allowing Itt percent for
rate to replcement level.                                        naste at household klel: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
PopuarisosM mmwnnn-ls the tendency for population growvth to    Per Cate  Supyf nOrweia (grasm per eey)-Proten content ol
continue beyond the tme that replacement-levle fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. 'Net supply of food is defined
achieed. that is even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes estabashed by USDA
unity. 7he momentum of a population in the vear r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total proton per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 gams of animal and pulse protein. of whwch 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertiht remains at repace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment levl from year r onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Pb,sdu DPesirr                                                  average for the workl proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqAm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer I100 he-     Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                PerCpCta AwreiSuspp&iym.rn Aaimand Parem-Protae n upply
Per sq.kr. nagiculural land-Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per da-. 1I*: -65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           19' MSand 1977 data.
_puleios Age Sscnmrr (percenur-Children (0- 14 years;. work-    CAN (ages l-4j Death Rote (per rh.sandj- N umber of dea:b- f
ing aget 15-4 years. and retired (65 years and over; as perentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the ume age
of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year For nmost developing countnes data derned
RPipulatiem Growth Rate (percerr)--orol-:AnnuaI gtrowth rates of  from life tabks: IQ60. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 19500. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Pbpelatiea Growth Rate (perce.tj-w-mF-Annual growth rates       Life Erpectrnac s Byrr (yeerrj-Number of years a neunorn
of urban population for 1950-60. 190-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalit for all people



- 23 -                                      Annex I
Page 4 of 6
sude tm of or Its bit war to my the m-  throughut Its lire;    hpdIm )r Jatio - prnwy. ad scmdur-Totm students e
1960. 1970 nd IM) dat,                                        roll in pmany and seondary lvls divided by numbe  of
_tw Nannkw B e  (per Ihesemd-Number orinfau who die            tuecs In the corruponding leveb.
beforr rhg one year slap p  thouand Ive birts In  g Sin
yeai  1960 1,70ind19iU3 dt                                     CONUMPflON
eAnsre Si *bi     (puss V p    his-ok tel. hen, S             Punge  Corser smmed                             caur n car n
ura-Nub er  orpeople (otl, urban sad nta) with reUaOnle         i  motor cas ating lee tan eight penon; exluda ambul-
access to .fa watr upply   cude tmted surface water or         a.es ibn and miliutry vehicls,
unauted ba uncammineam  water such a tat from protected
boeholm springs and suAniar well) u psrcetage of their respec-  for radio roacss togneaPubi er thousnp ldo)Altpsan  or poplaion;s
tie populations. In an urn ar  a public founti or stanripost   excludeun-bicense  receiversuInc per thou ssad in popu yarn   wn
la ted not more than MD muet  Rom a ouns may be cbtdeonderd                                   otr     ns wu
beag withi raoble  ce  or that hose In rural area             mistmtion or rdio so wa in elect; data foor reopt yeas may
reasonabeaccess would Imply thiat the houewife or members rithe  not be cimparble since mast coutrie abolishd lIensing.
houseia  do anot have to spend a dispoprionate part of the day  TVReulmr (Po dtwd p npmui'y-ToV rec        s forbroadcast
In fert   the famiys water bnds                                to geer Publc pr thousand populadop; excludes unlicend TV
ti    so Eh n Equ    r l                        n r            reeivr of  avincu na od duin year wn registration oTV isns was
ad awe--Number of People (totL urba, and rural) sefer by      In elect.
exet disposal as percentage of thei repectve pouain.           AwIP' Chuilad (Par tmpelaalSosthe aver-
Exacea dispos  my Include ite collection ad dth or            AP crulation of 'daFly genr  interet newspaper." defid as a
without tresamt, of hund m excti as waste-water by w -        periodia pub tndevotedprimariyto recoiggeneralnews.
borne syms or the - of pit privie and similar installs        It is considr etd be "dai  It appear at last four tims a week.
pltole parb    a     uN puatio  divided by number of pm-      d CdSi Annmad Atteundaune mpoyd C pt w  Yex-dased on the
tising physica  qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tikets sold during  the year. including admisions to
hpodaiu, r Nosia  hne-lbpulation divde by number of            drlve-in cinemas and mobile units.
praccin  male asd female grduate nurses. assistant nourLse     {r
practica nurses asd nuring auxiliaries.ORFOC
ftp.Isie.pr Hos*a Bnd-w4 when ad   ,                          Taure hTalo  Frc rthowsadsj-Economically active permsns. in-
(totaL urban, as nnral) divided by teir rspective number of   ciuding amed forces and unemployed but excluding housewies.
hospita beds available in public and privateral a             students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Dentions in
hospitals and rehabilitation meter. Hospitals are esablishments  various countries are not comparable. 1940. 1970 and 1983 data.
Permanently staffed by at leas onme physicist. Estabishments pray-  Female (pereeurj-Female labor force -  P mperetage of total labor
Win principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
howeveT. incude health a  medical centers not permanently staffed  Agvakuhwe (percetn-Labor force in farming, formtry. hunting
by a physicia  (but by a miedical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.j    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1930
which offer in-patient accommodatio nrd provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Im'astry tpercent)-Lbor force in mining, construction. manu-
Ahdissiea perw ipm  hi-Total number of admissions to or       facturnag an eletnritc. water and ps s percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Hpdetim Roe (pamrcew-Wal, nck. efenifre -articipation
HOt'S13NG                                                     or activity rtes are computed as totaL male, and femak labor force
Avege  ;:r af HomIN i f(parer per hawesold . w ,               s percentages of total male and female population of all ages
ddrwal-A household consins of a group of individuals who share  r  specively 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quaters and their man meal. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates relcting ag-A structure ofthe popuation. and
may not be induded in the houshold for statistical purposes.  long ime trend. A rew estmtes are from natonal sources.
Avq hNiher of Parseu pa Ream-roea. when, ad rual-              Econadc Dependency Reri-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64.
occupied conventional dweUinS. respecivdy. Dwelings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBLTION
Percenrage of DwveEs with Eecikct -natal. whn. and ruvra-     Pe e of Tae) DOispeske iten (hbth in csh ad kind)-
Conventional dwelling with electricity in living quarers as percen-  Accring to percentile groups of houscholds ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDULCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4utd Edroi&tar Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pmary sco  - tota. mal md female-Gross total male and         levels and should be interpreted with considerble caution.
femakle crollment of al ages at the primary lee as percentages of  E&ismedAhsue Pvwey nome Levd ElSS per caira -arh
respective primary school-age populations. While many counties  ad rr-Absolute poverty income lvdel is that income level
consider pimary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country prcties in the agies and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordlble.
are rdlected in the ratios gvn. For some countries with univerl  Esfeod  ative Pover  Income Level (CST per capita-who
education. gross enrolment may exceed 100 peret since some    ad real-Rural relative po "  income level ts one-third of
pupils are beiow or above the cauntry's stndard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. U:rban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconar school - toal. mak    d femal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at last four years of approved pri-  Esf ed Popuktin kBr"  Ahseure Povry lacew Lnd (per-
mary mstructon; provides general. vocational or tacher training  cetj-wan ad ral- Nrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who are "absolute poor.-
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocauetn  Enrolmni fpercent of secondor)r-Vocational insitu-             Compartive Analvsis and Dan Division
tions include tehncal industiaL or other programs which operate       Economic Analysis and Projections Deptment
independently or as deparments of secondary mstitutions.                              June 1935



- 24 -
Amex I
Page 5 of 6
ETIIOPIA - U01KOOIC INDICATORS
Cll fr Capita - 120.0 (1983)
AMIUAL RATE OF GlOIT OF GDP
GROSS DOMESTIC ROCT IN FT 19851985 A1 AT OONSTANT FACTOR COST (1)
(Gscal Years)
US$ KIn.   S          1981-83    1963    1984    1985
GCP at Market Prices          4835.9   100.0         3.1        5.1   -2.4   -6.8
Investmet                      522.5    10.8
Gross Domestic Savings        -251.5   -3.2
Resource Balance              -774.0  -16.0
Exports of Goods and NFS        557.9    11.5
Imports of Goods and NFS      1331.9    27.5
OUTPUT is 1985 I/
Value Added
US$ Kin.         Z
Agriculture             1921.6           44.3
industry                 o94.5           16.0
Services                1722.7          39.7
Total at Factor Cost    U3.810.
GOVERNMENT FnINCE
central Government
(Br. tan)           X of GDP
nY1985    1982-84
Current Receipts                     -             7 Z!O 5°9
current Expendltures          2364.5             23.6       21.2
Current Surplus                 36.6              0.4       -0.3
Capltal Expenditures          1275.8             12.7        8.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                  1980     1981     1982     1983     1984
(Fiscal Years)                          (Hllion Br. outstanding end period)
Money and quasi-money                   2332.1    2377.6   2643.7   3040.5   33B3.7
lank Credit to Central Government        968.1    1107.9   1180.8   1980i.   2293.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector nd
Financial Instltutlons               1644.2    1721.8   1944.3   1741.7   1861.9
(Percentages)
Money as S of CDP                         27.3      26.7     28.8     30.4     33.7
Annual percentage changes In:
General Price Index                       4.5       6.1     5.6      -0.4      8.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.3      14.4      6.6     67.8     15.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector             34.5       4.7     12.9    -10.4      6.9
Note: All conversions to dollars In this table are at the official exchange rate
of US$1.00 - lirr 2.07
All Fiscal Years are from July 8 to July 7.
1/     Provisional Data for 1985.



-25 -
kcuw I
PWe 6 of 6
waEz OF PAM*=  nSDE&
l983     1984     1985 1/         5      I  E        T'
US$)               (Fiscal Year Ayege 1983-85)
US$Hln.    Z
I  zts Go  ds, IES         55L.8    611.9    557.9           Ooffee            246.4     60.3
liTats of Goods, 1ES       961.7   1115.8   1331.9           Pulses             10.8     2.6
sau rce Cap (deficit - -) -49.9   -508.9   -774.0            OlIsesIs           9.9       2.4
1ides & S.Si      48.4     11.9
Inv_eunt lTme (net)    -13.6    -19.2   -38.4                   I seed cda      5.5       1.4
Private Traiufers (net)     84.9    107.2    169.1           Otber             87.5      21.4
Bals]   on Current Acet.  -338.6   -415.9   -643.3            otal.            408.5    100.0
Offlcial Transfers (net)    92.5    161.9    472.0
Private MT Cacdtal (net)     0.0      0.0      0.0
Pbblic 1CLT bor=uidxa (net)  203.5    204.1    169.1         EIAL MEBT, 1HEMM 31, l9B4
nisbnme-nrx             (253.3)  (268.8)  (293.5)                               US$ Mn.
hAurtization             (49.8)   (64.7)  (124.4)
o5brt1-temn Caital         -9.5      10.9      7.2           Total outstand%ix &
Dlsbzsed            1384.2
C-  in es
(- -Inceae)                71.5     42.3     53.1           MU SIW(   RATD KR FTY 1984
Min  Itm  (mil. errors)  -19.4       -3.3    -58.1                                    Z
Net Pocip Assets (ead year) 107.3    64.8      °
Petrole  Tapots            184.4    155.2                    Total Ogutstair &
Petrolem Prod±t imports      7.3     28.2                       Disbred             16.1
Pte        a     noe 1973
:$1.00 - Br. 2.07
Br.1.00 - DS$0.48
=)D/MA I          (hrch 31, 1986) (Millim  S$)
IT D    Im
Outstwi%g and Dsbursed         39.8   42B.4
nkdisbursed                      -    304.8
Outstamig incl. Ekxlsbursed           733.2
°  not available
1/ Progisionall
1986



26- 
Page 1 of 2
STAM OF BAlK 1P O(ERATIS IN EIHLEOPTA
SL4=1  (F BANK MAND AM   Ma      rts
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount
leam or                                                     (US$ filIon)
Credit                                                     Less Cmncel3adn    U ie-
Nbe        Year   Borroer                                     Bark      Mk    hbrsd
Tbe.ve lowsaEnd ntwnty credits fully disbursed                108.6   288.3
Cr. 603-El  1976   Ethiopia               1kvan  Dew.                   27.0     0.9
Cr. 707-Er  1977   Ethoia1/  Revised Amibar                             25.0     3.1
Cr. 1088-Er  L981   Ethiopi-    Agric. Minmm Pkg. II                    39.22/   0.4
Cr.1141-E   1981   Ethiopia    EdoMtion V                               35.O2/   0.1
Cr.1275-E   1982   Edtopioa    Agric. & Irklst. Dev. Bank               30.0    23.3
Cr.1366-E   1983   Ethiopia    Urban Development                        20.0    16.8
Cr. 1386-Er  1983   Edhopia    Petroleun Exploration                     7.0     3.3
Cr.1404-Er  1983   EthEopia    SecovxPlRd Sector                        70.0     9.4
Cr.1429-El   1984   Ehiopda    Coffee P       Fcessing & M=Wtig         35.0    33.3
Cr-1509-Er  L984   Etbiopia    Shch   ecomlouc_tio#s                    40.0    42.8
C-.152D-W   1984   Eddopia      Sixth  l;dumm                           70.0    75.0
Cr.1521-E   1984   Ethopia    Agric. Researdc                           22.0    23.2
Cr. l-E   1984   EtdopIa    Tedi   Asistance                             4.0     4.3
Cr-.1576-E   1984   Etiopa      Drou&t PRcovery Program                 30.0    18.9
Tota                                      108.6   742.5
of stich bas been rpaid                  68.8      9.3
Total n  outstmadixg                       39.8   733.2
Amount sold                      6.0
of *di has been repaid         6.0
Total nw held by BaEk & ID
(prior to edaae  adjustments)             39.8   733.2
Total Uodisbursed                                           304.8
11 US$1.7 mi11Ion disbursed i    fomner Cr.418-Er, Anibar Irrigatio, bas been
repaid out of the proceeds of the r Credit.
2/ Crdits 1088-Er, 1141-Er, 12755-El, 1366-ET, 138-ET, 1404-E, 1429-Er, L509-ET,
1520-T, 1521-Er, and 1522--r and 1576-Er are enomnated in SDRs (SlR 31.4 udlUion,
28.2 mIllion, 27.0 million, 18.0 miUioa, 6.5 million, 64.9 milinn, 33.2 millon, 38.7
mfllson, 67.3 m[lioa, 21.1 mtlion, 3.9 millicn, ax! 31.3 million respectiely.



-27 -
Am= l
Page 2 of 2
SrM   OF  INC MRVEMMS
(As of aEc 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                         1ype of 
Year                                             uspr  Piness   IT  Euty   Total
1965      Textile Mills of Dre Daw I           Textiles    1.5      1.0      2.5
1966      FLhopia Pulp anl Paper CD.           Paper       -        1.9      1.9
1968      HVAI.htabra, S.C.                    Sur         5.5      3.5      9.0
1970      Textile Mlls of Dire Dm II           Textile     0.4      0.2      0.6
1973      Textile Mills of Dire Dam III        Textiles    1.5      0.2      1.7
Total Gross CaoOi;tents                          8.9      6.8     15.7
-tes  ,   1ati,
repayments and sale                      8.9      6.0     14.9
Total Cdamitnerts xw held by JFC                 -        0.8      0.8
Total Usdisbursed                                          
c  h                              _        -



-28-
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  Four months
(b)  Project Prepared by           : The Government with assistance
provided by the FAO/CP Program
(c)  Identification mission        : May, 1984
Cd)  Appraisal mission             : November, 1985
(e)  Negotiations                     April, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  (120 days after credit signing)
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:
Provision made for a Project Preparation Facility advance of
US$323,000 to finance forest inventory surveys and socio-
economic studies in project areas.
Section III - Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness
Appointment of a Project Manager under terms-of-reference and
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (para.52)
Other Conditions
(a) The surveys financed under the project would be completed and the
results analysed before June 30, 1987. A relocation plan for families
residing in the Project area would be submitted to IDA by
December 31, 1987 (para.46).
(b) A senior forestry expert wouid be employed by December 31, 1986, under
terms of reference, and with qualifications and experience acceptable
to IDA (para.51).



-29-
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(c)   A Project Management Unit would be established within SFD by
October 1, 1986 (para.52).
(d)   Project annual work plans would be prepared and submitted to
IDA. The draft of the first program would be submitted by
November 30, 1986, and for subsequent years by February 15, and
the final work programs would take Into account comments received
from IDA and would be in a form acceptable to IDA (para.53).
(e)   The Monitoring and Evaluation Division would furnish to IDA
semi-annual progress reports on project implementaton (para.54).
(f)   Terms-of-reference and membership of the mid-term review team
would be agreed with IDA before September 30, 1989 the review
carried out at the beginning of the fourth project year and the
report submitted to IDA by March 31, 1990 (para.54).
(g)   Accounting, auditing and reporting would be according to the
procedures outlined (para.59).
(h)   The Government would introduce a revised system for pricing and
marketing fuelwood by June 30, 1987. Reports of the marketing
capacity of public marketing institutions, including the
quantities of forest products handled, would be prepared annually
and submitted to IDA (para.60).
71



S8RO 1959
ETH IOPIA                          (                                      ,           _  _4p   GONDER
FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                               D arahlr Or
Project Areas                       )                                                                Me;il                                 W        E       L      0
_ Proposed Paonting Areas                                                   Dargla      A \t         A  RW      A
_  Restng Plantatlon Area                                                                                  -                                               DtE%S
Paved APhkectser Roads                                                                                        Mata
Grrovet ADl-weather ROaaos
Rivers                  *%       I*M
S  Admkslrate Region Capitols /7G                             °          JI                                                  Merte
Comrmunity Forestr Area   F.IoO5te Beb lrI
Boondodes
AdminlstrOtRe Region
Boundarbes
-     Intermsatlonl Boundoorles                            bJM
I.  p  DESISS O  Delon                           Meod.
J  I   t_  ,=Of                                  s                 , JV                       a~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jihu,   r
0                                                                                                     se   WI\                Goebela~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jse  O
w~~~ E    L DE                       A
MENAG H
I                                                                                              A      x      o f  AWRAJA
N
-  w       I                                                     (                                                        t     I   >                 /I    /      \8  A 
ETHIOPIA                                                                       i'                                                              A      R       S      I
IZ                                                 K   E   F                   F   A






