CREDIT NUMBER 1722 ET
DOCUME~T
Development Credit Agreement
(Forestry Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATI(NAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                           , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1722 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            44 -CP                    , 1986,
between ETHIOPIA (the Borrowe     and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit AgTeements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated March 20, 1985,
September 3, 1985, and November 8, 1985, between the Borrower
and the Association;
(c) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be estab-
lished in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement;
(d) "PPD" means the Planning and Programming Department
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;


﻿- 2 -
(e) "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower, starting on
July 8 of each year and ending on -T'uly 7 of the following year;
(f) "PA" means any Peasan     Association established under
the Borrower's Proclamation No. 71 of 1975, and selected to
participate in the Project;
(g) "UDA" means any Urban Dwellers' Association established
under the Borrower's Proclamation No. 206 of 1981, and selected
to participate in the Project; and
(h) "Project Area" means the territories of Addis Ababa,
Bahir Dar Awraja and Managesha Awraja.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Assoc1ation agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirty-nine six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 39,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.'
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the


﻿-3-
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15, commencing August 15, 1996, and end-
ing February 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 15, 2006, shall be one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower, having declared the objec-
tives of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
reiterates its commitment to such objectives and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project through PMU with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and forestry practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project and shall cause PAs and UDAs to carry
out their respective obligations under Part B of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) By June 30, 1987, the Borrower shall
complete the aerial and socio-economic studies needed for the
carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project and shall submit an
analysis thereof to the Association.
(b) By December 31, 1987, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association a relocation plan for the purposes of carrying out
Part A.6 of the Project; such plan to ensure that any relocation
shall be within the vicinity of the forest plantations under the
Project and that the economic opportunities and living standards
of the individuals relocated shall not be less than those that
existed prior to relocation.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall mintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts ada4uate to reflect, in
accordance with   sound  accounting pr)c'tices, the   operations,
resources and expenditures in respecfi of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsibla for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The BorrowerY shall:
(i)  have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 6f
this Section, including the Special Account for
each  fiscal year   audited, in   accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning the said accounts, and the audit
thereof, ard said records as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;


﻿-6-
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report thereof
contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) By June 30, 1987, and thereafter, the
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that:
(i) the quantity of forestry products, produced under
the Borrower's community forestry programs in
the Project Area and being marketed through
public marketing institutions, shall not exceed
the demonstrated capacity of such institutions,
including their transport capacity and financial
and staff resources, and that the price paid to
producers for such forestry products shall be
adequate to cover the cost of production and
include a margin sufficient to provide them with
adequate incentives to reinvest in planting;
(ii) the   remaining  production of   forestry  products
under community forestry programs in the Project
Area shall be distributed and marketed freely at
open market prices; and
(iii) the price paid to the Borrower's forestry institu-
tions for forestry products, produced under the
Borrower's state forestry programs in the Project
Area, shall be sufficient to ensure at least full
recovery of production costs.
(b) The Borrower shall review annually the total quantity
of forestry products marketed through public marketing institu-
tions, and the marketing capacity of the public marketing insti-
tutions, and furnish the Association with a report on any such
review.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that a project manager has been employed in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN
Addis Ababa                        21147


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ETHIOPIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By  "     Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a)  Contracted           9,230,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local ex-
penditures
(b) Force Account         7,910,000        70% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Vehicles, Equip-           7,210,000        100% of foreign
ment, Machinery                            expenditures,
and Material                               100% of ex-
factory price if
manufactured
locally, and 60%
of local expendi-
tures
(3) Pack Animals                  90,000        90% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Consulting                 2,200,000        100% of foreign
Services and                               expenditures and
Training                                   80% of local ex-
penditures
(5) Incremental                9,140,000        70% up to an
Operating Cost                             aggregate amount
of SDR 7 mil-
lion, and 50%
thereafter


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Fquivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Refunding of                 270,000        Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                3,550,000
TOTAL          39,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
(c) the term "incremental operating expenses" means sala-
ries and allowances of local personnel, administrative costs
and costs related to maintenance of buildings, operation and
maintenance of vehicles, and the provision of office supplies
incurred specifically for the execution of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿o - 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the supply of
fuelwood and building poles in the Project Area and to reverse
the process of forest and plantation degradation in Ethiopia.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof, as the Borrower and the Ass,ciation may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   State Forestry Program
1.   Rehabilitation of about 13,000 ha of existing fuel-
wood plantations in the surroundings of Addis Ababa
and provision of equipment therefor.
2.   Construction of 30 km of access roads and 60 km of
feeder roads to augment the road system serving the
plantations to be made under Part A.1 above.
3.   Establishment of about 11,000 ha of new plantations in
the surroundings of Addis Abba and at Bahir Dar and
carrying out of socio-economic, road alignment, soil
and demarcation surveys therefor.
4.   Establishment  of   eleven  nurseries   and  equipment
therefor.
5.   Construction of 50 km of access roads and 160 km of
feeder roads to serve the plantations under Part A.3
above.
6.   Construction of housing, schools and clinics, and pro-
vision of water supply for about 4,200 families resid-
ing in the area affected by Part A of th . Project.
Part B:   Community Forestry Program
1.   Establishment of about 1,600 ha of new plantations.
2.   Provision of extension services for the establishment
of about 8,440 ha of new plantations through PAs and
UDAs.


﻿- 12 -
3.   Upgrading of about 1,000 ha of plantations.
4.   Provision of extension services for the upgrading of
about 2,720 ha of existing plantations through PAs and
UDAs.
5.   Establishment of about 190 nurseries and equipment
therefor.
6.   Planting of about 250 ha of fuelwood, poles and fruit
trees around homesteads and public institutions.
Part C:   Forestry Research
Carrying out of applied research to provide information
on new technologies for fuelwpd production, including plan-
tation management, nursery techniques and forestry extension
methods.
Part D:   Training and Technical Assistance
1.   Provision  of   about  ten  overseas   fellowships  for
forestry training.
2.   Provision of vehicles and equipment for forestry train-
ing courses.
3.   Carrying out of in-service training and refresher cour-
ses in forestry skills at Wondo Genet, Alemaya Agricul-
tural University and at other appropriate institutions.
4.   Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out
of activities under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less and contracts for works shall be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
2.   Office equipment may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth,in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines excluding paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 thereof.
3.   Small  off-the-shelf   items, including   office  equipment,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less may be pro-
cured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three local sup-
pliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Works under Parts A.2, A.5 and A.6 of the Project may be
carried out by force account.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more and in respect to each
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Gaidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of each contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contracA2 not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to para-
graph 3 of said Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants, including a senior


﻿- 15 -
forestry expert, a financial controller, a forestry research
specialist witfl n PMU and a monitoring and evaluation expert
within PPD, whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Associati6ta on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
a              Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published
by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   Project Management Unit (PMU)
(a) By October 1, 1986, the Borrower shall establish PMU
within the State Forestry Conservation and Development Department
and shall, at all times during execution of the Project, employ a
project manager as chief of PMU under terms of reference and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
(b) By December 31, 1986, the Borrower shall employ a
senior forestry expert in accordance with the provisions of Sec-
tion II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) During execution of the Project, PMU shall be respons-
ible, under the direct supervision of the head of the State
Forestry Couservation and Development Department, for planning
and overall management of Project activities (including training,
research and road construction), accounting and procurement of
goods and services for the Project.
2.   Monitoring and Evaluation
(a) The Borrower shall monitor, through PPD, the Project
activities, including measurement of Project activities, effects
of the Project on local populations, responses of target popula-
tions, and fluctuations of fuelwood prices.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association through
PPD: (i) six-monthly progress reports in a scope acceptable to
the Association; and (ii) the Completion Report.
(c) By September 30, 1989, the Borrower shall, through PPD,
furnish to the Association terms of reference and a proposal for
the staffing of a review team which shall be responsible for the
,carrying out of a mid-term review.  Such terms of reference and
such proposal to be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
(d) By March 31, 1990, the Borrower shall, through PPD,
furnish to the Association a copy of the mid-term review report.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Annual Work Program
(a) By November 15, 1986, and by February 15 of each sub-
sequent year of execution of the Project, the Borrower shall,
through PMU, furnish to the Association a draft annual work
program for the following FY and afford the Association a reason-
able opportunity to comment on any such work program, which shall
include:
(i) a review of the progress made during the last FY;
(ii) a detailed description of all activities to be
carried out under the Project during the following
FY;
(iii) an estimate for the staff, equipment, machinery,
etc., needed to carry out all such activities;
(iv) financial requirements;
(v) an outline of the procurement arrangements to be
made regarding goods and works to be financed
under the Credit during the following FY; and
(vi) a description of training programs and curricula
vitae of the candidates selected to participate in
training under Part D.1 of the Project.
(b) By December 31, 1986, and by March 31 of each year of
each subsequent years of execution of the Project, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a copy of the final annual work
program for the subsequent FY; any such work program to take into
account the comments made by the Association.
4.   Arrangements for Part B of the Project
(a) the Borrower shall select PAs and UDAs to participate
in, and benefit from, the carrying out of Part B of the Project
in accordance with the criteria, which shall include the follow-
ing:
(i) recognized need among PA or UDA members for estab-
lishing and upgrading plantations;


﻿- 18 -
(ii) acceptance of land allocation (primarily degraded
areas  and   plantations)  for  planting  without
disturbance of existing settlement patterns;
(iii) acceptance of organized community forestry activi-
ties; and
(iv) acceptance of supervision and monitoring activi-
ties arranged by community forestry staff.
(b) By June 30, 1987, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for comment a community forestry upgrading manual
which shall provide the necessary basic operating information
needed by PAs and UDAs for the carrying out of Part B of the
Project.
(c) Upon selection of a PA or UDA, the Borrower shall sign,
through PMU, a legal agreement with any such PA or UDA detailing
the plantation site location, species to be planted, silvicul-
tural regime, a management plan, and definition of the respective
obligations regard.ng the execution of Part B of the Project.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the  term   "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible


﻿- 20 -
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to pa agraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)  the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cat-cd to the Eligible Categories minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawals from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿- 21 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall)
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


