Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21320-KM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(2553)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDRs 9.2 MILLION (US$ 13.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
FOR A POPULATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
December 21, 2000
Human Development 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1993)
Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
CF 1 = US$ 0.003663
US$ = 273'CF
FISCAL YEAR
January l-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS                Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
CDSF                Community Development Support Fund
EPI                 Expanded Program of Immunization
FADC                Fonds D'Appui au Developpement Communautaire
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
IDA                 International Development Association
IEC                 Information, Education, and Communication
ILO                 International Labor Organization (of the UN)
MERCAP              Macroeconomic Reform and Capacity Building Project
MOH                 Ministry of Health
NGO                 Non-governmental Organization
OAU                 Organization of African Unity
PNAC                National Autonomous Pharmacy of Comoros
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager/Director:    Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Malonga Miatudila



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COMOROS: POPULATION & HUMAN RESOURCES PROJECT
CR. 2553
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Perfornance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                    I 1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                  14
10. Additional Information                                                           14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey                                                          27
Annex 9. Borrower's Contribution                                                     31
Map # IBRD 26074
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000596                                       Project Name: POP & HUMAN RESOURCE
Team Leader: Eileen Murray                                TL Unit.' AFMMG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: POP & HUMAN RESOURCE                           LIC/TFNumber: 2553
Country/Department: COMOROS                                              Region: Afiica Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HT - Targeted Health; SA - Social Funds & Social
Assistance
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/21/1990                              Effective: 06/29/1994         06/29/1994
Appraisal:  03/01/1993                                MTR: 06/01/1996            11/01/1996
Approval:  12/14/1993                              Closing: 06/30/1999          06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVT./M1N. OF HEALTH/EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Hafez Ghanem                              Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                            David Berk
Team Leader at ICR:   Eileen Murray, Malonga                   Amolo Ng'weno, Daniel Viens
Miatudila
ICR Primary Author:  Jdr6me Chevallier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactofy, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The broad objective of the project was to strengthen regional and community involvement in population and
human resource development, through improving the delivery of basic health services, and stimulating
complementary community development activities. The project was designed to: (i) help establish efficient



health regions and other supportive services capable of providing comprehensive and cost-effective health
care, including family planning services and AIDS prevention, through community participation,
self-management, and cost recovery; and (ii) support complementiuy initiatives in community development
to develop social infrastructure and grassroots participation in small-scale productive activities. In addition
to its social development objectives, the project was also expected to stimulate economic growth.
The objective was clear, and a detailed set of performance indicators was defined for monitoring the
outputs and outcomes of the project at appraisal, mid-course (1996) and completion (1999). The objective
was realistic, the project sought to build upon a strong tradition of self-help and community participation to
improve the health condition of the Comorian population. The project was important for the Comoros in
view of a high incidence of preventable illnesses and a strong population growth rate (3.1 percent per
annum) in a highly densely populated country, with a high level of unemployment. The project was
consistent with the country assistance strategy (CAS) discussed with the Board in December 1993. The
CAS focused on economic reform, human capital development, and protecting the Comoros' fragile
eco-system. The project was one of three projects included in the five-year lending program, together with
an Education project and an Environment Protection project.
A credit to support economic reform and capacity building (MERCAP) had been approved in December
1992. The reform program emphasized resource mobilization, the streamlining of an over-extended civil
service, the restructuring of public enterprises, and the implementation of a new accounting system for both
public and private enterprises. The project review was consistent with the reform program through its
focus on enhancing the efficiency of the civil service and relying on local communities to improve the
delivery of basic services.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project has not been revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included two components, namely: (a) the improvement of health services, and (b) the
establishment of a Social Fund. The first component included: (i) strengthening and developing program
planning and monitoring capacities at the regional level, and stimulating community participation in health
and population activities; (ii) conducting a series of training activities to increase the productivity of
regional health workers; (iii) strengthening the capacity of MSPP to provide adequate technical and
operational support to regional staff in the implementation of health activities; (iv) partially rehabilitating a
number of health care facilities; (v) designing multi-media, well-targeted Inforrnation, Education and
Communication (IEC) strategies and formulating other population and DIV/AIDS activities; (vi) equipping
about 20 laboratories to improve their diagnostic capabilities for purposes of fertility and HIV/AIDS
control services; and (vii) ensuring regular supply required to carry out fertility and HIV/AIDS control
activities, as well as monitoring the impact of such activities.
The second component was designed to support: the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, including rural
roads and bridges, primary schools, water supply and health care facilities; (ii) income generating
activities; (iii) activities which promote the well-being and development of women; and (iv) training of
communities and groups in appropriate technologies, and in resource and project development and
management.
-2 -



The two components of the project were highly complementary. The development of the health services
component required a strong involvement of local communities. By supporting the development activities
initiated by local communities through the social fund, the project was expected to empower local groups
and improve the conditions for the delivery of health services to the population. The two components were
designed to achieve the project's objectives.
Both components were designed taking into account past experience. The Social Fund component was
developed taking into account the lessons from experience in other African countries and elsewhere in the
world. The Social Fund was designed to finance projects submitted by local communities, especially for the
rehabilitation of social facilities and other key infrastructure. A manual of procedures setting up the
criteria for project financing was agreed upon during negotiations. The contribution of local communities
to the cost of sub-projects was expected to be no less than 20 percent. Non governmental organizations
(NGOs), local and international, were closely associated in the design of the Social Fund. A first batch of
projects, of which 20 for the rehabilitation of primary schools and 12 for improving water supply, was
prepared for fnancing during the first year of project implementation under funds made available through
the on-going Second Education Project at the time. The Social Fund was also expected to finance
income-generating activities in close association with an ongoing program supported by the UNDP and
ILO. Finally the Social Fund was to focus on training for local communities, with particular emphasis on
women's groups.
With regard to the health component, lessons were drawn from experience gained under several activities
financed by the donor community in the health sector in the Comoros. In the early 1990s, the UNDP
supported a pilot program, which aimed at improving the administrative and financial management of the
health center located in Misoudje. The Pilot program was highly successful. The success has been mainly
attributed to close involvement of the local community in construction of the building, and in the
management, financing and maintenance of the facility.
Prior to the UNDP-assisted project, the Bank had approved its first health project in the Comoros. The
project was launched in 1982 and completed in 1991, and was instrumental in establishing family planning
services in most health centers and in improving the attitudes of religious and other leaders on the issue.
With regard to the pharmaceutical sub-sector, the project succeeded in establishing PNAC (Pharmacie
Nationale Autonome des Comores) as an autonomous agency charged with the procurement and
distribution of essential generic drugs in the countiy. This agency enabled the population to have easier
access to essential drugs.
Little progress was made in other components for a number of reasons. The project was prepared in the
Ministry of Planning with minimal involvement of officials from the Ministry of Health, which was
expected to implement it. Moreover, the project was too complex for the recently-created Ministry of
Health. It was also designed to support vertical programs with no attempt to address systemic issues of the
health sector. Finally, it neglected the fiscal environment of the project at a time when the country's public
finance situation was strained.
The shortcomings of the First Health Project were taken into account in designing the health component of
the Population and Human Resource Development Project (PHRD) under review. PHRD was prepared in
close cooperation with the Ministry of Health, and the detailed technical specifications were agreed upon
during negotiations. The health component of PHRD took into account the lessons from the Mitsoudje
pilot project (a UJNDP-financed health facility which tested cost recovery schemes for community-based
health facilities). PHRD sought to give increased supervisory responsibilities to regional health teams,
organize on-the-job training for staff, and promote community participation in the management of health
- 3-



facilities. Performance indicators were established for each regional team. Health centers were given
increased autonomy in staff administration, price setting for services and resource management. It was
expected that reforms supported by MERCAP would result in more regular budget allocations to the health
sector, and to project facilities in particular.
The central services of the Ministry of Health were to be reinforced to enable them to better discharge their
responsibilities in planning, norm setting, training and monitoring and evaluating performance. Health
centers were to be rehabilitated, taking into account a set of priorities. Before any rehabilitation, however,
local communities were expected to commit their support to the cost of investment and maintenance of the
facilities. The Social Fund, established under the second component of the project, was expected, inter
alia,to help local communities meet their commitmnent.
A health sector policy letter was agreed upon during negotiations. It summarized the basic principles of the
1991 National Plan for the Development of Health, and provided a set of guidelines for the management of
health facilities in close association with local communities. It also indicated that, starting in late 1994,
three-year rolling expenditure programs established jointly by the Ministries of Health and Finance, would
be reviewed annually by IDA. At least 20 percent of annual budgets would cover non-wage costs.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was not restructured during implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry of the PHRD is rated satisfactory. The project was fully consistent with the country
assistance strategy and the reform program initiated by the Government with support from the Bank in
1991. The health component of the project was in keeping with the National Plan for the Development of
the Health Sector enacted in 1991. The project took into account the lessons from past experience in the
Comoros and in other parts of the world. Its two components were mutually reinforcing. Both components
were carefully designed in close association with local groups and NGOs. Detailed specifications and
procedures were agreed upon in the course of project preparation and processing. Sub-projects were
available for Social Fund financing before project start-up. This is mainly due to the Canadian NGO,
CECI's successful job on the community mobilization side. A training program was also formulated.
Performance indicators were defined for mid-term and project completion. The French bilateral aid agency
was expected to finance a system for collecting and processing health statistics.
The risk section in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was appropriate, particularly when compared to
similar sections of SARs prepared in the early 1990s. The three risks envisaged were the lack of
appropriate funding, the low capacity of the government administration, and political instability.
Mitigation measures included the strengthening of community management for health facilities, granting
autonomy to the management of the Social Fund, the training of staff, and provision of technical assistance.
Eventually, the project suffered from the lack of appropriate funding and political instability.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
From 1994 to 1996, the project was successful. In the last three years of project implementation, the
-4 -



social, economic, and political situation deteriorated, and thus project activities were at a standstill. In
1997, the population of the island of Anjouan, the poorest and most densely populated island in the
three-island country, decided to secede. The Organization of African Unity (OAU) imposed sanctions on
the secessionist island, including an embargo, resulting in a heavy toll on the well- being of the population,
particularly its poorest segments. In view of these developments, the projects overall outcome is rated
unsatisfactory.
In August 1998, the accumulation of arrears by the Comoros, led to the suspension of disbursements. The
suspension was lifted, but in January 2000, only. The worsening of the fiscal situation resulted in an
increased irregularity in the payment of wages to civil servants, with negative consequences on staff
morale, including in the Ministry of Health. The progress made under the project before the crisis was
seriously compromised, as a consequence. Since early 1999, the project has been consistently rated
unsatisfactory for development objective and implementation progress.
The political crisis is in the process of being resolved. With recent improvements in economic management
and national reconciliation, it is expected that some of its achievements may have a lasting impact on the
well being of the Comorian population. In addition, the government showed its commitment to working
with the Bank by settling the IDA arrears late 1999. The Bank, as a result of this positive step, undertook a
full-fledged CPPR in March 2000, where objectives and activities for all on-going projects were re-visited
to take into account the new socio-economic context.
Outcome/Achievement of Objective. Despite an overall environment not conducive to the implementation
of development programs, the project achieved its overarching objective, which was to strengthen regional
and community involvement in population and human resource development. Community participation in
the management of health facilities and in the preparation and implementation of projects supported by the
Social Fund was particularly robust. On the other hand, contrary to expectations, the project had no
significant impact on economic growth, which was negative during most of the period of project
implementation. The project also had little visible impact on health indicators, which have remained poor.
Achievement of the project development objectives is rated unsatisfactory, because the project has not
improved the health status of the population.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Management of the Ministry of Health. Up to 1997, the management of the Ministry of Health had
considerably improved. In 1994, the Ministry established a national committee for the implementation of
sector reforms and launched a major information campaign to discuss the basic principles of reform with
the staff and the representatives of the population. The principles were community participation in the
financing and management of health facilities, and the delivery of health services through the 17 health
districts under the responsibility of regional teams. Two laws and 8 implementing decrees were enacted to
irnplement the reform. The reforms included: (i) the reorganization of the Ministry of Health with more
emphasis on the regional directorates and a redefinition of the role of the central units; (ii) conversion of
public hospitals and health centers into public establishments with administrative and financial autonomy,
or into not-for-profit private organizations, with board of directors and management committees, including
representatives of the population; and (iii) introduction of cost recovery. Managers of most health
facilities, with the notable exception of the main hospital in Moroni, the capital city, were selected in
consultation with the boards of directors. A total of about 500 poorly qualified staff was declared
redundant. A program to lure back Comorian doctors living abroad was successfully implemented. An
ambitious and comprehensive program to train health staff within the country using as much as possible
- 5 -



Comorian nationals was designed, but administrative and bureaucratic inefficiencies prevented about half
of the planned training activities from proceeding.
Despite temporary paralysis of the health system in recent years and the deterioration in staff morale,
achievement under the first sub-component is rated satisfactory. The scope and depth of the reforms
supported by the project are unique in sub-Saharan Africa.
Rehabilitation of health facilities. The project financed the rehabilitation and equipment of two regional
hospitals and three health centers. Works were carried out by local enterprises and were considered
satisfactory overall. Works were completed in one hospital on Moheli island and in one health center on
Grande Comore. Works in two health facilities in Anjouan were halted during the recent crisis. Works did
not even begin for one health center in Grande Comore (Fomboni), because the Government did not want
an opposition leader who had won the contract to benefit. In addition, at the time of credit closing, the
planned equipment had not yet been put in place in most facilities. The persistent lack of funds for the
maintenance of rehabilitated health facilities is a major drawback. Overall, this sub-component is rated
unsatisfactory.
Promotion of population and AIDS prevention activities. Family planning activities have been included
in the basic health care package of the Ministry of Health. Health center staff have been trained in family
planning issues. IEC campaigns using both modern communications methods and traditional networks
have been supported by the project. The latest demographic survey conducted in 1996 showed that the
modern contraceptive prevalence rate has increased to 8 percent, from 3 percent when the project was
prepared. Much more remains to be done, however, in view of the high population growth in a country,
which is already highly densely populated. The HIV prevalence rate remains low at less than 1 percent.
The strong traditional values of an Islamic society are an obstacle to promoting modem family planning, as
well as activities to curtail the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The sub-component is rated satisfactory.
The Social Fund component. This component has been successful in mobilizing local communities for the
implementation of infrastructure. Schools have been by far the investment for which the demand was the
highest. A total of 215 classrooms in 90 schools have been built. Water supply and sanitation projects
came next, with a total of about 40 projects completed. Thirteen health posts and ten training and women
development centers have been built with the support of the Social Fund. Local infrastructure, such as
rural roads and bridges (8) and markets (8), has also been supported by the Fund. Out of a total of 219
projects completed, 107 were carried out in Grande Comore, 72 in Anjouan, and 40 in Moheli. It is
estimated that about three quarters of the country's population has benefited directly or indirectly from
projects implemented with the support of the Social Fund.
Initial difficulties in procurement, construction standards, inadequate performance of some local
enterprises, cost overruns, and insufficient supervision of works were gradually overcome. Two technical
audits were carried out and found that works on the whole were of good quality and procurement
procedures were followed. The auditors made specific recommendations that were for their most part
directed at making best use of local resources, including local consultants and contractors, and establishing
standards and systems for updating unit costs of sub-projects. To address the issue of inadequate
maintenance of new facilities, it was agreed during negotiations that the up-front contribution of
beneficiaries to the cost of new investment in water supply would be increased from 20 to 25 percent of
total cost.
The administrative cost of the Social Fund has been consistently much higher than initially anticipated. In
the early years, the Social Fund administration has been involved in the day-to-day supervision of project
-6 -



activities, resulting in a high overhead cost Eventually, an increasing part of the supervision activities was
contracted out to local consultants. This did not reduce cost substantially, however. Disbursements for
operating costs of the social fund represented 31.5 percent of disbursements for sub-projects, compared to
22.5 percent estimated at appraisal. The high cost of air travel between islands has been a contributing
factor to high administrative cost.
Income-generating activities supported by the Social Fund started in 1998. Small credits in an amount of
less than the equivalent of US$200 each were extended through the development bank of Comoros, mutual
funds and local committees. A total of approximately US$200,000 was extended for the financing of 42
sub-projects.
A beneficiary survey was carried out in 1997. The survey revealed that local committees including, the
elders in the communities, the youth and women, were all highly satisfied with the support they received
from the fund. In most villages, beneficiaries did not mind participating in the cost of the works, but some
villages, mainly in the poorer islands of Anjouan and Moheli thought that the 20 percent contribution was
too high. Over 75 percent of the communities surveyed indicated that they wanted the social fund to
provide increased training. Most local communities were clearly committed to the sustainability of their
investments as maintenance schemes were in place by 85 percent of them. A summary of the survey's
findings is in Annex 8.
The Social Fund component is rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A
4.4 Financial rate ofreturn:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was substantial. The Ministry of Health is now functioning a little
better due to the re-deployment of staff to the regions. In parallel, health facilities were rendered
autonomous, and due to the cost-sharing mechanisms that were put in place, these facilities are functioning
much better now.
On the social fund side, the institution is perceived by the Government, the population, and donors as the
key mechanism for community development activities in the three islands.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Political instability, including several coup attempts and frequent changes in governmnent affected project
implementation. The decision by Anjouan leaders in 1997 to secede from the Comoros, and the resulting
political chaos was a major obstacle to the completion of project activities. The inability of that
government to bring about a solution to the Anjouan secession sparked riots in Grande Comore. On April
30, 1999 the army staged a bloodless coup and promised improved management and a return to civilian
rule. In December 1999 a civilian Prime Minister was appointed with the support of 22 out of the
-7 -



Comoros' 30 political parties. Intense negotiations in July/August 2000 between the government and the
Anjouanese rebels resulted in ajoint declaration calling for the reunification of the country with a large
degree of autonomy for each island.
The devaluation of the Comorian franc by 33 percent in foreign exchange terms in January 1994
contributed to increasing the competitiveness of the Comorian economy, but was not sufficient for setting it
onto a sustainable growth path. The Comoros continued to rely for its exports on a small group of
commodities, with highly volatile world prices. Tourism, which was a growth industry in the late 1980s
and early 1990s, was affected by political instability, and hotels' occupancy rates dropped to below 50
percent in recent years. Under MERCAP, the ratio of government revenues to GDP was expected to
increase from 14.2 percent in 1991 to 17.8 percent on average for the period 1998-2002. Actually it is
estimated to have declined to 13.8 percent in 1999. Under these conditions, the Government proved unable
to implement its recurrent budget. At end- 1999, accumulated wage arrears were about twice the annual
wage bill. The rate of execution of non-wage expenditures in the social sector was below 30 percent in
1999.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
External factors had a negative impact on growth and fiscal revenues, but successive governments were, for
most of them, not strongly committed to reforms. Revenue mobilization efforts were short lived and public
expenditure control remained weak throughout most of the project implementation period. The failure of
the Government to provide adequate funding to health facilities, which were scheduled to be rehabilitated
under the project, delayed the program of civil works under the health component. Such funding was a
condition of disbursement for the civil works under that component. The condition was met, but in
December 1995 only. Following this initial funding, however, health facilities had to rely on a high level of
cost recovery to make up for the lack of operating subsidies from the Government. Lack of counterpart
funding has been a perennial problem during project implementation. Accumulation of arrears to civil
servants was also a recurrent phenomenon, which created serious morale problems, particularly toward the
end of project implementation.
Political instability brought about frequent changes in the staffing of key positions within ministries.
Sometimes, the Government interfered in the procurement process or the supervision of works. In one
instance, the contractor for the rehabilitation of a hospital was prevented from completing the works for
about ten months, because he was considered to be a political opponent by the government in place. In
another incident, for the same reason, wings of an existing health center were demolished to give room to
new structures which were not erected up to credit closing on June 30, 2000. The project management unit
(PMU) was the only unit, which was not affected oy the frequent changes in staffing. This significantly
reduced the negative impact of political instability on project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The two project implementation agencies did
their best under difficult circumstances. They managed to implement the project despite inadequate
government financial support.
-8 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Cost and Financing. The table below shows the categories of disbursement by components as initially
scheduled and as actually paid in thousands US dollars.
Categories             A                   B                  B/A
Initial disbursements    Actual               (%)
disbursements
Health
Equipment                      1,830                474                 26
Civil works                    1,760              1,437                 96
Training                       1,150                999                 87
Consultants                     420                 924                220
Operating costs                 450                 741                 165
Special account                                   (38.8)
Sub-total                       5,610              4,575                 82
Social Fund
Sub-projects                   5,450              5,150                 94
Operating costs                1,170              1,620                138
Special account                                  (123.3)
Sub-total                       6,620              6,770                 102
PPF                               800                726                  91
Grand Total                    13,029             12,071                 93
Disbursements for the Social Fund component were higher than initially expected, but lower for the health
component. The devaluation of the Comorian franc in 1994 resulted in a higher amount available from the
credit in local currency. This increased amount was mainly used to finance a larger number of activities
under the Social Fund component than initially expected. Disbursements for operating costs were 38.5
percent higher than expected at appraisal. This resulted from the under estimation of operating cost,
particularly for the Social Fund, as well as from the failure by the Government to provide sufficient
counterpart funding.
On the health component, the low disbursement rate for equipment is basically due to the fact that project
activities were at a standstill since August 1998, when disbursements were suspended for an
eighteen-month period. Even though the bidding process took place for this equipment, the Ministry of
Health was unable to award the contracts, and make the purchases due to this eighteen-month suspension of
disbursement.
In spite of problems encountered during implementation, including the delay in meeting the disbursement
condition for the rehabilitation of health facilities, there has never been a significant lag in disbursements.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating.
Rationale for sustainability rating. Most facilities built or rehabilitated under the project have operated to
the satisfaction of the beneficiaries in spite of a chronic absence of government funding. The people have
developed a strong tradition of community participation and self-help. The project has successfully built
upon this tradition and, as a result, health centers are managed by local communities, which ensures,
among other things, that many health issues are discussed locally and promptly dealt with. Local
infrastructure sub-projects supported by the Social Fund are fully under the control of the local population.
For instance, most schools built with project funding operate with teachers directly paid by the local
communities. Contributions from the local population are complemented by considerable transfers from
the large Comorian community living abroad.
The recent crisis has demonstrated once again the resiliency of Comoros' local communities. Continuous
under-funding by the Government of its operating expenditures in the social sectors, including the wage bill
of civil servants, seriously weakens the sustainability of large facilities financed by the project. Funds
generated by cost recovery in the health sector have been reported to be used to pay for salaries of health
workers, making it difficult for local communities to meet other operating expenses, including for the
maintenance of facilities.
In 1999, the new Government has made efforts to re-establish fiscal discipline, including the payment of
arrears to IDA, which enabled IDA to lift the suspension of disbursements in January 2000. For the
project to be sustainable, however, these efforts are to continue over the long-term.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In FY98, IDA approved two follow-up credits, the first one to support continuation of the social fund
activities for the rehabilitation or construction of communal infrastructure and the creation of
micro-enterprises, and the second one to consolidate the results achieved under the health component of the
project. Implementation of both projects has been seriously disrupted by the recent crisis and the
suspension of IDA disbursements from August 1998 to January 2000.
Nonetheless, recent development in Comoros augur well for the resolution of the conflict with Anjouan and
improved economic management. With the deterioration of social services and increase in poverty in recent
years, IDA is working closely with other donors, including the EU, UNDP, and the RMF, to provide
comprehensive assistance to combat poverty. Following the settlement of arrears in January 2000, IDA
lifted the suspension and resumed project activities in key social sectors. Moreover, the Board approved an
Interim Support Strategy in November 2000 to assist the Government in its efforts to strengthen economic
management, achieve national reconciliation and fight poverty. The Government's medium-term program of
reconstruction focusing on the improvement of social services and living conditions for the poor as one of
its key pillars. These factors thus strengthen the likelihood of the sustainability of this project, but
sustainability rests with government maintaining fiscal discipline.
- 10 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is rated
satisfactory. On the Bank side, the project was fully consistent with the country assistance strategy. On
the Government side, it was consistent with the Government's plan for the health sector. The project was
well designed. It sought to strengthen regional and local involvement in the development of human
resources, and build upon a strong tradition of community participation. It adhered to the Bank's
safeguard policies.
The Government was committed to the project, as evidenced by the courageous and far-reaching reforms
implemented in the health sector in the early years of project execution. It was expected that the
Government would be able to finance recurrent expenditures in the social sectors, as a result of the
implementation of its economic reform program supported by MERCAP. The implementation capacity of
the Borrower was properly assessed. The project was a simple one, with two components, which were
expected to be mutually reinforcing. About 45 sub-projects were prepared for Social Fund financing
before Board presentation. Some of them were in the process of being implemented with financing from a
PPF advance. Experience showed that expectations in the SAR for the Social Fund component were
achievable
Project risks were clearly identified. The risks of inadequate counterpart financing and political instability
materialized, but to an extent, which was, in both cases, beyond expectations. The project design proved to
be robust, however, as the objective and most outputs were achieved. The appraisal report included an
iinpressive list of performance indicators for the health component. The French bilateral cooperation had
an arrangement with the Government to establish a system for monitoring health indicators. However, the
system never became operational, making it impossible to assess progress in meeting the performance
indicators set forth in the SAR.
7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank in the supervision of the project is rated satisfactory. There was a
remarkable continuity in the staffing of the Bank team. Following a project launch workshop in May 1994,
two supervision missions visited the Comoros each year. A mid-term review took place in 1996. It
highlighted the need to make greater use of local consultants and promote the development of local
enterprises through training. It also emphasized the need to put increased focus on the maintenance of
facilities and made recommendations to that effect.
Supervision missions were issue-oriented and sought to assist the implementing agencies execute the project
with diligence. Reporting was timely, accurate and informative. The ratings were generally adequate,
except in 1997, when the project was rated highly satisfactory for implementation progress and
development objective, despite serious problems encountered with counterpart financing. Supervision
reports were adequate in discussing the achievement of development objectives. Actions to establish a
system for monitoring performnance indicators in the health sector were not taken by the Borrower and its
partners. This is partly due to extremely weak capacity in the country and also to political instability and
insecurity during the early years of project implementation. In the absence of most achievement indicators,
- 1 1 -



Annex 1 shows the baseline of various indicators at appraisal, the actual indicators achieved (available in
few cases) and the target agreed upon during negotiations.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
The performance of the Borrower in the preparation of the project is rated fully satisfactory. The teams in
charge of project preparation were highly motivated. They made a significant contribution to a sound
design of the project. They were closely in contact with the stakeholders and listened to their concerns.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite the delay in meeting the condition of disbursement for the rehabilitation of health facilities, the
Govermments performance in the execution of the project was satisfactory early on. It implemented an
ambitious program of reforms in the health sector and helped put the Social Fund on a sound footing. In
the final years of project execution, however, the government performance deteriorated. The government
failed to provide the minimum required for counterpart funds and for recurrent expenditures in the health
sector. The inability of the Government to address the serious poverty issues facing the population of
Anjouan resulted in an open crisis, which has taken a heavy toll on overall economic and social
performance. Overall the performance of the Government is rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The two implementing agencies were effective in implementing their components, despite recurrent
difficulties with counterpart funding and frequent government interference in the procurement process. The
Social Fund administration demonstrated that a lot could be achieved when projects were prepared and
implemented with the close participation of the beneficiaries. It made the necessary adjustments to take
into account lessons from experience, recommendations made by technical audits and suggestions made by
beneficiaries. The Social Fund administration was able to deliver a large program of works without any
technical assistance, which is highly commendable. The performance of the implementing agencies is rated
satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory, in spite of the achievements brought about
by the project in the field. The Government was unable to set the country on a growth path. Economic and
social conditions deteriorated, and poverty worsened in past years, in spite of the services provided by the
facilities rehabilitated or built under the project.
8. Lessons Learned
As already indicated in the project completion report for the first health project issued in 1992, conditions
- 12 -



prevailing in the Comoros for implementing development projects are difficult. Major obstacles include a
stagnating island economy, extremely weak public institutions, government incapacity to remunerate
adequately its civil service, and a strong tradition of village politics leading to political and social
instability. On the other hand, local communities can be easily mobilized to channel their energies and
resources towards the achievement of common goals. Lessons from the project should be seen in that
context.
The first and most important lesson is that projects in the social sectors in the Comoros should be designed
so as to reinforce the dynamism of local communities. Even if the Comoros makes sustained progress on
the path of sound fiscal management, the country will be unable, for a long period of time, to mobilize the
resources needed to pay an expanding number of civil servants in the social sectors. The population has
demonstrated its willingness to pay the local teachers hired to teach in the schools built with Social Fund
support. Direct payment of teachers and health workers by the beneficiaries is more efficient than
collecting taxes for that purpose. The Comoros should envisage reforms that would reduce the need to
maintain an ever expanding civil service, and rely instead on the dynamism of local communities. Other
countries, which have also great difficulties increasing the ratio of government revenues to GDP beyond 15
percent, should also consider such reforms, and the Bank should be prepared to assist.
The second lesson is that testing different approaches for sub-project preparation, financing and
supervision before committing a large amount of resources, as was done with the Social Fund before Board
approval of the project, is highly desirable. The Social Fund component was well prepared and its
implementation went smoothly. Adjustments were made during execution to take account of the lessons
from experience. Technical audits and beneficiary surveys were conducted with project funding to help the
Social Fund correct deficiencies and better meet the concerns of the population.
The third lesson is that the share of operating expenditures in total cost for a newly-established Social Fund
in a context such as the Comoros is bound to be high. It takes time to develop the local enterprise sector,
which is expected to carry out and supervise a large number of works spread across several islands. In the
meanwhile, the Social Fund administration has to step in and use its resources to help local communities
implement their projects. In addition, beneficiary surveys indicated that the population insisted on getting
appropriate training to better manage their projects. This legitimate demand increased administrative costs,
which eventually represented about 31.5 percent of sub-project cost, compared to 22.5 percent estimated at
appraisal. Under the follow on project, this share is expected to be 24.5 percent.
The fourth lesson is about cost sharing and therefore the population's willingness to pay for services
delivered in health. Cost sharing from the beneficiary population enabled the health system to continue to
operate despite the lack of government funding, even for health worker salaries. This has enabled the
Board of Directors and management committees of health facilities to function adequately since they were
empowered by the population, due to the new cost sharing schemes that were put in place by the project.
The fifth lesson is that adequate methods need to be developed to monitor the health status of the
population. Experience has shown that relying on the Government to produce statistics on time is not a
viable solution. Local communities should be endowed with the capacity to collect and analyze simple sets
of data. Representatives of the population should be given appropriate tools to monitor performance health
activities and make adjustments as appropriate.
Finally, in countries with weak central institutions, but strong local communities, the flexibility in moving
funds rapidly to support communities' projects may be a productive approach. In countries prone to
political instability, such an approach may yield positive development results.
- 13 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
This Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Bank on the Population and Human Resources
Project reflects the reality in the country. The Health component's objective was to improve health services
and the second component's objective was to put in place the Fonds D'appui au Developpement
Communautaire (FADC). These 2 components were complementary. They both tried to involve Comorian
population groups in community development activities. Regarding the first component, the project tried to
seek community involvement as a means for improving health services. The second component's main
objective was to help communities implement community-based development activities that were
meaningful to them.
The continuity of Bank staff in Project supervision was very much appreciated by the Comorian
Government. It is unfortunate that political events in Comoros, these past few years, have caused delays in
project implementation. At many instances, during project implementation the Government was not able to
pay its civil servants in time nor to finance operating expenditures of health facilities that were rehabilitated
by the Project. However, the Comorian Government has made big efforts recently to improve public
finances.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
-14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
OBJECTIVE/STRATEGY/ACTIVITY/                           End of
PERFORMANCE INDICATOR                              Proiect
Baseline  Actuals   Target
1. Ensure the development of human resources
Women's life expectancy at birth (years)     56.00               56.00
Global fertility rate (per 1,000 women aged 15-    216.20       110.00
44)
Total fertility rate                          6.60                5.00
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)      44.50               40.00
Gross mortality rate (Per 1,000 population)  13.60               10.00
Maternal mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)  460.00         100.00
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)  91.90             60.00
Under-Five mortality rate (per 1000)        131.50               75.00
Mean birth interval (months)                                     36.00
Number of cases of neo-natal tetanus (per year)                  10.00
Number of deaths from malaria among children   2,200.00         700.00
aged less than 5 years (per year)
Number of deaths from diarrheal diseases   1,800.00             600.00
among children aged less than 5 years (per year)
Prevalence of Iodine deficiency among women
aged 15 years and above (per 1,000)
Percent of children 0-49 months with more than
two standard deviation below the reference
median for weight for age
Annual growth rate of HIV sero-positivity                         0.00
among pregnant women
Sero-positivity rate for human treponema     22.20                2.00
pallidum type A among pregnant women
Contraceptive prevalence rate among women     3.00      8.00     10.00
aged 15-44
-15 -



1.1. Improve the delivery of basic health services
Total number of new out-patient visits per year  50.00         200.00
and per 100 residents
Value of pharmaceuticals distributed annually  70,2            147.75
by public institutions (in FC milllion)
Percentage of pregnant women with more than  25.00              90.00
two pre-natal visits
Births correctly assisted (per year)         27.20              60.00
Family Planning visits (per year)        18,253.00          50,000.00
Contraceptives used (Couples-Years of        7.40               18.00
protection per 100 women aged 15-45 years, per
annum)
Percent of children 12-23 months completely  85.00              90.00
immunized
1.1.1 Improve the management of the Ministry of Health
Cumulative number of MOH Staff trained under  0.00    864.00    230.00
the project
Cumulative number of functioning regional     0.00               3.00
health teams
Cumulative number of health facilities with  0.00     18.00     20.00
Managing Associations
Cumulative number of Hospitals with           0.00     8.00      3.00
fonctioning Boards of Directors
Cumulative number of health facilities headed  0.00             23.00
by a trained managers                                 .
Cumulative person-months of training provided       2,095.00    357.00
.to MOH staff by the project
1.1.2 Rehabilitate health facilities
Cumulative number of health facilities made   0.00               5.00
fonctional by the project
Cumulative number of health facilities        0.00     5.00      7.00
rehabilitated by the project
Cumulative number of health facilities equiped  0.00   0.00      5.00
by the project
-16 -



Doses of vaccines administered annually by
the EPI program (Thousands of doses)    .                    20000
Condoms distributed per year (Thousands of  287.90          1,200.00
_  _   units)
Contraceptives other than condoms distributed  7,131.00    17,490.00
annually (Couples-Years of protection)
1.1.3 Promote Population and HIV/AIDS prevention
Iactivities
Cumuiative number of aborato ries equip ed for  1.00  17.00    17.00
EHlV/AIDS control activities
Cumulative number of health centers provided         18.00     0.00
with LEC equipment by the Project
Cumultative number of surveys conducted in            3.00,    6.00
the areas of Family Planning and Population
Number... . . . . . . .          .      - - - - - - - of --V -test performed per year    --_--l
Number of HIV  tests performed per year
__ ~~Number of Syphilis tests performned per yearX
1.2. Support community development initiatives
Population benefiting from classrooms built by  0.00 1459532.00!
the project bet  from
F          Population benefiting from health posts built by  0.00 45,723.00
the project
Population benefiting from water supply     0.00 66,226.00
systems built by the project
Population benefiting from feeder roads built  0.00  8,971.00
l   lby the project         .         .   .  . .    .    .   .
tPopulation benefiting from centres de       0.00  7,733.00
promotion f&minine built by the project          -
iPopulation benefiting from centres de       0.00 23,149.00
promotion professionnelle built by the proiect1
Population benefiting from the sewerage     0.00  10,651.00
system built by the project
i        jPopulation benefiting from anti-erosion      0.00    956.00
structures built by the project
- 17 -



1.2.1 Support rehabilitation/renovation of basic social
infrastructure
Cumulative number of classrroms built under   0.00    215.00    200.00
the project
Cumulative number of Health posts             0.00     11.00
built/renovated by the Project
Cumulative number of water systems            0.00     33.00
Cumulative number of local markets created by  0.00     5.00
the project
petits systemes d'irrigation                  0.00      1.00
Cumulative number of small-scale fisheries    0.00      1.00
organized under the project
Cumulative number of kilometers of feeding    0.00
roads built by the project
Cumulative number of sewerage structures built  0.00    6.00
by the project
Cumulative number of anti-erosion structures  0.00      3.00
built by the project
1.2.2 Support income-generating activities                                 180.00
SCumulative number of loans granted by the     0.00     50.00
|project
1.2.3 Support the training of members of Community
Committees
Cumulative number of Community Pilot          0.00    177.00    180.00
Committees made operational by the Project
Cumulative number of Community Pilot          0.00    288.00
Committees created by the Project
Cumulative number of members of the           0.00  4,134.00  5,731.00
Community Pilot Committees trained by the
Project
1.2.4 Support special programs for women
|Number of Centers for Women's Development     0.00      4.00
created by the Project
Number of Centers for Professional Training   0.00      5.00
created by the Project
- 18 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost by              Appraisal               Actual/Latest             Percentage of
Component                  Estimate                  Estimate                  Appraisal
USS million               US$ million
Health                             5.61                       4.75                     91.27
Social Fund                        6.62                      7.07                      117.83
PPF                                0.80                       0.72                      90.54
Total Project Costs                13.03                     12.54                     96.24
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ milion)
Expenditure Category             ICB         LCB        Other       Total Costs
1. Goods                              1.27                   0.56         1.83
l _______________________      _ =  l (1.27)                 (0.56)       (1.83)
2. Civil works                                   1.76                     1.76
I _______________________  l                  l_____  (1.76)              (1.76)
3. Consultants                                               0.42         0.42
___________________________  _________  ________    (0.42)       (0.42)
4. Training                                                   1.15        1.15
1= _____________________________                             (1.15)       (1.15)
5. MOH Oper. Costs                                           2.44         2.44
(0.45)      (0.45)
6. CDSF Inc. Op. Cost                                        1.19         1.19
(1.19)      (1.19)
7. CDSF Sub-Projects                            4.93         1.52         6.45
(4.93)     (0.50)       (5.43)
8. Refinancing PPF                                           0.80         0.80
(0.80)      (0.80)
TOTAL                 1.27       6.69         8.08       16.04
(1.27)    (6.69)       (5.07)      (13.03)
Note: Figures in parathesis are amount financed by IDA
-19 -



Project Costs Financed by IDA by Procurement Arrangements
(Actual/Latest Estimate)
(US Mif lions)
Expenditure Category       ICB      LCB        Other    Total Costs
1. Goods                     0.322     0.34       0.118        0.474
2. Civil works                 0         1.437      0          1.437
3. Consultants               0.106     0.134      0.684        0.924
4. Training                    0          0       0.999        0.999
5. MOH Oper. Costs             0          0       0.741        0.741
6. CDSF Inc. Op. Cost          0          0       1.620        1.620
7. CDSF Sub-Projects           0        2.500    2.650         5.150
8. Refmancing PPF              0          0       0.726        0.726
TOTAL          0.428       4.105    7.536        12.071
PROJECT FINANCING BY COMPONENT
(TN USS THOUS, _NDS EOUIVATLENT
Component       Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate     Percentage of
Appraisal
IDA     Govt. Benefi-  IDA       Govt  Benefi-  IDA  Govt Benefi-
ciaries       ciaries                  .     ciaries
A. Supportto    5,610   1,990    0       4,575   -              82
Health Sector
B. Community   6,620   1,017    0        6,770   94
Development
Support Fund
C. PPF            800      0    0         726           1,162
D. Unallocated
TOTAL    13,030  3,007    0        12,071   94      1,162
-20 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of~roo Cy~No. of Perons ard Specialty                          P fr         a~
(e.g. 2 Economists, I , MS, etc.)    ...l . . ..t .. ,   .- o m E
Month/Year    Cut         speiat                                             Ojctv
Identification/Preparation
07/1991                       2   Economist
I   Health and Population Specialist
I   Education Specialist
11/1991                       1   Consultant (Sociologist)
05/1992                       1   Economist (Task Manager)
1   Engineer
10/1992                       1   Economist (Task Manager)
I   Engineer
I   Public Health Specialist
05/1993                       1   Economist
I   Community Development
AppraisallNegotiation
03/1993                       1   Education Specialist
I   Public Health Specialist
I   Specialist in Community
Dev.
I   Implementation Specialist
I   Economist
I   IEC Specialist
I   Consultant
05/1993                       1   Economist (Task Manager)
I   Community Development
Supervision
01/1994                        1  Task Manager                         HS                HS
05/1994                        1  Task Manager/Economist                S                 S
I  Public Health Specialist
I  Procurement Specialist
I  Financial Specialist
I  Consultant
11/1994                       1  Task Manager/Economist                S                  S
1  Public Health Specialist
1  Financial Specialist
1  Consultant
06/1995                        1  Task Manager                          S                 S
12/1995                       1  Task Manager                          HS                HS
I  Community Development
07/1996                        1  Task Manager                         HS                HS
I  Public Health Specialist
11/1996                        1  Task Manager                         HS                HS
Economist
Public Health Specialist
IEC Specialist
06/1997                        1  Task Manager                         HS                HS
1  Public Health Specialist
-22 -



11/1997                        1  Task Manager                          S                  S
I  Public Health Specialist
07/1998                        1  Task Manager                          S                  S
I  Public Health Specialist
10/1998                        1  Task Manager                          U                  U
11/1999                        1  Task Manager                          U                  U
ICR
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActalLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              USS (,XO0)
Identification/Preparation               160.2                       422.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                     93.4                       261.2
Supervision                              111.4                       390.2
ICR                                       6.37                        18.2
Total                                  371.37                       1091.8
-23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
l Macro policies                         O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
a Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
E Gender                           OH OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
0 Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
nO Lending                                          OHS OS OCU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS   C U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
nl Preparation                                      OHS OS   C U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  * HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
Ol Overall                                          OHS OS  * U  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report, Federal Islamic Republic of Comores, Population and Human Resources Project.
November 19, 1993.
Development Credit Agreement, Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros, January 18, 1994.
Aide-memoires of preparation, Appraisal, and supervision reports of Bank missions.
-26 -



Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey
Beneficiary Survey (Summary of the survey)
The objective of the survey was to assess the perceptions of communities concerning the Social
Fund, its procedures, its results, the changes brought about by investment made, and the nature of
projects required. To that end, forty committees were contacted: twenty in Grande Comore,
fifteen in Anjouan, four in Moheli, forty independent beneficiaries, forty elders, forty youths and
twenty women associations. During field interviews steering committees, elders, including the
village chief in most cases, women beneficiaries, and youths were present. Each interview lasted
for about two hours.
List of villaees
Grande-Comore
Village       Project     Population     Cost      Community         Comments
(ComF)    Participation
Koimbani    Rehabilitation of    2,150    5,745,950     473,000    Community share not
Washili      a women training                                      entirely paid
center
Maoueni      Road                900      16,866,715    3,197,900   (after evaluation)
Itsandra                                               instead of
2,383,290
Bangoi la    Construction of a    1,655   19,644,426    5,335,100
Hambou       school
Wella        Health center      4,000    16,617,536    3,233,850
Mitsamiouli
Bandamadji   Construction of a   715      18,043,485    4,233,000
Itsandra     school
Mvouni       Completion of      3,800     14,237,803    3,607,236
two classes
Moindzaza    Water supply        250      11,595,548    1,407,650
Djoumbe
Bangoi Kouni Water supply       2,848    52,527,147   12,921,500
Ndzaouze     School             1,536     8,782, 005    2,561,150
rehabilitation
Wella        Rehabilitation     1,941    21,566,321    6,373,750
Itsandra     and construction
Zivandani    Construction of a   978      9,186,624    2,696,580
school         I                                     I                    I
-27 -



Mramani       Rehabilitation of    3,188    27,730,050    7,314,447
a school
Tsembehou    Construction of a    8,096    23,218,646    4,480,300   Two projects were
market                                                financed in this
village
Hachinpenda   Construction of     916      11,188,251    3,196,800
rain water
drainage system
Chandra       Construction of a    3,511  34,139,207    5,644,450
school
Mahale        Rehabilitation of    1,531   8, 634,760    2,113,625
water supply
Barakani      Rehabilitation of    5,000   16,839,014   2,483,489+
a school                                   525,500
Koki          Construction of    3,066     18,266,256    3,069,820
water supply
Ouani         Rehabilitation of    7,134  36,097,231    6,491,200
health center
Patsy         Water supply        932      7,586,789    1,761,225
Moh6Ii
Village        Project     Population     Cost      Community       Comments
I _______________    _ _________ |(ComF)  participation
Wallah 2                          326      4,420,636    1,458,960
Hoani                             728      2,130,773     697,305
Mbatse                            767      4,112,106     909,325
Banar Salama                      634     13,107,981    3,822,300
-28 -



Results
1. Degree of satisfaction: 45% very satisfied, 42.5% satisfied and 12.5% less satisfied (of which
5% of total who have encountered serious problems). Relationships between the Social Fund
and villages are good even in cases where serious problems were encountered.
2. Procedures: 70% found them efficient, 15% relatively efficient, and 15% not efficient.
Communities had no difficulty accepting that they have no direct access to funds. Excessive
administrative delays were encountered by 15% of communities. All communities insist on
being fully informed on all operations concerning them.
3. Project preparation: 82% were fully satisfied with technical preparation of projects; 17.5%
were not satisfied. In the latter case technical problems were encountered during works,
particularly as concerns roads or bridges. 90% would like the Social Fund to provide training
to one or two people in the community on project preparation. Several communities had to
hire people to help them prepare projects. Committees were generally unhappy when they
had to deal with enterprises, as they felt that they were kept in the dark.
4. Needs: 96% found that the Social Fund met their priority needs; they indicated, however, that
they had a lot of priorities, but were asked to select only one. Only one community found
that the project, which was promoted by an NGO, was not their top priority.
5. Community participation: 425% found that community participation to the financing of
projects was about right, and 57% to high. In Moheli, all communities found that the
participation required was too high; this was the case for 80% of the communities in
Anjouan. Both islands are poorer than Grande Comore. 62.5% of communities found that
their contribution was much higher than the 20% required. Contribution in kind was the
preferred mode of participation.
6. Nature of projects: First priority includes school, road, and water supply; second priority,
sanitation; third priority, markets; fourth priority, health post; fifth priority, women training
center and library. All communities insisted on the need to include as top priority income
generating activities and credit. Most communities are highly concerned with unemployment
of youths. Communities would like to benefit from short-term professional training. 30% of
communities were in favor of electrification.
7. Benefits: all communities found that the projects have contributed to improving their living
conditions. Schools have contributed to an increase in schooling rates; children's motivation
has increased; success rates have improved. Water schemes have contributed to reducing
time spent and to improved health conditions. Roads have contributed to improved trade and
faster evacuation of sick people. Health posts have contributed to the reduction of infant
mortality.
8. Training: 77% found that training provided was to the point, but far too short.
9. Maintenance: 87% have taken steps to ensure sustainability of investment made, including
fees. Communities have proved highly inventive as concerns resource mobilization.
Committees have remained highly involved in project operation and maintenance.
-29 -



Conclusion
The Social Fund is an excellent mechanism for helping communities meet their priority needs. It
should be enlarged and continue to put emphasis on community participation and technical
training.
The Social Fund is considered the best project ever in the Comoros. Even villages, which have
not benefited from social fund support, praise its merits. The project is the first to take account of
people's needs. The project has contributed to restore dignity, because it helped communities
realize that they were able to actively participate in the development of their village with their
energy and willpower.
Problems were not encountered during implementation, however, but these problems were not
insurmountable. In most cases, solutions lie in better supervision of works, enhanced capacity in
the management of the fund, and increased transparency in accounting.
Communities' needs are so numerous that it seems impossible to meet all of them. Over the past
four years, each village has benefited on average from one project only. Only a happy few were
able to get a second one. In view of the extent of requirements, the volume of financing available
should be greatly expanded.
A most positive point has been the creation of village steering committees, in which all categories
of the population are represented, including the poorest segments, such as women and youth.
These committees have helped establish a consensus and are most involved in the operation and
maintenance of facilities.
- 30 -



Additional Annex 9. Borrower Contribution
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE                       Republique des Comores
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU
PROJET POPULATION ET RESSOURCES HUMAINES
(Credit IDA 2553-K1M)
- 31 -



A l'attention de:
Monsieur Hafez Ghanem,
Directeur des operations pour les Comores
Objet: Projet Population et Ressources Humaines (Cr. 2553-KM)
INTRODUCTION
Par ce rapport d'achevement, le Gouvernement de la Republique Fed6rale Islamique des Comores (RFIC)
voudrait mettre en exergue les points forts du Projet Population et Ressources Humaines (PPRH) ainsi que
les difficultes rencontrees au cours des six ans de sa mise en oeuvre, ce qui sous-entend que les objectifs du
projet n'ont pas tous et pleinement atteints.
Depuis son accession a la souverainete intemationale en 1975, la Republique Federale Islamique des
Comores (RFIC) s'est fixee comme objectif d'assurer un niveau acceptable de conditions de vie pour tous
ses habitants. Dans le domaine de la sante, la politique des vingt derni&es annees a dte axee sur les soins de
sante primaires, mettant l'accent sur la disponibilit6 a l'echelon le plus p&ipherique, d'un ensemble de
services de sante prioritaires, conformement a l'esprit de la Declaration d'Alma-Ata.
En mai 1991, soit deux ans avant l'identification du PPRH, la RFIC se dota d'un Plan Sanitaire qui
definissait les grandes orientations et les axes prioritaires de la politique Sanitaire dans la perspective de
l'an 2000. Il fut decide que les activites et les programmes prioritaires poursuivraient les memes objectifs
que par le passe, a savoir : la promotion par l'infornation, I'education et la communication, des
comportements favorables a la sante, la prestation des services de sante matemelle et infantile, y compris
les vaccinations, la surveillance pre- et perinatale et la planification familiale, la lutte contre les endemies et
les epidemies, en particulier le paludisme, les infections respiratoires aigues, les maladies diarrheiques, les
maladies sexuellement transmissibles et le SIDA ; et enfm l'approvisionnement et la fabrication locale de
medicaments essentiels, notamment par le developpement du reseau des pharmacies mises en place selon la
strategie de l'Initiative de BAMAKO. Afm de faciliter la mise en oeuvre de ce plan et parer aux graves
difficultes de fonctionnement qui caracterisaient le secteur public, le Gouvemement entreprit une profonde
reforme institutionnelle et statutaire de ce secteur. Un accent particulier fut mis sur la rationalisation du
systeme sante et sur la souplesse de fonctionnement et d'adaptation necessaire a une evolution rapide de la
demande et des techniques et i une adaptation aux realites socio-economiques nationales. En decembre
1992, un decret autorisant la gestion autonome des recettes des h6pitaux fut publie.
Le PPRH fut prepare en mars 1993. A cette epoque, malgre des succes significatifs et l'appui important
d'organismes d'assistance et de bailleurs de fonds de ia communaute intemationale, le pays etait encore
loin d'atteindre les objectifs qu'elle s'etait fixee. Ses taux de mortalite se trouvaient encore a des niveaux
inacceptables. La situation qui prevalait a cette epoque etait caracterisee par la precarite de l'etat de sante
des populations, notamment des femmes en age de procreer et des enfants. La pathologie etait dominee par
le paludisme, les infections respiratoires aigues, les maladies diarrheiques, les maladies sexuellement
transmissibles, ainsi que par d'autres maladies infectieuses et parasitaires.
Depuis plus de quinze ans, la RFIC, dont l'economie a connu une croissance relativement rapide au cours
de la decennie 1975-85, fait face a de severes difficultes socio-economiques. A la suite d'une politique de
gestion de gestion budgetaire lache, une mauvaise gestion des entreprises publiques et une demande
- 32 -



soutenue au niveau des importations, le pays fait face a une stagnation du taux de croissance economique
reel, une baisse des exportations, un deficit budgetaire (dons exclus) reste A un niveau equivalent A 24% du
PIB ; un deficit du compte courant de la balance de paiements (dons exclus) ddpassant 20% du P.I.B. ; une
accumulation d'arrieres de paiements interieurs et exterieurs ; une deterioration des termes d'echange
(faible competitivite exterieure et faible rentabilite des exportations).
C'est dans ce contexte socio-economique difficile, que, le 14 decembre 1993, la Banque mondiale accepta
d'octroyer aux autorites comoriennes un credit de developpement de 9,2 millions de DTS.
II.    OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
L'objectif global du credit dtait de renforcer le developpement des ressources humaines. Pour atteindre ce
but, le projet devait (i) assurer la mise en place d'un systhme sanitaire efficace et rentable et (ii)
promouvoir la participation des communautes locales au developpement social et economique. Ce credit
cadrait avec le programme decrit dans le document cadre de politique economique pour 1991-93 et 1994-96
et qui visait, entre autres choses, A accelerer la croissance reelle du PIB A 3,5% en 1993 et A 4,4% en 1996.
Bien plus, il prenait le dynamisme communautaire qui caracterise la RFIC.
III.   REALISATIONS DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
Le projet a realise plusieurs de ses objectifs. En effet, nous pouvons affimer que, globalement, le credit a
apporte une amelioration sensible au systbme sanitaire comorien et qu'il a augmente la volonte et la
capacite des communautes A participer aux efforts sectoriels de developpement, notamment en education et
en sante. Sur six formations sanitaires soit deux hopitaux et quatre centres de santd- qui avaient ete jugees
prioritaires, cinq ont ete rehabilitees dont une par lUnion Europeenne. Une formation sanitaire n'a pu 6tre
realisee pour des raisons politiques. Des Directions centrales du MSPP ont e  equipdes. La Direction de 1'
Education Sanitaire a beneficie d'un appui particulier du projet dans le but d'assurer l'adhesion et le
soutien social et de stimuler la demande des services de sante disponibles. L'education sanitaire individuelle
a e  combinee avec un effort de communication de masse elargie par des seminaires et des programmes
radiophoniques. Des modules de formation ont ete developpes afm d'aider les differentes categories du
personnel du MSP A s'acquitter efficacement de leurs taches. De nombreux agents du MSPP ont beneficie
de ces modules A l'occasion des sessions de formation qui ont e  organisees dans le pays par l'Ecole
Nationale de Sante (ENS) avec l'assistance d'un bureau d'experts internationaux. L'organisation de ces
formations dans le pays a permis non seulement d'augmenter le nombre des beneficiaires, mais aussi de
renforcer les capacites institutionnelles de l'ENS.
Dans le secteur de la sante, les rdsultats les plus interessants et les plus perennes ont toutefois porte sur les
reformes. Les services et les structures de soins et de prevention relevant du Ministere de la Sante (MSP)
ont et reorganises dans un dispositif pyramidal hierarchise qui part des postes de Sante vers les h6pitaux
regionaux et les unites centrales du MSP. La volonte d'etablir et de garantir l'efficacite de la gestion des
formations sanitaires s'est materialisde, entre autres choses, par l'adoption de textes legislatifs et
reglementaires appropries (au total deux lois et 8 decrets), par l'elaboration de meilleures regles et
procedures administratives et fmancieres pour le MSP et par la transformation de ces structures publiques
de soins en Etablissements Publics Hospitaliers dotes de la personnalite morale, conformes aux dispositions
des textes 1lgislatifs en vigueur. Les h6pitaux du gouvemement ont et6 dot6s d'un Conseil d'Administration
qui assure le contr6le direct du fonctionnement et de l'usage des ressources allouees et de recettes apportees
par la tarification officielle des actes effectues. Ces conseils sont composes de trois categories de membres,
A savoir: des representants des collectivites territoriales, des representants des personnels de 1'
etablissement et des personnalites exterieures reconnues pour leur competence et leur interet dans l'un des
- 33 -



domaines touchant au fonctionnement et aux activites des formations hospitalieres. Les representants
regionaux du MSP assistent aux reunions du Conseil d'Administration et y font entendre la voix et les
observations du ministere, en particulier en ce qui concemera le budget de fonctionnement, les equipements
et la politique de developpement sanitaire. Le Gouvernement a egalement dote ses Centres de Sante (CS),
ses centres medico-urbains (CMU) et ses centres medico-chirurgicaux (CMC) du statut d'Etablissements
prives sans but lucratifs avec des missions de service public. La gestion des Postes de Sante est confiee a
des associations villageoises de soutien, qui se voient par convention, autorisees a percevoir le montant
d'actes tarifes pour en couvrir les frais de fonctionnement. Toutes ces reformes ont permis de faire evoluer
plusieurs cadres des directions centrales et regionales du MSPP du travail d'executant a celui de
superviseur. Ce qui est tres interessant pour l'efficacite et l'efficience du systeme sanitaire national.
Grace au PPRH, la distribution des soins de sante par le secteur public s'appuie desormais sur une
responsabilit6 accrue des communautes locales et sur leur participation directe a la gestion des structures,
ainsi que sur un dispositif de fmancement qui peut combiner des ressources locales a des financements
assures par le budget de l'Etat ou par l'aide intemationale. Les el6ments critiques essentiels de cette
participation communautaire sont devenus la decentralisation, l'intensification des activites d'information,
d'education et de communication a tous les niveaux, la g6neralisation du principe du recouvrement des
cofits, la dotation de toutes les formations sanitaires d'une autonomie de gestion financiere et administrative
avec integration des representants des communautes dans les instances de deliberation et de decision. La
population est tres satisfaite d'etre revresentee dans les organes de gestion des formations sanitaires.
Le projet a pu ainsi accro:itre la disponibilite des services du planning familial et le contr6le du SIDA; il a
aussi ameliore la qualite des activites visant a accroitre la demande pour ces services. Le programme de
population et de prevention du SIDA a ete execute de facon satisfaisante et a permis une augmentation
sensible du taux d'utilisation des contraceptifs modernes. On estime ce taux a 8 % aujourd'hui, alors qu'il
n'etait que de 3% en 1990. Des campagnes d'information sur le fHV/SIDA ont permis de mieux
sensibiliser la population sur les dangers de la pandemie. Elles ont sans doute contribue a maintenir le taux
de prevalence de la seo-positivite au VIH a de faibles niveaux (de l'ordre de 1%). Lors des dernieres
epidemies de cholera, les communaut6s ont decouvert que le PPRH les a rendues capables de se prendre en
charge et de participer tres efficacement aux activites de contr6le des maladies.
Grace a sa composante <( FADC >>, le PPRH est consider6 par la population comorienne comme de loin le
meilleur projet. Lors de l'enqu8te sur les beneficiaires effectuee en 1997, les personnes interrogees ont
affirme que le projet s'est soucie reellement de leurs besoins. La composante FADC a tenu ses promesses,
parce que la grande majorit6 des villages de la RFIC ont pu beneficier d'au moins une r6alisation. Le
FADC a rendu leur dignite aux populations en leur permettant de realiser qu'avec l'energie, la volonte et
1'engagement ardent de toute la communaute, elles etaient capables de participer activement au
developpement de leur village. Des Comites de Pilotage (CP) ont ete crees pour formuler les besoins et
r6aliser les projets. Ces comites beneficient de l'adhesion de la population. La composition des CP a pris en
compte tous les mouvements associatifs qui existent au sein du village, qu'ils soient traditionnels ou
modemes, ce qui permet d'aborder les questions avec un large consensus. Les categories defavorisees
telles que les femmes et les jeunes y sont bien representees, ce qui a cree, dans de nombreux cas, une
symbiose entre les CP et les communautes.
La composante FADC a apport6 un appui financier et technique pour la realisation des projets
communautaires. Plusieurs infrastructures de base ont pu ainsi 8tre construites ou rehabilitees. Ces travaux
de genie civil ont porte, entre autres choses, sur des salles de classe au niveau des ecoles primaires, sur des
postes de sante, sur des ouvrages d'adduction d'eau, sur des routes d'accbs, sur des ponts, sur des marches
locaux et sur des etablissements de stockage des vivriers. Le choix des structures a rehabiliter etait toujours
- 34 -



determine de concert avec les communautes. La preference a ete accordee aux travaux de haute intensite de
main d'oeuvre qui etaientjuges techniquement et economiquement efficaces et susceptibles d'offrir de
grandes opportunites d'emploi. Le FADC a collabore avec le Ministere de la Sante pour assurer la
mobilisation et a la formation des communautes et, ainsi, faire participer ces dernieres a la rehabilitation et
A la gestion des formations sanitaires. La volonte d'augmenter la capacite des institutions locales a planifier
et a executer les sous-projets a conduit le FADC A mener plusieurs activites de formation. Ces formations
ont beneficie A environ 1800 macons, 180 menuisiers, 360 producteurs de meubles scolaires et 100 ateliers
de montage. Le FADC a aussi aide techniquement et financierement les pauvres A lancer de petites activites
viables et productives dans les secteurs ou une demande des produits etait identifiee. En plus, le projet a
apporte un appui A plusieurs adjudicataires du marche de fabrication de mobilier pour les projets de
rehabilitation finances par le FADC. Des pr8ts ont ete egalement etd accordes a des membres des
communautes locales. Afin d'apporter une reponse appropriee a la question des femmes, le projet a accordd
la priorite aux activites qui sont generalement accomplies par les femmes, qui font une discrimination des
avantages ou qui favorisent l'integration et la promotion de la femme. Dans cet esprit, le FADC a organise
un programme feminin d'alphabdtisation, de formation en planning familial, en nutrition, en sante
matemelle et infantile et en activites generatrices de revenus. Les femmes ont egalement beneficie d'un
encadrement special qui a aide plusieurs d'entre elles a formuler les projets, a organiser leur communaute et
A faire des propositions aussi bien au FADC qu'A d'autres bailleurs de fonds, y compris dans le cadre des
activites gendratrices de revenus.
Le projet a pu atteindre la plupart de ses objectifs grace A l'excellence des rapports de travail entre la
Banque et le Gouvernement. Des amenagements necessaires A la bonne realisation du projet ont pu etre
realises grace A une bonne comprehension des problemes et a une forte volonte d'aboutir A des solutions
acceptables. La continuite au niveau tant de l'equipe nationale que de celle de la Banque pendant toute
l'execution du projet de sante et fonds social a contribue aussi au succes de cc projet.
II convient d'indiquer que le succas du PPRH n'a pas ete total: certains objectifs juges importants n'ont
pas ete atteints. Plusieurs travaux ont ete interrompus pour l'une ou l'autre raison. Sur une formation
sanitaire de la Grande Comore, les activites de rehabilitation ont ete suspendues pendant une longue periode
de temps, a la suite d'un differend avec l'entreprise qui avait gagne le contrat de construction.
L'etablissement a ete detruit pour faire place A un nouveau centre. Ce centre n'a cependant pas ete
construit et les populations concernees ont manifeste leur grande deception. Le PPRH a fixd a 20% du cofut
des ouvrages la contribution des communautes aux fmancement de leur projet. Compte tenu des faibles
capacitees des communautes, il convient de fixer la participation communautaire A 10%.
Si dans l'ensemble, les communautes ont accepte le principe de cette contribution et ont mis tout en oeuvre
pour mobiliser les ressources ndcessaires, les communautes les plus pauvres ont eu du mal A remplir la
condition mise a l'engagement des travaux. C'est surtout le cas A Anjouan et Moheli. Les evenements
politiques aux Comores ces dernieres anndes ont causd quelques perturbations dans P'execution du projet.
La crise ouverte en 1997 par la declaration de secession d'Anjouan, n'a pas permis d'achever plusicurs
activites prevues pour cette ile. Les formations sanitaires qui ont ete rehabilitees n'ont pas ete equipees, car
la suspension des d6boursements des credits IDA aux Comores a freine le processus d'acquisition des
6quipements. Bien plus, les etablissements sanitaires n'ont pas obtenu les complements financiers de l'Etat,
dont ils ont besoin pour assurer 1'entretien et le renouvellement de leur patrimoine. Les centres de santd,
dont la gestion a ete confiee a des associations sans but lucratif creees a cet effet et agreees par le MSP, ne
disposent pas encore de moyens financiers et humains necessaires a leur fonctionnement. Les depenses
engagees par le Gouvernement pour participer au financement de ce dispositif n'ont pas ete maintenus au
niveau reel des engagements reconnus pour 1992, soit au moins 800 millions de francs comoriens. La
grande faiblesse institutionnelle qui a caracterise la Fonction Publique, le Trdsor et d'autres services
strategiques de l'Etat n'a pas permis a l'Etat de s'acquitter correctement de s'acquitter de sa responsabilite
- 35 -



dans la mise en oeuvre du projet, notamment en ce qui concerne la liberation des salaires du personnel des
formations sanitaires. L'instabilite politique chronique (coups d'Etat, intrusions des mercenaires dans le
pays, grande instabilite des equipes de direction des services publics) ont contribue enormement A limiter le
succes du PPRH. Tout au long de sa vie, le projet n'a pas reussi A mettre en place un mecanisme de suivi et
d'evaluation capable de lui permettre d'apprecier correctement l'iimpact des efforts investis dans le pays.
IV.    CONCLUSION
Le rapport d'achevement prepare par la Banque sur le Projet de Sante et de Fonds d'Action et de
Developpement Communautaire (FADC) correspond bien A la realite du projet sur le terrain. Les
commentaires de la Banque sont dans l'ensemble pertinents et pour l'essentiel, notre analyse est
concordante. Les points qui nous semblent les plus importants dans le but d'ameliorer les performances des
deux parties lors des futurs projets sont les suivants:
*   Une bonne preparation des projets est essentielle pour assurer l'addquation entre les credits alloues et le
programme et eviter les conflits et certains retards au moment de l'execution;
*   II serait utile de reduire les delais entre l'evaluation du projet, sa mise en vigueur et le debut
d'ex&ution. Ceci afm de limiter l'importance des changements;
*   L'amelioration des performances passe par la n6cessite d'avoir une structure 16gere de suivi et qui ne
sera pas trop dependante des influences;
*   L'autonomie de gestion est eminemment souhaitable: elle devrait donc etre maintenue;
a   II est n6cessaire de raccourcir les d6lais entre la demande de r6approvisionnement du compte sp6cial
et l'arrivee des fonds;
*   Il convient aussi d'ameliorer les communications entre la Banque et le gouvemement. Les
transmissions des dossiers, meme expedies par courrier express, ne sont ni assez rapides ni assez
fiables. Il serait utile que la Banque aide les projets A s'affilier aux services d'Internet;
*   La stabilit6 au niveau des 6quipes a e  un facteur determinant A la bonne marche du projet;
*   La Banque et le Gouvemement doivent s'efforcer de garder des relations de confiance mutuelle tout au
long de l'ex6cution du projet. Ceci a permis de trouver des solutions a toutes les difficultes rencontrees
et ce, dans des d6lais raisonnables et dans l'interet du projet;
:   La Banque devra veiller tout particulierement A l'appropriation des projets par le pays. Ceci prend
beaucoup de temps au depart, mais permet plus tard d'ex6cuter le projet sur une p6riode moins longue;
*   La Banque et le Gouvemement doivent s'efforcer d'int6grer, dans les projets, des mecanismes d'
incitation ad6quate des agents charg6s d'ex6cuter le programme;
*   11 convient de poursuivre le programme de rehabilitation de l'infrastructure sanitaire de fa9on A
am6liorer la disponibilite et la qualite des services de soins pour la population et, ainsi, minimiser les
evacuations sanitaires. Ce programme doit aussi int6grer I'H6pital El Marouf;
*   II faudrait poursuivre les actions de formation tant pour les cadres des ministeres que pour les membres
des communaut6s locales, car ces actions ont et6 benefiques. La formation doit etre continue et
6volutive, mais il faudra veiller A ce que le gain de ces formations soit r6el pour le pays. Des formations
orientees vers l'acquisition de metiers sont aussi fortement essentielles pour permettre aux femmes et
auxjeunes d'avoir des activit6s generatrices de revenus. II convient d'appuyer les communaut6s
souhaitent qu'un accent soit mis sur la formation de leurs membres et d'organiser des formations
techniques qui permettraient de mieux superviser la realisation de leurs projets et de prendre plus
d'initiatives en faveur du developpement de leurs villages;
* II faut veiller A ce que les activit6s de formation soient d6finies et planifi6es par une assistance
technique qui est bien int6gree dans les 6quipes nationales et qui connait, avec precision, les besoins
prioritaires et les motivations des candidats. Cette methodologie doit etre poursuivie dans les futurs
projets, car elle assure I'efficacit6 des activit6s de formation;
*   II faudrait realiser que les communaut6s aux Comores sont extremement demunies et que leurs besoins
- 36 -



sont considerables. Ces communautes risquent de se decourager si elles doivent attendre plusieurs
annees pour realiser leurs projets prioritaires. Pour cela, il faut accelerer la realisation de leurs projets
prioritaires.
*   II importe aussi d'oeuvrer dans le sens du renforcement des Comites de Pilotage (CP) en accordant a
leur fonctionnement toute l'attention necessaire. Car 1'engagement des beneficiaires en faveur de 1'
execution des activites et de la conservation des ouvrages fmances est un incontestable atout pour la
transparence de la gestion et la perennite des resultats des projets;
*   II convient d'adapter la part que les communautes doivent apporter au fmancement des projets aux
capacites des ces communautes. Les communautes les plus pauvres ont eu cependant du mal a remplir
la condition mise a l'engagement des travaux;
*   II convient enfm d'oeuvrer dans le sens de la mise en place d'un systeme efficace de monitoring et
d'evaluation pour assurer un bon suivi et une evaluation satisfaisante des projets.
Pour le Gouvernement,
Monsieur Ahmed OULEDI,
Coordinateur National
Projet Sante II
- 37 -






IBRD 26074
o                                          0
N             'C    N iN
00
;i'P                              X.9 i 6
Ic~~~~~~c
0
r~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ZAMBIA - 7 .K.(
I 1                                                           BI  J
J1994
JULY 1 99A



