Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2553 COM
Development Credit Agreement
(Population and Human Resources Project)
between
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 18, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2553 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 1994, between FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
November 9, 1993, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve an adjustment of the Borrower's health sector (hereinafter referred to as "the 
Program");
(B)
the Borrower has declared its commitment to the execution of the Program 
and, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(C)
the Borrower has established a Project Office within its Ministere de la 
Sante Publique et de la Population (MSPP) to coordinate the various activities 
included under Part A of the Project;
(D)
the Borrower has designated the Fonds d'Appui au Developpement 
Communautaire (FADC), an entity established and existing under the laws of the 
Borrower, to implement Part B of the
Page  2
Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AIDS" means acquired immune deficiency syndrome;
 
(b)
"Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement under Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"Procedures Manual" means the Procedures Manual referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a first letter of agreement 
between the Borrower and the
Association, dated April 16, 1993, as supplemented by a second letter of agreement 
between the Borrower and the Association, dated November 16, 1993;
(e)
"Special Account" means either or both of the accounts eferred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(f)
"sub-project" means a sub-project under Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR9,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall open and maintain in French Francs one special deposit 
account (hereinafter referred to as Special Account A) for the purposes of Part A of 
the Project, and another special deposit account (hereinafter referred to as Special 
Account B) for the purposes of Part B of the Project. These Special accounts shall be 
held and maintained in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, a Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  3
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 2004 and ending September 15, 2033. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2013 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
Page  4
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. For the purposes of Part B of the Project, FADC is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A of the Project through MSPP with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and 
financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Part of the 
Project; and 
 
(ii)
shall cause FADC to carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and 
financial practices, shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to 
enable FADC to carry out the Project, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of the Project by FADC. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part A of the Project and shall cause FADC to carry out Part B of the 
Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project shall be carried out by FADC.
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
conclude a financing agreement with FADC (hereinafter referred to as the Financing 
Agreement), whereby it shall agree with FADC to transfer an amount not exceeding the 
amount of the Credit allocated to Part B of the Project to FADC on a non-reimbursable 
basis and on such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the 
Association; including, but without being limited to, provisions to the following 
effect:
(i)
the amount so transferred to FADC shall be used exclusively to 
finance 
sub-projects and the operating costs of FADC;
 
(ii)
no sub-project shall be considered for approval under the Project 
except in 
accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set 
forth in a Procedures 
Manual adopted by FADC and approved by the 
Association;
(iii)
goods and services required under the Financing Agreement, or 
pursuant 
thereto, shall be procured in accordance with 
Page  5
procedures acceptable to the 
Association, and set forth in the 
Procedures Manual;
(iv)
every sub-project involving a total investment cost in excess of 
the 
equivalent of 350,000 French Francs shall be submitted to 
the Association for 
prior review;
 
(v)
except with the prior approval of the Association, no sub-project 
shall 
involve a total investment cost in excess of the equivalent 
of 450,000 French 
Francs;
 
(vi)
in respect of every sub-project to be financed under the Financing 
Agreement, 
or pursuant thereto, the contribution of the beneficiary 
thereof to the cost 
of the sub-project shall be (A) not less than 
20 percent, or (B) in 
exceptional cases, in relation to 
very poor and needy beneficiaries (as 
defined in the Procedures 
Manual), not less than 15 percent; and
(vii)
FADC undertakes to carry out all other Project-related obligations 
of the 
Borrower and FADC under this Agreement, or arising 
thereunder, in respect of 
Part B of the Project.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement and 
the Procedures Manual, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Financing Agreement or the Procedures
Manual, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall make adequate allocations in its annual budget 
to meet the  global needs of the health sector, including maintenance of the fiscal 
year 1992 level of expenditure on health (in 1992 prices), of which not less than 20 
percent shall be allocated to non-wage expenditures.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1994, issue a 
public expenditure program covering fiscal years 1995-1997, for review by the Borrower 
and the Association at every subsequent annual review and the mid-term review referred 
to in paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of Part A of the Project, of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out Part A of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for Special Account A for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
Page  6
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of Special Account A was made, 
all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FADC to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of FADC.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FADC to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements), and the records and 
accounts for Special Account B, audited 
on a semiannual basis, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than three months after the end of each semiannual 
period: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements for 
such audit period as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account for Part B of the Project were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall cause FADC to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the audit period in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account or 
payment out of Special Account B was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in each audit 
referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together 
Page  7
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
 
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FADC:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, technical and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and technical practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
FADC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Financing Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that FADC will be able to perform its obligations under the Financing 
Agreement;
(d)
the Presidential Ordinance establishing FADC (Ordonnance No. 93-001/PR of 
January 6, 1993) or the Presidential Decree defining its functions (Decree No. 
93-068/PR of April 13, 1993)
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, as the case may be, 
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of FADC to perform any of its 
obligations under the
Financing Agreement;
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FADC, or for the suspension of 
its operations or a significant part thereof.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Financing Agreement between the Borrower and FADC has been duly 
executed;
(b)
the Procedures Manual has been adopted by FADC and made operational;
 
(c)
the auditors referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement have 
been recruited;
(d)
a contract, which shall be acceptable to the Association, for the 
installation of a management information system for FADC has been signed;
(e)
the Borrower has recruited the private firms or non-governmental 
organizations required under the Project for the procurement of goods, for the 
preparation of architectural designs and bidding documents, for the supervision of 
civil works, and for the preparation and supervision of training programs, during the 
twelve-month period immediately following the Effective Date; and
(f)
the Borrower has opened, on behalf of FADC, a bank account in local 
currency, to be operated and maintained by FADC, in each of the three sub-regions 
covered under Part B of the Project, and has made an initial deposit of $5,000 
equivalent into each such account.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Financing Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FADC, and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and FADC in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Budget
B.P. 324
Moroni
Comoros
Telex:
245-MIEF-CAB KO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
Page  9
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
By /s/ Amine Ali Moumin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment,               1,200,000         100%
     vehicles, furniture
     and supplies
(2)  Civil works              1,130,000         100%
(3)  Consultants'               280,000         100%
     services
(4)  Training                   780,000         100%
(5)  Operating costs                            100%
     (a) under Part A of
         the Project             280,000
     (b) under Part B of
         the Project             780,000
(6)  Sub-projects              3,470,000        100%
Page  10
(7)  Refunding of                560,000        Amount due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                 720,000
                               _________
                               9,200,000
     TOTAL                     =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means the 
incremental costs incurred under the Project on account of (a) local contractual staff 
salaries, and travel and other
allowances, (b) maintenance of vehicles, fuel and equipment, and (c) office rent, 
supplies and utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments:
(a)
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or
 
(b)
under Category (2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless: 
(i) the unqualified technical health personnel of MSPP, as determined as of June 1, 
1993, has been reduced in number by not less than one hundred; and (ii) the health 
care facilities to be rehabilitated under Part A.4 of the Project have been (A) vested 
with financial and managerial autonomy in accordance with the requirements of the 
program, and (B) duly reorganized, and the staff thereof redeployed, as needed, to 
meet the requirements of the revised organizational structure applicable to such 
facilities.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, 
works and services, and
under sub-projects, not exceeding $10,000 equivalent, and under training programs and 
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen regional and community involvement 
in population and human resource development, by improving the delivery of basic level 
health services and stimulating complementary community development activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improving Health Services
 
1.
Strengthen and develop program planning, implementation and monitoring 
capabilities at the regional level, and stimulate community participation in health 
and population activities.
2.
Conduct a series of training activities to increase the productivity of regional 
health workers.
3.
Strengthen the capacity of MSPP to provide adequate technical and operational 
support to regional staff in the implementation of health activities.
4.
Partial rehabilitation of a number of health care facilities, including 
provision of waste disposal and sanitary water supply, equipment, technical assistance 
and training, to enable them to
carry out effectively their normative functions.
Page  11
5.
Based on the findings of three separate studies on family planning and AIDS 
control, design multi-media, well-targeted Information, Education and Communication 
(IEC) strategies and formulate other population and AIDS activities.
6.
Equip about 20 laboratories to improve their diagnostic capabilities, for 
purposes of fertility and AIDS control services, and train and supervise service 
providers and technicians.
7.
Supplement supplies of commodities so as to ensure regular supply required to 
carry out fertility and AIDS control activities, and monitor the impact of such 
activities.
Part B:
Establishment of FADC
 
Establish the FADC and, thereby, encourage community participation in 
sustainable economic development, support and develop the capacity of communities and 
NGOs, and complement sectoral development strategies, in the following areas:
*
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, including rural roads and 
bridges, primary 
schools, water supply and health care facilities,
 
*
income generating activities,
 
*
activities which promote the well-being and development of women, and
 
*
training of communities and groups in appropriate technologies, and in 
resource and 
project development and management.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
(a)
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(b)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when the contract is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(c)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use  the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where 
no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower 
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms 
agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more.
3.
Goods procured in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph 1 (a) 
above shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by third parties.
Page  12
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Civil works under Part A of the Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Contracts for goods and works required for purposes of sub-projects under Part B 
of the Project may be awarded:
(a)
in the case of contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, on the basis of 
competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association and specified in the Procedures Manual; and
(b)
in the case of contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or 
less per contract:
(i)
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, on the basis of 
comparison 
of price quotations obtained from at least three bidders 
eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Association and 
specified in the Procedures Manual; and
 
(ii)
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, on the basis 
of comparison 
of price quotations obtained following local 
advertisement on the radio, and 
through notices posted in the locality 
or in the offices of FADC, in 
accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association and specified in the 
Procedures Manual; 
provided, however, that the results of each such comparison 
of 
price quotations shall be made public.
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure. 
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  13
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Association review or approval 
requirements shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the 
employment of individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a 
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than October 31, 1994 
and, thereafter, not later than October 31 of each subsequent year, undertake a joint 
annual review of the Project (or, as the case may be, not later than October 31, 1996, 
a mid-term review), during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its 
obligations under this Agreement and, in particular:
(i)
the progress achieved by MSPP and FADC, respectively, during the 
current 
fiscal year, having regard to the performance 
indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association;
 
(ii)
the status of financial and procurement performance under the 
Project;
(iii)
the proposed budget and work program for the forthcoming fiscal 
year;
(iv)
the level of budgetary allocations for the health sector in the 
current fiscal 
year, and proposed allocations for the forthcoming 
fiscal year; and
(v)
in the case of the mid-term review, a review of the sustainability 
of FADC as 
an institution.
 
(b)
Not later than one month prior to each such review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and 
giving details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed at the said 
review.
(c)
Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently, in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the
implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
(d)
Without limitation to the preceding paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
submit to the Association, for its review and comments, quarterly reports prepared by 
the Project Office and FADC on the progress of Parts A and B, respectively, of the 
Project.
Page  14
2.
(a)
The Project Office and FADC shall at all times have available the 
requisite number of competent higher level and support staff, including, (i) in the 
case of the Project Office, a project director, an accountant and a procurement 
specialist, and (ii) in the case of FADC, a national executive director and three 
regional executive deputy directors.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that all higher levelpositions referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph shall be kept filled at all times by appropriate 
personnel, whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall have been 
communicated to the Association and found to be acceptable.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: 
 
(i)
in the case of Special Account A, Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), 
and (5) (a) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(ii)
in the case of Special Account B, Categories (5) (b) and (6) set 
forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in relation to each Special 
Account, an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
Page  15
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
