Report No. 669a-IVC
Appraisal of
Banque Ivoirienne de
Developpement Industriel (BIDI)
October 21, 1975                                                               FILE  COPY
Development Finance Companies
Africa Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
.~~~~~
Currency Unit - CFAF
CFAF 1  =   US  O.Q05
US $ 1  =   CFAF 200
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      African Development Bank
AFCOPA   Association Francaise de Cooperation, de Formation et de
Promotion Artisanale
BCEAO    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BDI      Bureau de D6veloppement Industriel
BICICI   Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et lIndustrie de
la C8te d'Ivoire
BIDI     Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
BNDA     Banque Nationale pour le Developpement de ltAgriculture
CAA      Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE     Gaisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
CCI      Credit de la C6te d'Ivoire
DEG      Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft
FAC      Fonds dtAide et de Cooperation
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
OPEI     Office National de Promotion de l'Entreprise Ivoirienne
SGBCI    Societe Gen6rale de Banque de la CMte dtIvoire
SONAFI   Societe Nationale de Financement
SSE      Small Scale Enterprise(s)
UNIDO    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UNDP     United Nations Development Programs
USAID    U. S. Agency for International Development
The CFAF Franc is tied to the French Franc in a ratio of 1 French Franc
to 50 CFAF Francs. The French Franc is currently floating.
BIDI Fiscal Year:    October 1 - September 30



APPRAISAL OF THE
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL "tBIDI"
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ..........  i - iii
SUMMARY .......... iv - v
I.   INTRODUCTION .................,.,.,                     1
II    ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT  .................                 1
Economic Growth and Structure .....      .............  1
The Industrial Sector  ......       ...................  2
Growth, Investment, Efficiency .                  2
Employment.                                        3
General Policies.                                 3
Investment Code ...............,....               3
Ivorianization  ......      .....................  4
Prospects  .......      .........................  5
The Tourism Sector  ......      ......................  6
Institutional Frame Work  .....       .................  6
III    FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT  ......       ...................  7
Financial Institutions  ......       ..................  7
Interest Rates and BCEAO's Rules  ....      ..........  8
Long-term Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange
Risk  ............    ............................    10
IV    BIDI's ROLE AND ORGANIZATION  .....      .............    12
Ownership, Board, Management  .....      .............    12
Departmental Organization and Staff  .... .......   12
Policies and Lending Conditions  ....      ...........   13
Volune and Characteristics of Operation       .......   13
Client Characteristics  ......       ..................   14
Promotion  ..........     ...........................    15
Project Work  ........      ..........................    15
Other Procedures  .......      .......................    16
THis report was prepared by Messrs. Philippe Nouvel and Djibril Sakho on
the basis of their mission to the Ivory Coast in November 1974.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
V.   BIDI FINANCIAL CONDITION  .....         ................  17
Portfolio Evaluation  ......        ...................  17
Resources  .........      ...........................    18
Financial Results  ......        ......................  18
Financial Position  ......        .....................  19
VI.   PROSPECTS  .........       ...........................    19
BIDI's Medium-Term Goals and Operational
Forecasts  .......       ........................   19
Resource Requirements  ......        ..................  20
Forecast Financial Results  .....        ..............  21
VII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECONIENDATIONS  ....        ..........    21
List of Annexes
1.   Ivory Coast - Origin of GDP at Current Prices
2.   Ivory Coast - Development in Priority Enterprises
3.   Ivory Coast - Summarized Balance Sheets of the Four
Commercial Banks
4.   BIDI - Board of Directors
5.   BIDI - Organization Chart
6.   BIDI - Statement of Policy
7.   BIDI - Loan Statistics
8.   BIDI - Problem Projects
9.   BIDI - Equity Investment Portfolio
10.   BIDI - Borrowings
11.   BIDI - Income Statements 1971-74
12.   BIDI - Financial Ratios
13.   BIDI - Balance Sheets 1971-74
14.   BIDI - Projected Operations 1974-79
15.   BIDI - Projected Income Statements 1974-79
16.   BIDI - Projected Balance Sheet 1974-79
17.   BIDI - Projected Uses and Resources 1974-79
18.   BIDI - Estimated Disbursement Schedule



Basic Data on
Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
(B I D I)
Year of Establishment:  1965
Ownership  (as of April 30, 1975)                    ( CFAF million)
Class A Shareholders                  CFAF            %
Ivorian Government                  221.55          21.1
3 CEAO                                59.85          5.7
French Public Institutions
(BF2E, CCCE)                     169.05          16.1
IFC                                  74.55           7.1
525.00         50.0
Class B Shareholders
Chase Manhattan Bank                  93.45          8.9
Lazard Brothers                      126.00         12.0
Other Foreign Financial
Institutions                     174.30          16.6
Local Commercial Banks                56.70          5.4
Private Ivorians                      74.55          7.1
525.00         50.0
TOTAL           1=1O591.O9       100= 0



- ii -
Resource Position
(as of September 30, 1974)
(OFAF million)
Resources                             Uses
Equity           1,369              Net fixed assets                   139
Provisions          153              Equity Investments, Bonds         524
Government loan  1,250               Non-discountable loans          7,284
Discountable loans              1,398
Other loans:
USAID             1,248
Kfw 1 to 3        1,564              Total uses                      9,3445
CAA              2,025
CCCE                750             Available for disbursements    14,619
AID aitente         550              Undisbursed Commnitments 1      2,599
DEG                 1450
CIDA             1,320              Available for new commitments  2,020
Chase Manhattan
Bank           1,000
Kfw 4  1/           900
BCEAO             1,385
Total resources 13,964
1/  Excluding discountable loans      623



- iii -
Historical Operational Data (CFAF million)
(FY ending September 30)
FY 71     FY 72      FY 73      FY_74
Approvals                             1,926      2,337     2,933      3,044
Disbursements                         1,397      1,764     1,977      3,144
Operating Results  (CFAF million)   FY 71        FY 72     FY 73      FY 74
Gross Income                            303        491        595716
Administrative expenses                  95        103        128       147
Financial Epenses                       115        130        181       342
Net Profit                              134        213        258       164
Net Profit/Average Net Worth (%)       16.2       22.4       22.5     12.5
Net Profit/Share Capital               19.1       30.4       36.9     15.6
Dividends  %                            5          6          7        7
Financial Position (CFAF million)
FY 71     FY 72      FY 73      FY 74
Total Assets                          5,141      6,089     7,127      9,763
Net Worth                               857      1,038      1,356     1,369
Total Debt/Equity                   4.4:11      4.9:1     4.7:1      6.0:1
Debt/Equity as per Bank
Definition                        2.8:1       3.2:1     3.3:1      4.4:1



- iv -
SUMMARY
i.        Sponsored jointly by the Ivorian Government, Lazard, and Chase,
the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel (BIDI) was established in
1965 as a majority private-owned company to provide long- and medium-term
funds to the industrial sector in Ivory Coast. At the request of the Govern-
ment, IFC took a 7.1% share in the Company and a seat on Board of Directors.
ii.       Up to now, BIDI has been able to mobilize sufficient resources to
cover its operations. A fast expanding business volume and good prospects
motivated BIDI to request Bank financing last year. With this first loan to
BIDI, Bank objectives would be (a) to fill a gap in the import financing
requirements of a competent intermediary for productive investment in the
Ivory Coast; (b) to strengthen BIDI's internal procedures in the area of
financial planning and control, and the economic aspects of project appraisal;
and (c) to assist the institution's efforts towards a more developmental role
in promoting sound investments.
iii.      Manufacturing growth in the Ivory Coast averaged 15% per annum
during 1960-73. This rapid development of industry was achieved under a
comprehensive policy based on free enterprise and recourse to foreign capital
and management under an incentive system that is being reviewed presently in
line with the Bank's recent recommendations. As a result, the industrial
sector is for the most part in the hands of foreigners; at the end of 1971,
it was estimated that 90% of manufacturing assets belonged to non-Ivorians.
Ivorianization of capital and management of industrial firms has become a
major concern in recent years and the Government has taken various steps in
that direction. BIDI has steadily developed its share of financing directed
to Ivorian-owned enterprises; 36% of its cumulative approved operations related
to Ivorian majority-owned enterprises at the end of FY75, as against about 10%
at the end of FY70.
iv.       During its first decade of activity, BIDI, which has been nearly
the only source of long-term finance for industry and tourism, has expanded
progressively its operations from an average CFAF 0.5 billion in FY65-67 to
an average CFAF 3 billion in FY73-74 and to about CFAF 4.4 billion in FY75.
BIDI has developed a dedicated and promising Ivorian professional staff.
It has also been successful in diversifying its sources of funds locally
and from abroad. Mlost of its borrowings have been obtained at concessionary
terms although with restrictions on the uses of funds. Low cost resources
combined with rapidly expanding operations resulted in favorable profitability
until FY74, when return on equity decreased from an average 22% to 13%, as
a consequence of poor financing planning and hurried recourse to borrowing at
unfavorable terms.
v.        BIDI's appraisal work has progressively improved in the recent years,
but needs further upgrading. Economic analysis of projects is almost non-
existent.  BIDI's management is aware of this weakness and it envisages to



v 
develop the economic capabilities of BIDI's staff, through training in the
field or abroad. Internal procedures regarding accounting, disbursement,
and follow-up are satisfactory, but financial planning is still weak and needs
much improvement.
vi.       BIDI's portfolio of CFAF 11 billion (July 1975), well diversified
among industrial sectors, reflects the orientation of the Ivorian economy.
Its involvement in the Tourism sector will progressively be reduced, as a
result of the Government's decision, concurred by the Bank, to have long-term
funds to hotels be channelled in the future through Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
(CCI), a majority public development bank mostly engaged in financing housing,
consumer goods, and small businesses. CCI is also the recipient of Bank funds
for a Tourism Development and a Small Scale Enterprise Projects that were
approved in May and August 1975.
vii.      Given development prospects of the Ivorian economy, BIDI's business
outlook appears promising. At the beginning of FY75 BIDI had CFAF 2 billion
available for new commitments. Commitments of non-discountable loans through
1977 should total CFAF 10.5 billion and given BIDI's projected cash generation
and use of revolving funds (CFAF 2.8 billion), its net resource gap over the
period amount of CFAF 5.7 billion. A Bank loan of $8 million would cover
about a third of BIDI's resource requirements. Ultimate recipients of the
Bank loan would be mainly medium-scale enterprises; small enterprises will
be assisted by the Bank through the above-mentioned loan to CCI.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of $8 million equivalent
to BIDI, with a flexible amortization schedule conforming substantially to the
aggregate amortization schedules of subprojects, none of which should exceed
15 years. BIDI would charge a minimum of 11%; in addition, subborrowers would
pay a service tax of 19.06% on interest and commissions, bringing the cost of
long-term funds provided by BIDI to 13% at least. The free limit would be
US$200,000 equivalent, with an aggregate of $2 million.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel (BIDI) was
established in 1965 jointly by the Ivorian government, Chase Manhattan Bank
and Lazard Brothers. At the request of the Government, IFC subscribed 7.1%
of the initial share capital of CFAF 750 million, and later took a seat on
the Board. Other foreign institutions (CCCE, DEC in particular) and the
local cormercial sands are also shareholders of BIDI (See Basic Data).
1.02      The company, which has been nearly the only domestic source of
long-term finance for industry and tourism in the Ivory Coast has progressively
expanded its operations through granting of long-term loans, investment in shares
and associating with commercial banks in medium-term discountable loans.
1.03      Up to the present time BIDI has been able to mobilize sufficient
domestic and foreign resources to cover its operations. However, an expanding
business volume and role coupled with increasing difficulty in raising long-
term resources motivated BIDI to request Bank financing. A mission visited
Ivory Coast at the end of 1974, to appraise (a) the proposed loan to BIDI
and (b) Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire "CCI', a public financial institution,
which is the channel for Bank funds for a Tourism Development Fund Project
and a Small Scale Enterprise Project, that were approved in May and August
1975 (see Report Nos. 666a IVC and 780a-IVC of April 28, and July 21, 1975).
This report reviews BIDI's performance, role and prospects and recommends a
Bank loan of $8 million for the financing of medium-scale productive enter-
prise.
II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Economic Growth and Structure
2.01      An analysis of the economic situation of the Ivory Coast is provided
in the report "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of the Ivory Coast"
dated April 11, 1974. A basic economic mission visited Ivory Coast in June-July
1975 to evaluate the country's long-term prospects in the context of the draft
1976-80 Development Plan.
2.02      With a population of 5.6 million, Ivory Coast had an annual GNP
per capita of about $340 in 1972. During its first decade of independence,
the country experienced remarkable economic growth with an average annual
increase of GNP in real terms of 7.5%. Factors contributing to rapid growth
were the Government's liberal and pragmatic economic policies, the avail-
ability of ample land and timber resources. the existence of a large pool of
labor including immigrants fromi Sahelian countries and, during the late
sixties, rising commodity export prices. This growth was accompanied by
substantial structural changes. In terms of value added, the service sector
and the manufacturing sector gained in importance (Annex 1).



-2-
2.03      The Government has, however, become increasingly concerned with
the possible effect of the rapid growth on income distribution among the
population and regional income distribution. Thus, to reduce inequalities,
recent salary raises have been graduated from 26 percent for the lowest to
5 percent for the higher paid workers. A number of agricultural projects
are designed to narrow the gap between urban and rural incomes and to reduce
regional income disparities.  In the same vein producer prices were substan-
tially increased in recent years.
2.04      hLowever, the next Plan (1976-S0) will need to focus more sharply
still on problems of urbanization, prospects of employment in both rural
and urban areas and income distribution. To assist the Government in
these directions, a special Bank employment mission, which included ILO
staff, visited the Ivory Coast. The mission's report, "Ivory Coast: Special
Report on Employment" (Report No. 279-IVC, July 1974), identified the major
employment problem as one of growing imbalances with manpower supply (includ-
ing immigration) shortages expected in rural areas while surpluses in urban
labor markets will develop in the absence of corrective action. The report
placed particular stress on the informal or traditional sector which has
the greatest labor absorption potential.
2.05      Prospects for sustained economic growth remain good: diversifica-
tion of agriculture is making good progress and industrial growth, which so
far has centered around enterprises of limited size to serve the still small
but growing domestic market, is expected to rely to a greater extent on
exports of more highly processed agricultural products. An average growth
rate of GDP of 6% in real terms is considered achievable during the balance
of the seventies.
The Industrial Sector
2.06      Growth, Investment, Efficiency.  The industrial sector is analyzed
in depth in "Current Status and Prospects of the Industrial Sector in the
Ivory Coast" (Report No. 553-IVC dated February 4, 1975). Manufacturing
output grew by about 15% per annum during 1960-73 and its share in GDP in
the Ivory Coast rose from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1972. This
rapid growth was based on the parallel development of export-oriented agro-
industries and import-based industries, which have expanded at the same
average rate over the period 1960-72. Industry in the Ivory Coast started
from a very small base in 1960 and is still at an infant stage: manufacturing
output was around CFAF 150 billion in 1972, and the sector's estimated assets
were CFAF 74 bill-ion, at the end of 1972. In a number of subsectors capacity
is under-utilized as it is not always possible to adapt industrial equipment
to the dimensions of a limited market. During 1966-72, employment growth in
the manufacturing sector was only about 70% of the growth in value added at
constant factor prices, reflecting gains in labor productivity. which is
not considered low by Africari standards. Based on an analysis of 126 enter-
prises, Ivorian industry shows an acceptable average profitability with an
average post-tax return on equity of 12.2%.



- 3 -
2.07      Employment.  Manufacturing employed about 38,000 persons or only
1.5% of the total labor force in 1972. However, employment in the manufac-
turing sector represented 13% of all salaried employment in the modern sector
of the economy. The growth rate in industrial employment was 10.6% per year
during the period 1966-72.
2.03      General Policies.  The Ivory Coast has followed an industrial policy
based on encouragement of the private sector, xwith public sector industrial
investment relatively minor and confined to a few branches. Political stability,
active policies of industrial promotion and various incentives have inspired
the confidence of investors. The monetary framework allowing freedom of for-
eign exchange transfers, and the existence of relatively well developed infra-
structure are other factors that explain the rapid industrial development
of the Ivory Coast. However, policy and criteria for public capital partici-
pation in industry have not always been clear and need to be more carefully
assessed. Further steps are also needed to develop a skilled Ivorian labor
force at all levels and to foster the emergence of Ivorian entrepreneurs.
The steps being taken to improve the situation are discussed below (paras.
2.13-2.15).
2.09      Investment Code.  The major instrument of the Government's indus-
trial policy is the Investment Code issued in 1960 which offers incentives
consisting of exemptions from duties on imports, taxes and other levies for a
period of up to ten years. Enterprises approved under the Investment Code,
called "priority enterprises", accounted for about two-thirds of industrial
value added in 1971. A special Investment Code for tourism projects was
issued in 1973. New large projects in industry and tourism that are
considered of particular developmental importance may get special incentives
tailored to each particular case under "establishment conventions" which can
guarantee tax stability for periods of up to 25 years.
2.10      Priority firms are subject to direct supervision by the Directorate
of Industrial Development (DDI) in the Ministry of Planning which prepares
annual reports on the performance of each priority firm, including emphasis
on the implementation of investment programs, production targets and employ-
ment of Ivorian personnel.
2.11      Over the past few years, the Investment Code has been subject to
various criticisns; in particular, the Bank Industrial mission in 1973 found
that: (i) the Code has been applied too liberally by giving the full ten-year
duty exemption on imported inputs; (ii) Government supervision of priority
firms has been inadequate; (iii) duty-free imports of raw materials granted
to priority firms discourage local production or partial processing of inter-
mediate goods; (iv) although not discriminating against small enterprises,
per se, the Investment Code mainly benefited large firms- and (v) the Invest-
ment Code tended to favor the installation of new equipment over fuller use
of existing capacity.



2.12      A new Investment Code under preparation envisages a number of
improvements. Firstly, reflecting recent practice, it will make incentives
and the period for which they are given more discretionary, after careful
examination of the merits of each project. Secondly, the new Code will
reflect reconsideration of the policy of exemption or reduction in import
duties on capital equipment and intermediate materials. Thirdly, the useful-
ness of introducing export subsidies on all industrial exports will be
reconsidered. One problem is the need to upgrade the quality of project
review by Government decision-makers. As a first step to directly deal
with this, the Bank is planning to sponsor a two-week seminar on economic
evaluation of projects to be held in Abidjan in 1976 with participants from
the Ministry of Planning and the Ivorian development banks. Follow-up
training will, no doubt also be required.
2.13      Ivorianization.  Indigenous enterprises participate only modestly in
non-agricultural sectors of the economy. In the secondary sector, the growth
of industry has come largely as a result of investments by foreign corporations
and most plants still require expatriate management and senior staff. Only
limited amounts of domestic savings have been channelled into industry and
external capital has, therefore, financed the bulk of its development. At
the end of 1971, it was estimated that 90% of assets in the modern manufacturing
sector were controlled by non-Ivorians. Moreover, since the education
system produces few technicians and trained workers, substantial expatriate
labor was employed in the secondary sector. Non-African employment was
largely predominant in the higher paid skilled and managerial positions in
the private sector.
2.14      In 1971, only 25% of the managerial and professional technical staff
of enterprises were Ivorians or other Africans; out of the 2,573 management
positions in the private and semi-public sector, Ivorians held 363, other
Africans 234 and non-Africans 1,976. Virtually all management positions
requiring upper secondary level education were held by non-Africans.  While
there has been some progress in Ivorianization since then, the basic pattern
has not changed substantially.



- 5 -
Table 1
Structure of Salaried Employment in the Private Section in 1971 (%)
Non-Ivorian
Ivorians      Africans       Non-Africans   Total
Management                           .3              .2              1.5         2.0
Professional Tech'nical Personnel   .5               .2              2.1         2.8
Foremen                             2.1              .6              1.7         4.4
Other Supervisory Personnel         4.8             1.2              1.1         7.1
Subordinate Personnel               5.4             3.7                -         9.1
Skilled workers                     8.0             3.0               .1        11.1
Semi-skilled workers               13.4             7.9                -        21.3
Unskilled workers and
apprentices                      13.4            28.8                -        42.2
47.9            45.6              6.5      100.0
2.15      While the Government will continue to encourage foreign investment,
"Ivorianization" of the economy is also an important goal. Ivorianization
aims at increasing participation of Ivorians in economic and social life by
(a) increasing Ivorian ownership in existing enterprises, (b) increasing
Ivorian participation in managerial positions and (c) promoting Ivorian-owned
enterprises. The Economic Development Plan (1971-75) declares as one of its
fundamental objectives the increased participation of Ivorians in economic
activities. Although the Government has not specified quantitative targets
for its promotion program of Ivorian enterprises, it has: (i) set up a
comprehensive scheme to promote small-scale Ivorian enterprises and facil-
itate their access to credit; (ii) participated in banks, industrial
and commercial enterprises through SONAFI, a public financial institution
(para. 4.12); (iii) required enterprises benefitting from the Investment
Code to present plans for Ivorianization of personnel; (iv) planned the
establishment of a stock exchange which would help develop Ivorian share-
holdings in private enterprises; and (v) reserved new investments in
certain sectors to Ivorians. It is also planned that in the future local
contractors will be given preference for public procurement and construction.
However, the capital and managerial needs of large industrial companies will
probably continue to be met substantially by foreign enterprise in the next
few years.
2.16      Prospects.  Value added in industry is projected to grow at an annual
rate of nearly 13% during 1974-80.  If the two large paper pulp and iron-ore
projects would be in production by 1980, the industrial sector will develop at
the faster rate of 14.4% during this period. Since industry is forecast to grow
more rapidly than tne total economy, its proportion in GDP is projected to



- 6 -
increase from 13%o (1972) to 15% in 1975, and to about 19% in 1980.  Processing
of local agricultural and forestry raw materials for export will make a larger
contribution than before to industrial growth. As a result, it is projected
that by 1980 industrial exports would represent more than 40% of total exports,
as against 24% in 1972.
The Tourism Sector
2.i7      TourLst arrivals increased at a rate of about 14% between 1970 and
1974.  Receipts from travellers to the Ivory Coast in 1973 generated some
US$19.5 million in gross foreign exchange earnings, representing about 1.5%
of total foreign exchange receipts from goods and services. About 3,100
persons are employed directly by the tourism industry and possibly an equal
number is employed in related industries.
2.18      The total hotel capacity in Ivory Coast has doubled since 1970 to
about 3,800 rooms by end 1974. About two thirds of these rooms are of inter-
national standard, of which about 500 on the beach near the capital. The
Government has provided about 60% of the financing in the hotel sector up to
1973 but owns only 44% of hotel rooms. Average occupancy of hotels in Abidjan
has been quite high.
2.19      The economy is expected to support a steady growth of the business-
related hotel demand in Abidjan plus some secondary markets. It is reasonable
to predict a demand for about 1200 rooms in Abidjan between 1975 and 1980.
Annual foreign visitor arrivals would be about 160,000 by 1980 of which two
thirds would be business travellers. A Bank loan to assist in the development
of the hote:L industry was signed in June 1975.
Institutional Framework
2.20      Government institutions directly affecting industry include Depart-
ments in the Ministries of Planning and Finance, which coordinate through
interministerial committees 1/. lWithin the Ministry of Planning, the
Directorate of Industrial Development (DDI) is responsible for appraising
projects submitted by investors applying for Investment Code advantages,
and for submitting annual reports on all priority firms. The Department of
Development Studies (DED) is concerned with Industry as part of the prepara-
tion of the five-year plan, and the Department of Regional Planning (DATAR)
deals with regional aspects of industry. Within the Ministry of Economy
and Finance, the most important department for industrial policy is the
General Dircutorate of Economic Affairs and External Economic Relations
(DO-AEREE) which is responsible for import licensing,price control, and trade
negotiations.
1/   Financial inszitutions are described in Part III.



-7-
2.21      Industrial promotion is done by "The Office of Industrial Develop-
ment" (BDI) which serves as a link between potential foreign investors and
the government; it has three agencies in Europe. The Office National de
Promotion de l'Entreprise Ivoirienne (OPEI) was established in 1968 to provide
technical and managerial assistance to mostly small Ivorian businesses. It
has recently been reorganized (following Bank assistance), and its activities
are being focussed in selected industrial branches. BDI set up in 1972 an
organization, (BISTI), 1/ to match the subcontracting capabilities of Ivorians
with foreign demands, mainly from Europe; its impact has been modest so far.
Finally, the Ivorian Center for Foreign Trade (CICE) has a general responsibility
for export promotion, e.g., by participation in foreign affairs. UNIDO is
assisting BDI, OPEI and CICE.
III. FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
Financial Institutions
3.01      The Ivory Coast is a member of the Western Africa Monetary Union
established in 1962 and composed of six countries with a common central
bank, the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO). Banking
and credit institutions in the Ivory Coast include four commercial banks
(BICI, SGBCI, SIB, BIAO), 2/ three development banks (BIDI, CCI, BNDA) and
two leasing institutions. In addition, there is a public institution, Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) which manages public debt, holds and manages
public deposits and mobilizes local resources through issuing of tax-free
bonds. Another public institution, Societe Nationale de Financement (SONAFI)
was set up in 1962 to take direct participation in undertakings of national
interest; it became involved in the small-scale Ivorian enterprise sector in
1972 when the Government established within SONAFL a Participation Fund to
make quasi-equity available to small Ivorian enterprises.  The Government
also established in 1968 a Guarantee Fund to provide guarantees to credits
granted to small Ivorian enterprises. Finally, a stock exchange is expected
to be established soon.
3.02      The financial sector has been progressively Ivorianized; the
Government has a 21.1% share in BIDI, controls 75%, of CCI and of BNDA, and
has participations of 35% or more in three of the commercial banks (still
1/   Bourse Ivoirienne de Sous-Traitance Internationale.
2/   BICICI:  Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l'Industrie en C6te d'Ivoire;
SGBCI:   Socift6 Generale de Banque en C6te d'Ivoire;
SIB:     Societe ivoirienne de Banque;
BIAO:    Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale;
BIDI:    Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel; CCI: Credit de la Cote
d'Ivoire; BNDA: Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole.



-8-.
dominated by French interests associated with American, German and Italian
banks). All those banks have an Ivorian as General Manager,; Ivorianiza-
tion of their professional staff is increasing progressively.
3.03      The commercial banks provide short- and medium-term 1/ financing
to all sectors of the economy; they have branches in 37 towns all over the
country, in addition to those in Abidjan and its suburbs. SGBCI is the
largest, with 342O of the commercial banks' total assets of CFAF 113 billion,
as OL October 1974 (see Annex 3), and a total staff of 450.
3.04      Medium- and long-term lending expanding sharply in the recent years;
most of industrial medium-term loans are provided by the commercial banks,
individually or in pool. BIDI plays a major role in long-term lending to
industry, whereas CCI is mostly engaged in loans to housing, vehicles and
small equipment for consumers, and financing of craftsmen and small enterprises.
BNDA specializes in agricultural and agribusiness lending. BIDI and CCI's
long-term outstanding loans represent about 70% of total long-term loans
recorded at BCEAO.
3.05      A few years ago, BIDI engaged itself in tourism long-term financing,
but did not develop a strong appraisal capability in that sector. Given CCI's
public character, its experience with housing and real estate, and also BIDI's
reluctance to further engage itself in this sector, the Bank endorsed the
Government proposal that Bank assistance to hotel financing be processed
through CCI. Lending to small enterprises (loans below CFAF 25 million each)
has increased sharply during recent years, from about CFAF 300 million
approved in 1970 to over CFAF 1 billion approved in 1973. The bulk of these
loans relates to trade or service activities. Given CCI's involvement in
the small-scale enterprise sector and the forecast development of a close
cooperation between CCI and the technical assistance agency (OPEI), it was
considered appropriate to use CCI as a channel for Bank funds for small-scale
enterprises under the Bank loan to that sector. Long-term lending to medium
and large-scale industrial enterprises will remain BIDI's major responsibility:
it may also continue to participate in tourism financing through participating
in medium-term discountable loans extended by the banking system.
Interest rates and BCEAO's rules
3.06      Interest rates and credit distribution are controlled by BCEAO
through the discount system. BCEAO is currently in the process of implementing
a series of fundamental reforms, aiming at (i) tying the Monetary Union's
interest rate policy more closely to the money markets in Europe, both to
develop mobilization of local savings and to reduce the incentive for foreign
enterprises to obtain cheap local finance; (ii) linking credit allocation to
sectoral needs; and (iii) encouraging access to credit by national enterprises.
in addition a money market is being created. Rates of interest charged by
/   Medium-term loans:  over two years and up to seven years (up to five
years until 1972); as from January 1976, the maximum duration of medium-
term Loans will be 10 years.



- 9 -
banks are determined by adding to the discount rate spreads which vary according
to the nature and term of credit extended. Until recently, BCEAO had a single
discount rate, which was raised from 3.5% to 5.5% in early 1973. As from
July 1975, two discount rates exist. The priority discount rate (5.5%)
applies to agricultural short-term financing, loans to national SSEs (defined
as SSEs with outstanding borrowings below CFAF 20 million), and loans to
individuals for housing. The "normal" discount rate (8%) applies to other
operations. As a result, interest rates will vary between a minimum of
6.50% and a maximum of 13%. Interest rates for term-deposits are determined
by adding to a basic rate of 3.25% minimum spreads, depending upon the amount
and the term of the deposit. As from January 1976, the control of volume
of credit by BCEA0 will be changed from a system based on discount ceilings
for banks and individual enterprises to a system based on allocating to each
country a ceiling for each country's recourse to BCEAO's resources, and within
this ceiling, allocating specific ceilings for the Government and public
institutions, the Treasury, and the financial institutions; in addition,
BCEAO's prior approval of all lending in excess of CFAF 100 million will be
required; previously, there have been discount ceilings for banks and in-
dividual enterprises. In addition, BCEAO may determine for each commercial
bank's lending minimum sectoral ratios, and minimum ratios for credits to be
extended to enterprises run by nationals.
3.07      Regarding medium-term discountable loans, which are generally
used to finance local costs and cover the import component of an investment
when external long-term loans and supplier's credits are not available,
they cannot represent more than 50% of the project cost (general rule) or
65% for industrial enterprises, or 90% for loans to national small-scale
enterprises. Loans for purchase of used equipment or for purchase of
enterprises cannot be discounted.
3.08      BCEAO influences indirectly the allocation of long-term loans
through its directorship in development banks' boards and the medium- and
long-term commitment ceilings for each bank; for development banks, these
ceilings are defined by BCEAO as 150% of the sum of the bank's equity
(minus fixed assets and equity investments), and its long- and medium-
term resources. Medium-term rediscountable loans guaranted by the Government
are not included in the ceiling.
3.09      Although this system has not discriminated against small- and
medium-scale enterprise, it has been in fact difficult for small enterprises
to utilize discount sources: (i) small entrepreneurs are not able to submit
a project proposal dossier, and it is a costly burden for the banks to
prepare one, in view of the relatively small amounts involved; (ii) they are
very often incapable either of showing financial statements or of justifying
the minimum net working capital required; (iii) a minimum proportion of self-
financing of 20% requested until now may have barred small entrepreneurs
who also suffered difficulties in financing the difference between the project
cost and the maximum proportion rediscountable at BCEAO; (iv) regarding



- 10 -
short-term loans, commercial banks have usually reached their rediscount ceiling
in recent years and have even been obliged to borrow abroad funds for short
periods at interest rates as high as 12-13%. This proved detrimental to
small enterprises since the banks preferred to use their discount possibilities
for large firms. All these factors explain that, although the volume of
finance provided by the financial institutions to small Ivorian enterprises
expanded fast 'r recent years, most of it was non-redicountable and thus
carried the hI,gher interest rates.  The reform being implemented by BCEAO
should alleviate most of these difficulties.
3.10      A 19.05% tax (Taxe de Prestation de Services - TPS) is charged on
interest. Banks collect this tax for the Government. However, CCI and BNDA
loans are exempted from that tax; BIDI's loans were exempted until February
1975. According to the recent Tax Code, enterprises may theoretically deduct
the amount of this tax from other taxes due on their operations; in practice,
this is not possible for a variety of reasons:  very few enterprises are aware
of this possibility; also, enterprises who do not pay the value added taxes
because they are exempt due to their export activity or because they are
exempted by the Investment Code cannot claim this deduction; in other cases,
the tax administration has even refused to process it, or long delays have
been encountered in the processing. Given the complexity of the tax system,
and the difficulty of assessing the impact of a change in the TPS system on
Government revenues, it was suggested to the Government that the TPS situation
be studies with a view to clarify and harmonize the tax treatment as between
institutions; there is, however, no indication that the system will be modified
in the near future.
Long-term Interest Rates and Foreign exchange Risk
3.11      BIDI's long-term lending rates have progressively been raised and
now most of its loans are made at 11% (before TPS tax) as recommended by the
Bank during the project preparation. CCI's rates by comparison have ranged
from 6.75% - 11% for housing, and 7% - 9% for the few long-term industrial
loans it has made from CAA or CCCE funds. Until now, industrial private
enterprises in francophone Western Africa countries have been accustomed to
borrow in CFAF Francs which are tied to the French franc, or in some cases,
in a specific foreign currency in the event of using suppliers credits. The
Ivorian Government had assumed the foreign exchange risk on all Ivorian
development banks' borrowings in currencies other than CFAF francs and French
francs, until now. However, during negotiations for the SSE Project and the
BIDI Project, the Government has expressed the view that private borrowers of
foreig-a funds should in the future, and whenever feasible, bear the total
cost of the capital channelled into the economy. As a consequence: (i)
subborrowers under the Small Scale Enterprise Project are expected to take
the foreign exchange risk on Bank funds; however, if this proves a serious
handicap for the numerous SSE subborrowers, the Government may decide to
assume the risk possibly with an appropriate fee as compensation; and (ii)
in the case of BTDI, subborrowers are expected to assume the full foreign



- 11 -
exchange risk. As for the Bank's Tourism Development Project, which was
negotiated before the Government modified its general policy regarding the
foreign exchange risk, subborrowers will pay a fee of 1% to the Government
for its assumption of the risk. For this Tourism Development Project, the
Government (and not CCI) was the direct borrower of Bank funds, and the terms
of sub-loans of hotel promoters will be much longer than for industrial
enterprises under the BIDI Project; this explains the different treatment of
the foreign exchange risk.
3.12      Hotel promoters under the Tourism Development Project will pay to
CCI an interest rate of 10.5%, plus the 1% fee to the Government for the
foreign exchange risk coverage. Small scale enterprises will pay 12% to
CCI: a 3.5% spread was considered the minimum necessary to cover CCI's
administrative expenses and the minimum required risk premium to cover an
assumed 5% fiscal default rate, and include a small profit element. Concern-
ing the proposed loan to BIDI, sub-borrowers will pay an 11% interest rate---
leaving a 2.5% spread to BIDI on Bank funds, plus the TPS tax; as a result,
the final cost of long-term funds from the proposed Bank loan for industrial
enterprises other than SSEs will be about 13.1%. During negotiations, BIDI
agreed that its long-term lending rate will be 11% at least, and that the final
cost of its long-term funds will not decrease below 13%. The table below
compares the on-lending terms of Bank funds channelled to industrial and tourism
enterprises in the Ivory Coast.
Tourism
Development            SSE             BIDI
Project            Project         Project
Borrowers                    Government-CCI          CCI             BIDI
Cost of Bank funds                8.5%               8.5%            8.5%
Spread to the intermediary        2%                 3.5%            2.5%
Foreign exchange risk             1%            assumed by the subborrower
TPS tax                            -                  -              2.1%
Final cost to the subborrowers 11.5%                12%             13.1%
The 13% minimum cost of Bank funds to medium-scale industrial subborrower is
projected to result in an adequate real positive cost of capital.



- 12 -
IV. BIDI's ROLE AND ORGANIZATION
4.01      BIDI's broad objectives according to its Statutes and Statements
of Objectives and Management Policy are to encourage the development of pri-
vate industrial enterprises in the Ivory Coast, to promote the participation
of foreign and comastic caDital in the industrial development of the country,
and to he lp develop a capital market.
Ownership, Board, Management
4.02      Ownership.  There has been no change in BIDI's ownership since its
creation in 1965. BIDI's main shareholders are: the Government (21.1%),
Lazard Bros. (12%) and Chase Manhattan Bank (8.9%); CCCE (10.7%) and IFC
(7.1%). Other shareholders include BCEAO (5.7%), 3 local commercial banks
(1.8% each) and miscellaneous foreign institutions (22%) and private Ivorians
(7.1%). In April 1974, BIDI's shareholders declared a 50% stock dividend
which raised the paid-in share capital from the initial CFAF 700 million to
CFAF 1,050 million.
4.03      Board of Directors and Executive Committee.  Annex 4 shows the
composition of BIDI's Board and Executive Committee. BIDI's Board of
Directors normally meets only twice a year to discuss the company's annual
report, financial statements and proposals for distribution of profits
and to convene the Annual General Meeting. All other business is conducted
by BIDI's Executive Committee (EXCOM). The delegation of powers was renewed
in 1970 for a second period of five years and renewed again recently for
another five-year period. BIDI's Executive Committee meets as often as
required, usually once every three months. It considers, and decides on
questions of policy arising between Board meetings and decides on BIDI's
lending and investment proposals. Discussions at the EXCOM level are thorough
and decisions on loan applications are based on sound financial principles.
The representatives of Lazard, Chase, and CCE, whose attendance has been
generally good, contribute substantially to the work of the EXCOM.
4.04      Management.  Mr. Alphonse Diby has been General Manager since
March 1970, after five years as Deputy General Manager. Mr. Diby, who
joined BIDI in 1965, has proven to be a competent leader for the com-
pany. With the help of BIDI's foreign partners BIDI has become a strong
insiitution, respected by the business community and free from political
or narrow interest group influence in decision making.  Mr. Diby's Deputy,
since mid-1974, is Mr. Bamba who has been a staff member since 1967 and
who succeeded a CIDA seconded Canadian as Deputy General Manager. Mr. Bamba
is young (34), but has a good knowledge of BIDI's operations and clientele,
and is expected to perform his functions satisfactorily.
Departmental Organization and Staff
4.05      BIDI's organization chart is depicted in Annex 5.  As of November
1974, BIDI's staff totalled 37, of which 18 are professional, including two



- 13 -
Germans serving in the Internal Control and Investment Departments. BIDI has
long relied on foreign technical assistance from various sources (CCCE, CIDA,
Chase, German aid), but has now developed a young group of Ivorian profes-
sional staff which is dedicated and promising.
4.06      The Investment Department is the core of BIDI.  It comprises seven
professionals: five Droject officers in charge of both appraisal and follow-up
of investments, an engineer and a lawyer. The project officers are mostly
university graduates who were trained by CCCE or by Chase Manhattan Bank
after a six-month to one year probationary period with BIDI. BIDI's program
for training and recrument of additional staff appears satisfactory, although
more attention should be paid to developing economic appraisal capabilities
through training (see para 4.17).
4.07      The Finance and Administrative Departments are staffed with competent
Ivorians. The Finance Department is in charge of the company's accounts,
loan disbursements and collection. It also has responsibility, under guidance
from general managment, for financial planning - a function performed poorly
until now (see para 4.19). The Administrative Department is responsible for
personnel management and administrative expenses.
4.08      The Internal Control.  This Department is directly attached to the
General Manager and controls the execution of the budget and clears loan
disbursements. It performs these functions in a satisfactory manner.
4.09      Department of Research and Studies.  This Department is staffed
with 2 young Ivorian professionals formerly in the Investment Department.
They have responsibility for market studies and as such are expected to
assist the investment officers in the appraisal of projects. It is projected
that this Department will also have responsibility for project promotion
(see para 4.16).
Policies and Lending Conditions
4.10      BIDI's operations are directed by its Statement of Objectives and
Management Policy (Annex 6). This Policy Statement conforms in most respects
to policy statements adopted by other development finance companies. It in-
cludes the following guidelines. BIDI's maximum single commitments are
normally limited to 15% of BIDI's equity plus the Government subordinated
loan. BIDI's equity participation shall not normally exceed 30% of the share
capital of the enterprise in which it invests. The total equity portfolio is
limited to BIDI's equity. BIDI shall not assume the foreign exchange risk
on its borrowings.
Vo'lume and Characteristics of Operation
4.11      A summary of BIDI's operations appears in Annex 7.  Since its
creation in 1965, BIDI has made loans for a total of CFAF 20.1 billion and
equity participations totalling CFAF 0.8 billion. Operations grew from an



- 14 -
annual average of CFAF 0.5 billion in 1965-67 to an average CFAF 1.5 billion
in 1968-70, then steadily increased from FY71 (CFAF 2 billion) to FY73 (CFAF
3 billion), levelled at this volume in FY74, due to temporary lack of resources
and a slight slowdown in the economy, and expanded to CFAF 4.4 billion in
FY75. During these eleven years, BIDI has assisted 224 enterprises, mainly
through granting long-term loans (i.e. with an average duration of 9 years),
which represent 60% of total operations. Its total portfolio at end of
FY74 (September 30, 1974) was CFAF 9 billion, of which CFAF 6.6 billion
was in long-term loans, i.e. about 55% of total outstanding long-term loans
in industry, tourism and services in the Ivory Coast. In fact, except for
a few loans granted by CCI from CCCE funds or by SONAFI, BIDI has been the
only long-term lender in Ivory Coast for industry and tourism. BIDI's loans
and equity investments of CFAF 8.3 billion over FY75 to FY74 related to
projects totalling nearly CFAF 48 billion; other sources of external --
mainly medium-term rediscountable credits--totalled CFAF 22 billion, while
promoters contribution and internal cash generation amounted to CFAF 17.8 bil-
lion (37% of total investment cost). BIDI's equity investments have averaged 4%
of total operations in FY70 to FY75. There are not expected to develop strongly
mainly because of the major role played by SONAFI in the field.
4.12      Geographical Distribution of Operations.  About 75% of BIDI's opera-
tions and business volume have been located in the Abidjan province. Another
5% of loans have been granted to clients located in the Bouake region and the
remaining 20% are scattered all over the country. This allocation of resources
reflects the predominance of Abidjan in the industrial activities in the Ivory
Coast; in 1973 70% of the industrial production came from the Abidjan area.
Nearly all tourism projects are also located there. The Government is putting
emphasis on development in several poles in the country (Bouake, Man, San Pedro,
Korhogo), and it can be expected that BIDI's proportion of operations outside
the Abidjan area will increase in the coming years.
4.13      Sectoral Distribution.  BIDI's portfolio is well diversified among
industrial sectors and reflects the orientation of the Ivorian economy; 16%
of operations have been directed to the textile sector, 12% to processing of
agricultural products, 13% to timber and furniture enterprises and 8% have
concerned tourism.
Client Characteristics
4.14      Most of BIDI's financing has gone to medium-sized enterprises:
75% of operations, by volume, were above CFAF 50 million each; loans and
equity investments below CFAF 20 million each represented 8% of the total
in volume, but 42% in number. However, in many cases, loans below CFAF 20
million each represent BIDI's share of a joint financing scheme. A survey
of the 47 proects approved during five EXCOM meetings in FY73 and FY74 shows
that only six projects could be related to enterprises with assets below CFAF
40 million. Among the 47 enterprises reviewed, 16 related to service activities
and 31 to manufacturing. Of the latter, 17 projects concerned processing
mainly of local raw materials. Thirteen projects were export oriented, and 18



- 15 -
served the domestic market. Although BIDI's Statement of Policy does not define
a minimum limit for its commitments, a strong development of its operations in
favor of small-scale enterprises appears improbable, given CCI's recognized role
in this sector (see para 3.05). BIDI has been, and will continue to deal
primarily with medium-scale enterprises; its influence on large-scale proj-
ects is relatively limited since its maximum normal commitment in a single
enterprise is presently about CFAF 400 million ($2 million).
4.15      More than half of BIDI's operations by number (and 60% in volume)
have been related to the creation of new enterprises. The share of financing
directed to majority Ivorian-owned enterprises has steadily increased in
the recent years and now represents 36% of financing granted, which demonstrates
BIDI's efforts to assist Ivorian enterprises, since the proportion of industrial
firms in the hands of foreigners is estimated to be higher than 70%.
Promotion
4.16      In July 1972, BIDI established with French public and private
consulting firms a subsidiary Societe D'Etudes de Developpement Industriel
(SEDI), with a share capital of CFAF 9 million, to play a promotional role
for industrial projects. SEDI, which has been managed by a French industrial
economist seconded by a French public onsulting firm, has brought to maturity
a handful of industrial projects and played a useful role in assisting BIDI
for its market analysis of several projects submitted to the company, or in
helping some clients in difficulties.  SEDI had used up all its capital re-
sources at the end of 1974, and was operating at a loss. Thus, the decision
to close the company was taken in early 1975, after BIDI had unsuccessfully
tried to convince its partners to provide new capital resources. Ilowever,
BIDI's promotional activity will not stop. BIDI has recently created in
association with Berenschoot-Borboum (a Dutch consulting firm) and BIAO a
new company to basically play the same role as did SEDI formerly. This new
outfit is staffed with the French industrial economist who was previously
with SEDI and a Dutch economist; they are paid by French and Dutch bilateral
assistance. In addition to its share capital (CFAF 15 million), this new
company will receive from BIDI the 2% rebates on interest left to it by
USAID and CIDA for promotional purposes (see para. 5.03). Also, BIDI has
offered BNDA and CCI to become partners in this new institution.
Project Work
4.17      Appraisals.  BIDI's appraisal work has progressively improved in
the past few years. Nevertheless, it needs further upgrading; so far BIDI's
clients have been mostly companies submitting well-detailed applications, so
that BIDI's appraisals consisted of a sensible description of the clients'
project accompanied by financial projections. BIDI's technical assessment of
projects is well done: the German engineer (BIDI is looking for an Ivorian
counterpart) re-evaluates the cost of the project and assesses the technical
suitability of the investments, with occasional assistance from technical



- 16 -
departments of BIDI's shareholders, or from specialized consulting firms.
The market analysis is sketchy and assumptions need to be better examined;
the economic evaluation is almost inexistent. These weaknesses in project
appraisal have not resulted in poor project selection by BIDI from a finan-
cial perspective as demonstrated by the low level of arrears (see para 5.01).
However, BIDI's management is aware of the need to upgrade work and has
recently created a new department "Research and Studies" for that purpose.
BLDI will eszimate the economic rate of return for import substituting projects
suDmitted unIder the proposed Bank loan and provide internal rate of return
analyses fo. others. This has been agreed. To develop the economic capabil-
ities of BIDI's staff, it is also planned to hold in Abidjan a two-week seminar
on techniques of economic evaluation of projects, which would be attended by
project analysts in Ministry of Planning and CCI, in addition to BIDI's staff.
BIDI also plans to nominate project analysts for EDI's industrial and develop-
ment banking courses in the future.
4.18      Follow-Up.  BIDI's supervision is satisfactory; schedules for
periodic visits to projects under implementation or in operations are pre-
pared every year, and financial statments of enterprises financed are re-
viewed automatically. This system permitted BIDI, in some cases, to detect
in due course its clients' difficulties and to assist in solving them. It
has also provided good feedback information for project appraisals. Each
year, BIDI also prepares for internal purposes a detailed study on the sit-
uation of all the enterprises it has financed.
Other Procedures
4.19      Planning and Control.  An internal financial control system was
established in 1970; it is staffed by two persons including a German recruit-
ed and paid by German aid. This unit controls BIDI's administrative expenses
and the execution of the budget, checks all documents related to loan disburse-
ments, and reports on any discrepancies. However, financial planning is weak.
Planning of disbursements is made on the basis of disbursement schedules pre-
pared by BIDI's clients and agreed upon at the time of loan signing; however,
these schedules have not been accurate in many cases and hence BIDI's projec-
tions are difficult to prepare. Due to poor cash flow planning, BIDI was
obliged in FY 74 to borrow hurriedly CFAF 1.5 billion from commercial banks,
at 1.5% above the Paris Interbank rate. This loan, whose cost has averaged
14% in 1974 and was used up to CFAF 1.25 billion, has affected BIDI's pro-
fitability in FY74. Assurances have been obtained that BIDI's financial
planning will be upgraded.  BIDI will send to the Bank quarterly reports on
its activity and financial situation, including a statement of resources
available for new commitments and disbursements.  Also, each time a loan is
presented to the Executive Committee, its source of financing is specified.
4.20      Accounting and Auditors. BIDI's accounts are audited by Price
Waterhouse, but the audit does not cover all points normally required by DFCs
by the Bank. Price Waterhouse does not evaluate BIDI's portfolio and does
not prepare the re5Lated exhibits.  BIDI's management has arranged to have a
full audit of its FY74 accounts, and to follow Bank requirements in the future.



- 17 -
4.21      Disbursement.  Disbursements are controlled through remittance of
invoices or experts' certificates and in many cases are made directly to
suppliers or contractors after visit of the site. Borrowers are requested
to prove that they have self-financed their part of the investment cost
before disbursements on loans are processed. For medium-term discountable
loans when BIDI joins other commercial banks, it only controls, along the
same lines, the disbursements when it is acting as leader. This disbursement
system works satisfactorily.
4.22      Procurement.  In many cases, BIDI learns of projects after clients
have already decided upon the equipment to be purchased, and until now,
procurement has generally not been a major concern for the institution.
In some cases, BIDI has sought advice on whether quotations received by
project sponsors were reasonable, or advised its clients on construction
contracts. BIDI has expressed its willingness to develop this aspect of
its appraisal process, in particular though better assessement of the
reasonableness of equipment costs, and henceforth appraisals will contain a
description of, and judgment on, procurement aspects of the project.
V. BIDI: FINANCIAL CONDITION
Portfolio Evaluation
5.01      As of September 30, 1974, BIDI's portfolio of CFAF 9.2 billion
consists of 17 equity investments and 122 loans (of which 53 medium-term
discountable loans). Seven loans with CFAF 19 million outstanding, i.e. 2.2%
of the loan portfolio had arrears of principal or interest over 3 months
(see Annex 8). The largest loan in arrears, accounting for nearly two-thirds
of the total, related to a brick-making company which ran into marketing
difficulties in the past years, but whose situation has improved recently.
The loan is guaranteed by the Government. Other loans in arrears also con-
cern companies which suffered from marketing problems: two loans outstand-
ing for CFAF 11 million concern companies in liquidation; BIDI has solid
guarantees on these two loans, and will be nearly totally reimbursed.
5.02      BIDI's provision for losses on loans and equity investments at end
of FY74 amounts to CFAF 153 million and seems adequate. It is calculated on
the basis of the possible near-term losses on loans to, and equity investments
in companies which are in serious trouble, after estimate of the possible
recovery from executing the guarantees and an additional provision for un-
foreseeable losses. The auditors will specifically comment on the provision
in the report which will be made available to the Bank. In the projected
income statements, provisions have been calculated so as to stay at 2% of
the outstanding portfolio, a probably still conservative proportion.



- 18 -
5.03      Many of BIDI's long-term clients have not yet started repaying
their loans, since usually these loans mature after repayment of the medium-
term loans they are associated with; in addition, at end of FY74, about
40 clients were still implementing their programs. The required full audit
will provide more detailed judgments on the quality of the portfolio and the
adequacy of the provision. However, given BIDI's good follow-up and super-
visioni work, good arrears performance and ample security and guarantees, no
major change in the provisions is expected.
5.04      BIDI's equity investments are listed in Annex 9.  Apart from FY72
and 73, where the return on these investments had averaged 32% and 20% due
to distribution by a textile company of extraordinary dividends, the return
on BIDI's equity portfolio has been negligible. One participation in a food
processing company is totally provisioned, since the enterprise is bankrupt.
The other participations mainly concern enterprises which have started
operations recently or are still implementing investment programs.
Resources
5.05      BIDI has been successful in attracting external resources from
various sources, in addition to its local resources from BCEAO and CAA (see
Annex 10). Most foreign resources have been provided at concessionary terms.
The Government has so far taken the foreign exchange risk on all of BIDI's
foreign currency borrowings. Foreign resources have come from KfW (four
loans totalling DM 30 million, 20-30 years, 2-4% interest), AID (two loans
totalling US$7.5 million, 30 years, 3.5 and 4% 1/ interest), CIDA (Canadian
$6 million, 50 years, 4% 2/ interest), CCCE (FF 1.2 million, 15 years, 5%
interest),and recently DEG (two loans for DM 10 million, 15 years, 8.5%
interest). Many of these loans have restrictions on their use; in particular
the loans from CIDA and USAID are tied to Canadian and US procurement. The
average cost of resources has been low in the past, it increased to 4.1% in
FY73 following the increase by 2 points of BCEAO's discount rate, and to 5.3%
in FY74; BIDI's spread on borrowed funds has averaged 3.5% during the past
three years.
Financial Results
5.06      BIDI's income statements for FY71-FY74 and the first ten months
of FY75, are summarized in Annex 11. Past and projected financial ratios
appear in Annex 12. Net profits increased from CFAF 134 million in FY71 to
CFAF 258 million in FY 73, i.e. a return of about 22% on average equity.
Profits in FY74 decreased to CFAF 164 million, as a result of (1) slower
I/   Of which 2% are left at BIDI's disposal to establish a fund to promote
Ivorian enterprises and a guarantee fund.
2/   To be left at BIDI's disposal to constitute a fund to promote Ivorian
enterprises.



- 19 -
disbursements than expected; (ii) the increased cost of debt; and (iii) the
sudden decrease in dividends received. Most of the profits have been allocated
to a tax-free general provision for risks, and as a result, taxation averaged
10% of profits in the recent years, and the distributable profit has remained
low, being calculated so as to raise dividends from 5% in FY69 to 7% in FY73.
Despite the decrease in gross profit in FY74, the 7% dividend could be
maintained on a share capital increased by 50% following a stock dividend
distribution in FY74. Administrative expenses have averaged 1.8% of total
assets in the past three years.
Financial Position
5.07      BIDI's balance sheets for FY71-FY74 and the provisional balance
sheet as of July 31, 1975, are summarized in Annex 13. Its situation at
end of FY74 was sound with equity totalling about CFAF 1.4 billion, a Govern-
ment subordinated loan of CFAF 1.25 billion (0% interest maturing 1980-1995),
and borrowings amounting to CFAF 7 billion. The ratio of BIDI's medium and
long-term debt to equity plus the Government loan amounted to 3.2:1 at end
of FY74. With repayments on the Government loan due before 1993 (expected
last maturity of the projected Bank loan) considered as debt, and repayments
after 1990 considered as equity, the ratio was 4.4:1..
VI. PROSPECTS
BIDI's Medium-term Goals and Operational Forecasts
6.01      Until now, BIDI has operated as an efficient, rather conservative
investment bank, relying more on its borrowers' experience and good guarantees
than on its in-depth appraisal of projects or on its own promotional efforts.
As a young institution, this strategy made sense and has allowed BIDI to dev-
elop its staff and a sound financial base. BIDI now aims at playing a more
developmental role, as demonstrated by the creation in 1972 of SEDI and the
recent establishment of a Department of Research and Studies. It also intends
to further increase its share of financing directed towards Ivotian enterprises,
and projects that operations in their favor will increase at a 20% annual rate
in the coming years, as compared to the forecast overall growth rate of 10%
annually for total operations. Financially, BIDI's objective is to continue
being a key source for long-term funds to industry and, consequently, to
steadily develop its portfolio of long-term loans to about CFAF 15 billion
in the next five years. BIDI also forecast to increase progressively its
dividends to a level (about 10%) that would permit it to raise fresh local
capital in order to increase Ivorian participation in its share capital.
6.02      Given development prospects of the Ivorian economy and in particular
of the manufacturing sector (see Para. 2.16), BIDI's business outlook appears
promising. At the end of FY75, its pipeline of projects amounted to CFAF 4.9
billion for about thirty projects. BIDI's approvals in FY 75 (CPAF 4.4 billion)



- 20 -
included about CFAF 0.85 billion for two specific projects financed under the
CIDA line of credit (CFAF 1.32 billion). Normal operations have been projected
to increase by about 10% annually from FY75 on, in line with the projected
annual growth of value added in manufacturing. During FY76, BIDI also plans
to commit for specific projects the remaining portion (about CFAF 0.47 billiQn)
of the CIDA line of credit.  As a result, BIDI's total operation for FY76
is projected to stay at about the level of FY75 (CFAF 4.4 billion). Financial
projections are given in Annexes 14 to 17.
6.03      Long-term non-discountable loans (i.e. with an average term of 10
years) are projected to represented about two thirds of total lending oper-
ations; discountable medium-term loan would represent about 20%, as against
an average 17.5% in the past; the remainder would consist of medium-term
non-discountable loans (average term of four years). Equity investments
have been projected at CFAF 100 million/year.
Resource Requirements
6.04      At the beginning of FY76, BIDI had CFAF 2 billion available for new
commitments.  Commitments until the end of 1977 (proposed limit date for
submission to the Bank of subprojects) are projected to amount to about
CFAF13.1 billion, including CFAF 2.6 billion in medium-term loans to be
discounted at BCEAO. Co,pmitments on non-discountable operations are thus
projected to amount to C$AF 10.5 billion over the period, to be partly fi-
nanced as follows:
CFAF
- Resources available at beginning
of FY75                                2 billion
- Repayments to BIDI on
non-dipcountable loans: CFAF 4.6 bil.
Less: repayment by BIDI on its
borrowings (excluding BCEAO) 2.9 bil.
CFAF 1.7 billion
- BIDI's projected internal cash
generation from profits and
provisions                              1.1 billion
CFAF 4.8 billion
Thus the remaining resource gap for new commitments amounts
to about CFAF 5.7 billion, which would be covered as follows:
CFAF
- Proposed Bank loan of $8 million        1.6 billion (28%)
- Loans from DEG and CAA (obtained)       1.1  "       (12%)
- Loans from CCCE, DEG, possibly ADB    3.0  "         (60%)
CFAF   5.7 billion



- 21 -
CCCE has indicated its willingness to provide about CFAF 0.7 billion/year
to BIDI (i.e. about CFAF 1.7 billion over the period). DEG has already
made two loans of DM 5 million (CFAF 0.45 billion) each to the institution,
and has also expressed its willingness to continue lending to BIDI. The
ADB is presently considering a loan of about 2 million units of accounts
(about CFAF 0.5 billion). Since BIDI's long-term loans are usually mixed
with discountable funds, the foreign component of a project is normally
greater than the amount of the long-term loan granted by BIDI, and thus
the proposed Bank loan would be used only to finance expenditures outside
the Ivory Coast (i.e. the CIF cost of imported goods, the foreign cost of
services, and the foreign component of civil works).
Forecast Financial Results
6.05      Given the high cost of debt incurred in 1974, and the increase
by 25% of personnel charges recently approved by BIDI's Board, BIDI's profit-
ability in FY75 will remain low as compared by FY72 and FY73. Net profits
is forecast to represent 12% of average equity (12.5% in FY74) as against
an average 22% in FY72 and 73. However, returns on average equity of about
20% should again be attained from FY77 on, as a consequence of the expected
higher spread resulting from the more rapid increase of the average income
from loans than of the average cost of resources. Dividends have been pro-
jected to be progressively raised to 10% considered as the minimum necessary
to attract Ivorian investors with a view to a share capital increase.
6.06      BIDI's portfolio would increase to CFAF 21.7 billion at the end
of FY79. Equity is projected to increase to nearly CFAF 3 billion, whereas
borrowings (including the Government loan of CFAF 1.25 billion) would reach
CFAF 18.5 billion. By that time (end of FY79), the debt to equity ratio 1/
would have decreased to 4.9:1 after having peaked at 6.1:1 in FY76. BIDI's
debt service coverage both for interest and interest plus principal should
be over 2:1 throughout the life of the proposed Bank loan. Given BIDI's
experience, its good portfolio and rather strong cash flow, this degree of
leverage is acceptable and a 6:1 ratio has been agreed with the repayments
on the Government loan maturing after the proposed Bank loan is totally
reimbursed being considered as equity.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMIENDATIONS
7.01      BIDI is a well-established and profitable institution.  During the
first decade of its existence, it has progressively expanded its operations
and its disbursements now represent about 10% of industrial investment in
the Ivory Coast. The share of BIDI's operations going to Ivorian-owned
enterprises has progressively increased from an average of about 10% in FY70
to 36% in FY74.
1/   With Government Loan repayments before 1993 considered as debt.



- 22 -
7.02      BIDI's management is a good one, respected by the Government and
the business community. The areas where BIDI can improve are in evaluating
the economic impact of projects, better financial planning and promotional
activity.
7.03      Prospects for BIDI are good.  A Bank loan of $8 million would cover
about 30% of its resource requirements through the end of 1977; with this
first loan to BDI, the Bank's objectives would be:  (i) to fill a gap in
the import financing requirements of a competent intermediary for productive
invesrnent in the Ivory Coast; (ii) to strengthen BIDI's internal procedures
in the area of financial planning and control and the economic aspects of
project appraisal; and (iii) to assist the institution's efforts towards a
more developmental role in promoting sound investments. Apart from this
institution building effect, the funds made available will, on the basis of
past experience, allow BIDI to be associated with total investments of about
CFAF 15 billion, which are estimated to create jobs for over 5,000 persons.
7.04      During negotiations, agreement was reached and assurances were
obtained on the following main points:
(a)  BIDI's lending rate for long-term loans would be at least
11% per annum, resulting in a minimum cost of capital for the
subborrower of 13% (para 3.12);
(b)  the foreign exchange risk for the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan would be borne by the sub-borrowers (para 3.11);
(c)  use of the proceeds of the Bank loan to finance the C.I.F. cost
(i.e. the price at Ivory Coast's border) of imported goods, the
foreign cost of services, and the foreign component of civil
works (estimated at 35% of total cost) (para 6.04);
(d)  BIDI would take steps to improve its financial planning
(para 4.19) and its economic appraisal of subprojects (para 4.17);
(e)  prior approval by the Bank of subprojects amounting to more than
US$200,000, with an aggregate free limit of US $2 million.
7.05      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$8 million equivalent,
with a flexible amortization schedule conforming substantially to the aggregate
amortization schedule of the subprojects, none of which should exceed 15 years.



IVORY COAST
Origin of G.D.P. at Current Prices
- (FAF billion)
Industry                     1965    1968      1969     1970     1971      1972     1973
Mining                               1.7       1.0     1.1      0.9      1.3       1.5      1.8
Cereals and flour                    2.6      3.9      3-5      4.2      4.6       5.5      6.8
Canning and food preservation        1.5      2.4      2.5      3.8      4.5       6.o      4.9
Beverages, ice                        0.8      1.3     1.6       2.3      2.7      3.0      3.4
Oils and fats                        0.9      1.1      1.1      2.2       2.4      2.3      3.6
Other food industries                1.7      2.1      2.1      2.8       3.6      3.9      4.4
Textile and clothing                 4.3       7.0     7.6       8.8      9.7    11.6    11.0
Leather, footwear                    0.4      0.9      0.9      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.2
Forest industry                      3.8       3.6     3.7      4.2       3.8      4.3      6.1
Petroleum products                   1.1      8.6    10.3    10.9        11.7    14.6    15.5
Chemical products, plastics
and fertilizer                     1.2      2.1      2.4       3.0      3.3      3.7      3.7
Rubber products                      0.04     0.2      0.4      0.5       0.9      0.4      065
Construction material                0.2               1        1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5
Material industry                     0.1     0.2       0.3      0.5      0.6      0.5      0.5
Construction and repair
transport material                 2.7      3.6      4.3       5.0      6.1      6.6      8.1
Other mechanical and
electrical industries              1.2      1.6      2.1       2.6      3.2      4.0      4.5
Other industrial products            1.3      1.8      1.9       2.3      2.7      2.9      3.2
Electrical energy                     2.1     3.4      4.1      14.6      4.8      5.7      6.3
Total Industry              27.8    45.3    51.1    61.1        68.o    79.0    87.0
Primary sector                      84.9   101.1   108.2   112.6   117.6   125.1   159.2
Construction                        12.8    16.8    17.7    27.9    33.4    32.5           34.5
Transport                           21.0    26.5    30.8    31.9    37.6    42.2    53.l
Services                            46.8    83.7      99.5   112.3   108.8   114.3   136.6
Administration, Import duties       43.5    51.1    56.7    68.2         73.8    78.5    93.6
Total G.D.P.              236.8   324.5   364.0   414.0   439.2   471.6   564.0
Source: Ministry of planning
DFCD
January 15, 1975



IVORY COAST
Development in Priority Enterprises
( CFAF billion )
(Actual)
1967      1968      1969       1970      1971
Share Capital                           15.2      16.3       17.8      17.9       22.0
Government participations                2.1       2.1        2.6       3.2        3.3
Total Gross Investment                  24.8      27.7       31.9      38.9       47.3
Gross Annual Investment                  3.3       2.9        4.2       7.0        8.4
Turnover                                29.8      36.5       43.7      51.3       67.7
Exports                                 10.5      13.5       16.3      17.7       20e2
Profits                                  1.4       1.6        2.7       2.8        2e6
Taxes paid (direct & indirect)           1.7       2.4        3.1       4.0        5.3
Value added                              9.2      11.8       14.9      16.6       21.1
Employment Year End
Ivorians                         4,791     6,731      8,231     9,127    11,990
In supervisory functions         (119)     (164)      (217'     (300)      (376)
Other Africans                   6,696     6,616      6,938     7,824      8,444
Other Expatriates                  581       633        667       657        728
Salaries paid to Ivorians &
Other Africans                     1.8       2.3        2.8       3.4        4.8
Salaries paid to other Expatriates       1.3       1.6        1.7       1.8        2.3
Number of enterprises                     53        55         60        63         69
Source:  Ministry of Planning
DCDD
August 6, 1975                                                                                      N



IVORY COAST
Summarized Balance Sheets of the Four Commercial Banks
All   Commercial    Banks                         Shares of Individual Banks as of 9-30-74
(      CFkF   billion              )    %      (   CFAF   billion    )   (                      )
30.9.71  22.9.72  1.10.73  30.9 74 30.9.74
ASSETS                                                                         BIAO   BICI   SIB   SGB   BIAO  BICI  SIB  SGB
Short-tern credits           43.7      51.2      63.0      70.8      49      13.1   15.4  15.9  26.4    19    22    22   37
Bills                        17.2      20.4      20.9      30.8      21        7 4    6.6   5.B  11.0    24    21    19   36
Medium-term credits            3.3      5.2       7.4      10.9       8        1.9    4.2   1.1   3.7      17    3      10 3
Cash & Bank accounts          3.9       4.0       5.2       8.3              *1.3    1.0   .  4.5    16    12    18   54
Other assets                  5.6       9.6      16.2      24.5      17       9.4    7.3   4.0   3.8    38    30    16   16
Total Assets/L,iabilities    73.7  ~(.          112.7    T1277Y   100        73.      W -T .7 7F7 797T   273   -2   179_3
LIABILITIES
Current accounts             20.3      24.7      27.2      35.5      24       6.8    8.3   8.1  12.3    19    23    23   35
Checks accounts               18.0     18.8      21.6       24.5     17        3.5    5.4   4.0  11.6    14    22    16  L48
Accounts payable
after clearance             9.1       9.9     11.8       17.7      12       5.3    3.2   2.2   7.0    30    18    12   40
Bank deposits                  7.2      8.0      10.6       11.0      8        3.9    2.3   2.5   2.3    35    21    23   21
Other deposits                13.9     22.1      32.0       45.1     31       11.2   13.0   9.3  11.6    25    29    21   25
Capital, reserves, profits   5.2        6.9    935         11.5       8        2.4    2.3   2.2   4.6    21    20    19   40
73.7     90.4~   112.7         5_.3    500      3T71   34.5  2F.-3 49.4W   73T   77    10   3
OTHER ITEMS
Liabilities by guarantees   13.1       15.0     20.3       26.0               2.5    7.5   6.3   9.7    10    29    24   37
Bills in circulation         15.6      23.5      28.6      46.9              14.1   11.8   7.8  13.2    30    25    17   28
Confirmed credit  pending    3.0        4.8       9.1       8.6                3.7    2.3   0.8   1.8    43    27        1   29
Source: BCEAO
DFCD
August 6, 1975 
Lt



ANNEL
BANQUJE IVOIRIENNE DE IEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
Board of Directors
(as of April 30, 1975)
Members                                         Alternate
Class A
J.B. AMETHIER, Director of External Finance          E. EBAGNITCHIE
Ministry of Finance, Governor of BIDI
Societe Nationale de Financement (SONAFI)            J.B. AMETHIER
E. EBAGNITCHIE (representing the Parliament)         C. KONAN (General
Manager of SONAFI)
Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique            M. PENANT D'HYZARN
(CCCE)                                            (Director of CCCE
in Abidjan)
Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest (BCEAO)                                   L. DIABATE
H. WYSS - I.F.C.
Class B
A. DIBY, General Manager, BIDI                       D. BAMBA
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking'Co.                 H. de CARMOY
R. MALAN (Lazard Bros.)                              E. BLACK (Lazard Bros.)
BIAO                                                 M. DOUNBIA
STE. A. BLOHORN                                      M. KELLER (SCOA)
R. HOEN (Chase Manhattan Bank)                       NYMAN (Skandinaviska
Ens. Banken)
Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft                    Berliner Frankfurter Bank
Exeutive Committee
J.B. AMETHIER                                          C. KONAN
A. DIBY                                                 D. BAMBA
H. DE CARMOY                                           BIAO
R. MALAN                                               A. DOUMBIA
CCCE                                                   M. PENANT D'YZARN
Observers
H. WYSS I.F.C.
M. KOFFI N' GUESSAN, General Secretary, Guarantee Fund
IFCD
August 6, 1975



BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
ORGANIZATION CHART
(AS OF APRIL 1975)
Board of Directors
Executive Committe
|  GeneralMage            L
(Mr.Diy 
Mr. Soumahoro Sekou    l                              Mr. Tiemoko Konan    l                            and Studies                                    Mr. Moussa Kone
[                            J                                                                           Mr. Ndri .
Deputy Director                 Deputy Director Investment                         Deputy Director Finance                                Deputy Director                                  lDeputy Diecto
Legal Department                Mr. Somali                                         Mr. Paul Kra                                           of Research                                      of Administration
Mr. Kilimo]
Legal Affairs                                                                                                              Documentation                uie en
|  Service     |    |  Credit Sere  |          Technia Servicx |       Accounting Service|    Information Service|         Service                          e M   ng          Mae       ervc          Personnel
Professionals       18 
Non-Professionals  19
Total               37
DFCD
August 6, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                        World Bank - 15267



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
Statement of Objectives and Management Policy
(As amended on February 26, 1973)
The Bank, an Institution of the Ivory Coast that enjoys benefits
granted by the Republic of the Ivory Coast, is assisted by French public
bodies and the International Finance Corporation and is also supported by
an international group composed of private financing institutions, local
banks and private individuals. All these have assumed the risk of a capital
participation in the Bank.
The Bank shall therefore take account of these interests in the
pursuit of its over-all objective, which is that of encouraging the develop-
ment of private economy and of attracting capital investment to the Ivory
Coast.
The basic obligations of the Bank are specified in the Agreement of
Establishment concluded with the Republic of the Ivory Coast. These obliga-
tions are as follows:
(a) To encourage the development of private industrial enterprises
in the Ivory Coast and to promote the participation of foreign
and domestic capital in the industrial development of the
country.
(b) To spare no effort in studying the financing of new industrial
enterprises and to stimulate foreign investment in the Ivory
Coast under the most favorable conditions possible for the
execution of projects approved by the Government.
(c) To provide professional and technical training for Ivory
Coast nationals, so that they may be employed in the Bank
at all levels, up to the limit only of their competence, and
in particular to train them in disciplines necessary to the.
general and financial management of the enterprise.
It is stated in the Statutes that the Bank has the right to:
(a) Subscribed, purchase and otherwise acquire, hold, sell and place
in waatever manner, capital shares of any kind and also Ivory
Coast securities of any nature, and exercise all rights pertain-
ing tnereto;
(b) Make all types of loans at medium-terms (1 to 5 years) and at
long-cerm, with or without guarantee in the Republic of the
Ivory Coast;



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c)  To give its guarantee and surety;
(d) Participate in the placing, issuance and distribution of shares
and other securities of every kind;
(e) Assign to third parties the rights deriving from any loans or
investments in securities made by the Company and invest or
reinvest the proceeds in accordance with the provisions of
Article 2 of the Statutes;
(f) In general, engage in all operations, transactions or enter-
prises of any nature, whether financial, industrial or commer-
cial and whether in movable or immovable property that are
directly or indirectly related to the above-mentioned objects
or that could by their nature facilitate, promote or develop
its business.
The Statutes of the Bank prohibit it from engaging in certain
operations of a purely banking nature. In particular, the Bank shall not
accept deposits of any kind of drafts or bills of exchange.
The Bank shall seek to obtain a profit and to carry out its activi-
ties in accordance with a prudent and orthodox financial policy, taking
account of its responsibilities and of its directive role in the community,
and also of the present state of the financial market in the Ivory Coast.
In general, its activities shall be based on the following principles:
1.   Nature of the Projects to be Financed.  The Bank shall grant
its assistance to private industrial enterprises of the Ivory
Coast, as defined in its Statues, including mining and forestry
concerns and the exploitation of marine resources.
2.   Feasibility and Profitability of the Projects.  The Bank shall
be the sole judge of the feasibility and profitability of the
projects in which it invests, and of the competence of the
persons in charge of them.
3.   Conditions of Management of the Enterprises.  The persons in
charge of managing the projects or taking the initiative
therein shall be experienced and shall have a financial
interest in the success of the enterprise. In general, the
Bank shall refrain from financing projects proposed by suppliers
of equipment or by advisers who would not later be responsible
for management. When a supplier is in charge of the management
of a project, he shall have a greater interest in the operation
than that which he can reasonably expect to obtain from the
sale of equipment or services.
4.   Nationality.  Financing arrangement for the projects will be
made regardless of the nationality of the promoters. However,



ANNEX 6
Page 3
special attention will be paid to projects proposed by Ivory
Coast promoters.
5.   Private Enterprises.  The Bank shall finance only enterprises
that are controlled and directed by private interests. State
participation in an enterprise shall not necessarily prevent
the Bank from financing it, provided that its interests,
measured according to voting rights or to share in the control
of the management of the enterprise is not predominant, and
especially when the state investment is only provisional until
the enterprise is transferred to private interests. Those
enterprises which comply with the following three criteria
shall be deemed to be private enterprises regardless of the
percentage of their capital held by the Government Sector:
-    purpose of the company:  production of goods or
services with a view to make profits and to distri-
bute earnings.
-    management entrusted to the Private Sector.
production sold on a free and competitive market.
6.   Size of the Projects.  In order to be able to make its assist-
ance available to small private Ivorian entrepreneurs, the Bank
does not fix any inferior limit for projects which are present-
ed to it.
7.   Extent of Commitments.  The maximum commitment that the Bank
may assume (loans plus capital subscription) shall not exceed
15% of its net worth (including the advance granted to it by
the Government). Those projects for which it appears desirable
to exceed this limit will be studied by the Executive Committee
on their merits, and decisions will be made on a case-to-case
basis.
8.   Capital Investments.  In addition to granting loans, the Bank
may also subscribe shares or securities of private industrial
enterprises of the Ivory Coast, when the provisions made
for appreciation or dividends are considered satisfactory.
The Bank shall not make capital investments of which the
cumulative value would exceed, in purchase value, the amount
of its capital (after deduction of any losses) and of its
non-ear-imarked reserves.
9.   Control of the Enterprises.  The Bank shall not hold the
majority interest in any enterprise or any other interest that
would essentially give it responsibility for the management
of the enterprise; it shall not, save in exceptional cases



ANNEX 6
Page 4
or in the event of present or imminent danger, assume res-
ponsibility for management of the enterprises in which it has
invested; it shall not hold more than a 30% participation in
the capital of an enterprise, but it may however undertake
to place shares beyond that percentage, if, at the time of
giving such an undertaking, it considers that it will not in
fact be called upon to take more than 30% of the capital of
the enterprise.
10.   Distribution of the Investments.  The Bank shall distribute
its financing among enterprises of different categories.
11.   Liquidity.  The Bank wishes to place on record the fact that
it will not be in a position to liquidate its participations
and to renew its portfolio for a certain length of time, and
that when making an investment it may not at the time be able
to forsee how it will withdraw its investment; nevertheless,
it shall not consider itself a permanent lender but shall
organize its financing bearing in mind a possible assignment
of its participations to institutions and to private individuals,
whether in the Ivory Coast or elsewhere.
12.   Reserves.  The Bank shall create and maintain adequate reserves.
13.   Financial Statements.  Reports on Activities.  The Bank shall
require its borrowers to furnish provisional financial state-
ments at least once a quarter, and annual financial statements
drawn up by independent experts. It shall also receive reports
on activities from its borrowers, which shall be sent to it
without delay and at reasonable intervals. The borrowers shall
be asked to accept the restrictions governing the use of Bank
funds from external sources and to help the Bank to fulfill its
obligations in this regard.
14.   ManagEment and Staff of the Bank.  The Bank shall install the
managerial staff and obtain the personnel necessary to a well-
balanced organization that includes financial and economic
analysis, technical, accounting and legal services and the
supervision of investments that have already been made. The
Bank shall train Ivory Coast staff so that they will be capable
of assuming senior positions when these are vacated by the
foreign staff.
Rates of pay and promotion shall always be conditional upon
merit and ability and not nationality.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
15.   Cooperation with Existing Organizations.  The Bank shall
cooperate with the organizations and services already in
existence in the Ivory Coast.
16.   Development of the Capital Market.  The Bank shall make a
long-term contribution to the development of the capital
market in the Ivory Coast. In particular the Bank shall not,
except in special circumstances, depart from the following
financial principles:
(a) Guarantees in favor of the Bank. The Bank expects
to receive sufficient pledges for the loans that it
grants, which pledges shall be of first grade in
cases where the Bank is the lender granting the
longest terms or providing for the major portion of
the loans. In addition to these pledges, the Bank
shall take account of the profit-making ability de-
monstrated by the promoters and managers of the project.
(b) Applications for Assistance. The Bank shall not grant
loans to be used purely for the repayment of debts to
third parties. Generally speaking it shall not make
loans for the purpose of setting up working capital and,
in any case, the loans granted for this purpose shall
never exceed the amount of the working capital funds
that may be considered as a minimum.
(c) Rate of Interegt. It is expected that the Bank will
charge suitable rates, having due regard to the capital
market in the Ivory Coast, wlhich will enable it, without
discouraging investment in the country, to obtain a
reasonable return on its capital, to set up adequate
reserves and to distribute reasonable dividends to its
shareholders, on the basis of a sound financial policy.
In addition, it is understood that the Bank may seek to parti-
cipate in the benefits, especially by obtaining the possibility
of converting part of its long-term loans in an equity participa-
tion.
(d) Other Forms of Investment and Supplementary Remuneration.
The Bank may make loans recorded by credit instruments
of all kinds, such as commercial paper, convertible
bonds or other similar securities. When the Bank finances
a project it may also receive supplementary remuneration
by way of the remittance of shares or of other types of
participations.
(e)  Comnitment Charge.  A commitment charge shall be required.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(f) Exchange Risks. The Bank shall not assume the exchange
risk on a loan made in foreign exchange that it has
itself borrowed.
(g) Investment Agreements. The disbursement of resources
by the Bank shall be the subject of written agreements
between the Bank and the borrowers. Borrowers shall
repay to the Bank all reasonable consultation fees that
it has incurred, and all expenses arising out of the
operation.
(h) Guarantees Granted by the Bank. The Bank shall only
grant a guarantee when the project concerned could have
benefited from a direct loan.
(i) Other Forms of Assistance. The Bank shall strive to
assist the project promoters to prepare and submit their
investment proposals although it is recognized that
the Bank, in particular at the initiation of its opera-
tions, will not have available the necessary staff to
give technical advice and prove assistance on a large-
scale.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
Loan Statistics
(in CFAF million)
(a)  Approvals (net of reductions)
(of which)      Equity              No. of
Fiscal Year  Long-term   Medium-term  rQdiscountable  investments  TOTAL  Operations
1965
(10 months)        280           317          171            -           691     10
1966
(9 months)         459            80           80           10           459      7
1966/67             390           96           90            71          553       3
1967/68             495          527           96             -        1,029      27
1968/69           1,548          647          170            44        2,239      33
1969/70             710          627          231             1        1,338      31
1970/71             750        1,044          438          132         1,926     25
1971/72          1,597           587          587          153         2,337     21
1972/73           2,210          514          347           209        2,933     24
1973/74         11536          1493           $70          _ 6         334    45
1974/75          2,672         1 556.         890           140        4 368     30
12,647        7,4bb        3,6715         - 766      20,0        6
(b)  Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) according to size 1/
Total     Over 100      51-100       21-50    20 or less
No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount
Long-term loans     97 12,647   48  9,707   22  1,962   20    868    7    110
Medium-term loans  212  7,488   10  1,935   28  1,951   60  2,201  114  1,401
Equity investments  31    766    1    150    4    305    5    185   21    126
Total:     3v0 20,901    9 11,792    I  4,218   F  3,254  IJ   1,637
% of Total          100    100   17      56   16     20   25      16   42      8
(c)  Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) according to Sector of Activity
No. of enterprises financed   Amount   % of total
Textiles                                         16                 3,003      14.4
Food, beverages processing of fruit              43                 2,698      12.4
Tourism-Hotel                                    21                 2a,575     12.3
Timber and furniture                             10                 1,603       7.7
Metal industry                                   20                 1 ,544       7.4
Fats and oil                                     22                 1,518        7.3
Fishing                                           6                 1,297        6.2
Transport,distribution                            9                 1,147        5.5
Construction, building materials                  5                 1,019        4.9
Services                                         12                   883        4.2
Plastics                                         13                   582        2.8
Electrical industry                              12                   695        3.3
Large-scale agriculture                            3                  241        1.1
Ot,hers                                           32                2 096       10.0
Total:                                  224                           100.0
1/  Combined loans and equity investments for the same project, which are counted as one
operation in Table (a) have been broken down into separate operations in Table (b).
DFCD
August 6, 1975



AIMS X 7
Page 2
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEIVELOPPIEEIT IINDUSTIJUEL
Loan Statistics
(in CFAF million)
(d) Geographical Breakdown of Operations (Approvals)
No. of enterprises financed       Amount       % of total
Abidjan                                170                   15,611           74.7
Bouake                                    8                     776            3.7
Other locations                         46                    4,514           21.6
Total                         224                   20,901         100.0
(e) Breakdown of Cperations (Approvals) according to Purpose
No. of enterprises financed        Amount      , of total
New projects                           117                   11,908           57.0
Extensions                             107                    8,993           43.
Total                         224                   20,901          100.0
(f) Breakdown of Operations (Approvals) according to Ownership of Borrowers
Capital Structure of       No. of enterprises financed        Amount      % of total
Borrowers
Ivorian majority                        75                    6,403           35.5
Foreign majority                       149                   13,b98           64.5
Total                         224                   20,901         100.0
DFCD
August 6, 1975



B-ANQUE IVOIRIEMIE DE DEVELOPPFEI4RT INDUSTRIEL
Problen Proj ects
(as of september  974)                                       -
Year            Outstanding
Company                    ity       Approval         IDObservations   Gu- G.:rtees
Forges et                                                                Ivorian - Insufficiert inarkueU._
Boulonnerie          Mecnanlcs         969             9e00              Some slight irimprovemenrt - hircm ,api-Lal
d' Abidjan                                                                increase in process. i4rrtr:.,  rn personal
guaranteeas
A-^}'A               Repair           1969              5e40             Ivorian-1Narketing probleris - !'c,rtgage,
Shop                                                Guarantee Fund and Persona:. i!-irantee
Improving.
Chausson
Afrique              Batteries        1970             24h50             Technical difficulties now solved -
Guarantee from mother company (France).
MIB                  Brushes           1970            14.40             Ismaelian -Market Problems:  Improving
Mortgage and personal guarantees
FINUMk               Food
processing       1967              6.00             Ivorian - Failure due to marx-;%2ng problems
Fully provisiorned.
SIVETI               Textile           1971             5.35             Ivorian - Failure due to marketing problems -
MIortgage Guarantee Fund a-ad personal guarantee.
Fully provisioned.
Total            64.65
1/  Excluding SOBRICI, (loans outstanding for CFAF 120 million); this brick-making company had su2i d
from technical and marketing difficulties in 1970-73; the conpany is now operating well, &1      :gh
its financial structure is still fragile.
i Plu8 - Equity investment: 8.16 totally provisioned
DFCD August 6, 1975



ANNEX 9
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
(Equity Investments)
(As of April 30, 1975)
BIDI's Investment            1973 Net      Dividends
Year             at cost          % of    Profit as      Paid to BIDI
Company     Activity            Approved        (CFAF million)   Shares   % of share    in FY 74 as
capital       % of share
capital
SOTEXI      Textile              1967              52.5           15.0        6
FINUMA      Food processing      1965                b.1          23.3         L
SIVENG      Chemistry            1967               11.0           1.8        1.
SOCEF       Fishing              1969                2.0           1.1        27
COCI        Vegetable oil        1969              19.5           10.0        L
SAFBAIL     Service              1970-74            14.9          16.8        16             3
PECI        Plastics             1970               6.0           15.0       77              -
SERIC       Food processing      1971                0.5           0.1         I
Les Arcades Real estate          1972              70.0           30.0        L              -
SICOGERE    Services             1972-74            o.6            5.0       37             16
SODACAP     Plastics             1972                5.0          16.1        49
MRP         Plastics             1972               40.0          20.0        7
UTEXI       Textile              1972              150.0           7.5         I
SITHCO      Hotel                1973               10.0          10.0         I
COTIVO      Textile              1973              100.0           7.5         I
ICODI       Textile              1973               30.0           4.o       24
SIMEA       Transportation       1973               45.5          15.0       448
STESCO      Services             1973                0,05                     n.a.
SEP         Services             1974-75             0.65          5.0        n.a.
C.I.        Food                                   20.0
TRIBOIS     Wood                                    50.0
SAFERM-C.I.                                         70.0
706 5 1
L   Company operating at a loss
I   Company implementing an investment program
2I of which 143 not yet disbursed
DFCD
Aagust 6, 1975



BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
External Borrowings (excluding BCEAO)
Date of                  Rate of    Foreign                                Outstanding
Institution    Signature      Amount    Interest   Exchange risk  Duration  Repayment  as of 9-30-74              Observations
(CFAF million)
CAA   I          1970      CFAF 500m.      5.5          None          5 yrs    1971-75)
)
CAA  II          1972      CFAF 500m.      6.o          None         10 yrs    1972-82)
)      2,025         Mostly used in hotel
CAA III          1973      CFAF 500m.      7.5          None         21 mos    1973-75)                     projects
CAA  IV          1974      CFAF lOOm.    8.0           None         10 yrs    1974-84)
CAA   V          1975      CFAF llOGm. 600m. XT 8.5%   -                 yrs
50Qm. ST 7.5%                1 yr.
KfWT   1          1968     DM lOIn. O4.0               Gvrent        20 yrs    1973-88)                    For small and medium
)                   size enterprises.  Pro-
KfN  II           1970     DI 5m.          4.0         Gvment        20 yrs    1976-90)       1,167         curement outside Ivory
)                   Coast
Kf"T, III        1970      DY, 5m.         4.o         Gvment        20 yrs    1979-97)
Maximum DM 500,000 Pe
subproject. For enter-
KfW,,  IV       1974      DM4 lOn.        2.0         Gvment        30 yrs    1984-2004                   prises owned 30% at least
by Ivorians. Procurement
outside Ivory Coast
DF'G 1            1974     DM 5m.         8.5         Gvmnent       15 yrs    1979-94                     Semi-annual reimbursement
D XE  2          1975    D]M %.            8.5         Gvment       15 yrs    1980-95
AID              1965      Wi5 4r.         L.0  j      Gvment        30 yrs    1973-95        1,248        To promote Ivorian
enterprise s. Procurement
AID Entente      1973      $2.5 m.         3.5         Gvment        30 yrs    1978-2003                   U.S. or LDC countries
CCCE             197)4     CFAF 600n.      6.0         None         15 yrs                      195        Max. CFAF 100 m,. per
subproj e ct
CIDA             1974      $6 in..         4*/         Gvment       50 yrs    1984-2024                    Canadian procurement
1/ 2 7 to be put aside for a guarantee fund and a fund to promote Ivorian enterprises.
5/ To be left at BIDI's disposal to constitute a fund to promote Ivorian enterprises
3/ CCCE has alsc accepted in FY-75 to finance, on a case-by-case basis, sub-projects approved by BIDI   for a total               o
DFCD                                                                       of about (CFAF 700,millioo
August 6, 197T



ANTNE 1 1
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
Summarized Income Statements /
(in CFAF million)
FY 71    FY 72    FY 73    FY 74    10-1-74--7-  -
----    :audited      -             unaudited
INCOME
interest and commission
on loans                    318       381      448      670             610
Interest on short-term
investments                  20        12       14       12               8
Dividends                       3        78       78         1             17
Other                          42        21       52        33             30
Total income             383      492       592      716            665
EXPEIS
Administrative expenses        95       102      128       147           159
(off which depreciation)     (12)     (14)      (18)     (20)
Financial expenses            115       130      181       342           326
Provision for losses           10        26        3         9            -
Total expenses           220      259       312      498            h8W
Earnings before tax           163       233      280       218           180
Tax                            29        20       22        54            -
Dividends                      35        42       49        74            _
Reserves                       99       171      209       90             -
1/ FY: October 1 - September 30
/ Including exceptional expenses stated for BIDI's tenth anniversary:  25
DFCD
August 6, 1975



ANNEX,' 12
BANQUB IVOIRIENIE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
Financial Hatios
(FY ending September 30)
Actual                              Projected
P172     FY73    FY74        FY75    FY76       FY77     FY7b     FY79
Income Statement Elements
as ' of Average Total Assets
Gross income          8.8     9.0      8.6        8.7      9.0      9.3       9.6       9.9
Less Financial
expenses           2.4      2.8      4.2       4.1       4.3      4.4       4.7       5.1
Administrative
expenses           1.&      1.9      1.8       1.7       1.6      1.5       1.5       1.5
Gross profit          4.6     4.3      2.6        2.9      3.1       3.4      3.4       3.3
Less Provisions 1/    .4       -         -        0.8      0. 4     0.3       0.2       0.2
Tax                  .4      .3       e6        0.6      0.5      0.5       0.5       0.4
Net Drofit             3.8    4.0      2.0        1.5      2.2      2.6       2.7       2.7
Net profit and Dividends
Net profit as . of   30.4   36.9      15.6       16.2     27.3      39.2     46.3      50.9
year-end share capital
-  a s  %1,0 of
average equity        22.4   22.5     12.5       12.0     15.7     22.0      21.5      19.8
'ebt To Equity Ratio
Total debt/equity    4.9:1   4.7:1    6.o:1   7.3:1    7.7:1    7.1:1    6.4:1        5.8:1
As per Bank          3.2:1   3.3:1    4.4:1.  5.4:1    6.1:1    5.8:1    5.3:1        4.9-)1
definition 2/
Debt coverage
Interest and  3/             17:1    2.14:1   2.1:1    2.2:1    2.3:1    2.L.:1    2.6:1
Principal coverage
Lncome from loans and cost of resources
average cost of                           5/
resources 4/      3.7    4.1       5.3        5.2      5.14      5.6      5.7       5.8
Average income frorm
loans             7.5    7.5       8.9        8.7      9.0       9.3      9.6       9.8
1/ As from FY-75, provisions are estimated at 2% of portfolio increase
2/ i.e. including in equity maturities on the Goverment loan maturing after repayment
of the proposed Bank loan.
3/PAT + i l-t)_+ L.C.
i (1-t) + R
Tcluding government loan (0% interest) and share capital (10% cost)
./ Excluding cost of Chase loan: 5.0
17 CD
August 6,1975



ANFX 1 3
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE M  DEVL OPPEMENT INflJSTRIMJ
Summarized Balance Sheets
as of September 30
(in CFAF million)
1971      1972        1973      197L      7-31-75
(audited) (audited) (audited) (audited) (unaudited)
ASSETS
Current Assets (net)                       3514      224         256        448       818
Portfolio
-Bonds                                    2         17          11        17         34
Long-term loans                        3506      4353        5114      6627       7974
Medium-term loans                      1119      1122        13514     2055       2428
(of which rediscounted)              (553)     (807)      (1172)    (1398)    (1673)
Equity investments                      132       371         394       507        584
Total                 4759      5863        6873      9206      11020
(less provision)            (13)       (160)      (149       (153)     [155)
7824     -57-0 3-     6724      9053      10865
Fixed assets (net)                         163       162        147        139        137
Total                 5141      6089        7127      9640      11820
LIABILITIES
Share Capital                              700       700         700      1050       1050
Reserves                                   157        338        556        319       506  1
Equity                                     857      1038        1256       1369      1556
Goverrment loan                           1250      1250        1250      1250       1250
Borrowings:
BCEAO                                   553       807        1172      1385       1651
AID                                    1346      1346        1315      1248       1310
Kfw                                     735       848         959       1168      11490
CAA                                     400       800        1175      2025       2675  /
CCCE                                     -         -           -        195        355
Chase                                                          -       1000       1260
DEG                                      -         -         _                     273
Total                 3034      3801        4621       7021      9014
TOTAL                                        51141      6089       7127       9640     11820
1/  Including provisional profits before taxes   180
y/ Including short-term loan - 800
DFC
August 6, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INIDJSTRIE
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1)  Approvals -  CFAF 4.3 billion in FY-76, increasing by about 10' per annum.
Breakdown
Equity investments: CFAF 100 million/year
Loans: Two thirds loans with an average maturity of 10 years
(including 3 years grace period)
Twenty percent discountable loans with an average
maturity of 6 years (including 1 year grace period)
The remainder (about 15%)in non-discountable medium
term loans (average maturity of h years without any
grace period)
2) Disbursements - Long-term loans: 40% year of approval, 40% second year
20% third year.
Medium-term loans:  60% year of approval, 40% second year
Equity investment: 100% year of approval.
3) Average interest on loans -
Medium-term discountable loans:  8.25% 1/
Other loans: long-term loans: 9.5% in FY-75 increasing
progressively to 10% in FY-79
medium-term loans: 8% in FY-75 increasing
progressively to 9% in FY-79
L.) Average cost of debt - Discount at Central Bank: 5.75% 1/
Other resources: real cost for loans signed
(see Annex 11); 8% for other long-term resources
5) Average return on short-term investments - 6.5%
Average return on equity investments: 5%
6)  Provisions for Losses  - 2% of annual increase of total portfolio
7)  Admiistrative expenses  (excluding depreciation) have been projected to
increase by 25% in FY-75, and conservatively
by 10% later on.
A As =m January 1976, the average interest on discountable loans, and the
average cost of discountable funds may start to increase above the figures
:eted; however, it is expected that the spread to BIDI on discountable
o :-ons will not be modified: thus the effect on profits would be nil.
7p- 



ANNEX l4
Page 2 of 2
PROJECTIONS
(CFAF Million)
FY-75    FY-76    FY-77    FI-78     FY-79
*         Approvals
Long-term loans           2,672    2,800    2,750    3,000    3,300
Medium-term loan          1,556    1,500    1,450    1,600    1,800
(of which redis-
countable)              (840)    (760)   (840)    (920)  (1,000)
Equity Investments          140      100      100      100      100
2/
Total             4, 368    4,400    4,300   4, 700    5,100
Disbursenents
Long-term loans           2,570    2,781    2,752    2,860    3,070
Medium-term loans         1,684    1,844    1,470    1,640    1,780
(of which discount-
able)                  (M5h)    (982)    (808)    (888)    (968)
Equity investments          159      100      100      100      lOO
4,413    4,725    4,322    4,600   41,950
1/ Commitments take place one week after approval, since BIDI send, immediately
after approval, td the borrower a letter detailing the conditions of the
Loan; the client must answer within 8 days. The establishment of a formal
contract takes an average of 3 months.
2/ of which loans financed,under the, CIDA line of credit: 1320 for the two years.
DFCD
August 6, 1975



Annex 15
BANQUE IVOIRIEN'NE DE DEVELOPPENT INUISTRIEL
Projected Income Statements
(CFAF million)
(FY ending September 30)
FY-74     FY-75     FY-76     FY-77      FY-78     FY-79
INCOME
Interest on loan             670        878      11)44     1395       1608      1806
Interest on short-
term investments           12         15         6         5          2         3
Dividends                      1         29        31        41         41        31
Other                          33        30        30         30        30        30
Total                716        952      1211      1)471      1681      1870
CRARG;S
Administrative expenses      1)47       188       213        243       276       309
(of which depreciation)       (20)      (20)      (20)      (20)       (20)      (20)
Financial charges             342       442       585        706       803       904
Provision for losses            9        87        56        )40        32        32
498       717       854       989       1111      1245
Earnings before tax           218       235       357        492       570       625
Tax                            54        65        70         80        84        90
Net profits                   16)4      170       287       )412       486       535
Allocated to
Reserves                       90        86       192        307       381       420
Dividends                      74        84        95       105        105       105
j/ Interest received is calculated net of TPS tax.
MFCD
August 6, 1975



ANNEX 16
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
Projected Balance Sheets as of September 30
(in CFAF million)
ASSETS                         1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979
(aEctual)
Current assets (net)          465       123       134         58        22       110
Portfolio
Long-term loans         6,627      8,347    10,178    11,830    13,290    14,660
Medium-term loans        2,o55     3,036     3,864      4,114     4,372     4,665
(of which discount-
able)              (1,398)   (1,932)   (2,159)   (2,302)   (2,433)   (2,596)
Equity investments         507       666       766        866       766       666
Total          9,189    12,049    14,808    16,810    18,428    19,991
(less provision)       _(153)       (240)     (296)      (336)     (368)     (400)
Total (net)    9,036    11,849    14,512    16,474   18,060    19,591
Fixed assets (net)            139       150       150        150       150       150
Total assets                9_640    12,122    14,796    16,682    18,232    19,851
LLOILITIES
Share capital              1,050      1,050    1,050     1,050       1,050     1,050
Reserves                      314       418      646     1,005       1,422     1,878
Total          1,369     1,468    1,696      2,055      2,472      2,928
Government loan             1,250     1,250    1,250      1,250      1,250     1,250
Borrowings:
local                    3,,410    4,307    3,734      3,577      3,310     3,173
foreign                  3,611     5,097    8,116     9,800      11,200    12,500
Total                    7,021     9,404   11,850    13,377      14,510    15,673
Total liabilities       9,640    12,122   116796    1            18,232    19,851
IFCD
August 6, 1975



ANNEX 17
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INIEJSTRIEL
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(CFAF million)
(FY ending September 30)
SOURCES                        FY-75      FY-76     FY-77     FY-78    F_-79
Net profit plus provi-        290       399        524       574        613
sion for losses, alloca-
tion to FNI, and
depreciation
Loan collection             1,513     1,984      2,320     2,782      3,187
(of which discountable)      (420)     (665)      (665)     (755)      (805)
Drawndown on borroi*ngO:
Local                    2,067       892        808       888        968
Foreign                  1,611     3,351      2,086     1,819      1,772
Sales of shares                             ___.          2QO        200
Total sources               5)481     6,626      5,738     6,263      6,740
USES
Disbursements onl loans     4 2h54    4,625    4t,222      4,500      43850
(discountabib)              t6S4)      (892)      (808)     (888)      (968)
Disbursement of equit*        159       100        100       100        100
investments
Repayment on borro*ings
Local                    1,170     1,465        965     1,155      1,105
(BCEAO)                   (420)     (665)      (665)     (755)      (805)
Foreign                    125       332        402       419        472
Dividends                      84        95        105       105        105
Fixed assets                   3)         20        20         20        20
5,823     6,637     5,814      6,299     6,852
Variation of net
current assets            (342)       11        (76)      (36)        88
IFCD
September 10, 1975



ANNEX 18
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVNLOPPEMENT LIDUSTRIEL
Estimated Disbursement Schedule (CY)
($foGo)
1976
3rd Quarter                                   200
4th Quarter                                   400
1977
1st Quarter                                   600
2nd Quarter                                   800
3rd Quarter                                 1000
4th Quarter                                  1000
1978
1st Quarter                                   800
2nd Quarter                                   800
3rd Quarter                                  600
4th Quarter                                   600
1979
1st Quarter                                   400
2nd Quarter                                  400
3rd Quarter                                   200
4th Quarter                                   200
Total   8000
DFCD
September 10, 1975



