CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1177 IVC
Loan Agreement
(BIDI Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
DATED DECEMBER 12, 1975
S


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1177 IVC
Loan Agreement
(BIDI Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
DATED DECEMBER 12, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
(hereinafter called the Borrower), a banking institution established and operating
under the laws of the Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
*       Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b)
of this Agreement.
(b)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan in an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c)   "Investment Enterprise" means an ente-rise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.


﻿4
(d)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.
(e)   "CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f)   "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated February 10,
1965, as amended to the date of this Agreement and as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(g)   "Statement of Objectives and Management Policy" means the general
statement of lending and investments policy approved by the Directors of the
Borrower on February 11, 1965, as amended to the date of this Agreement and
as the same may be amended from time to time.
(h)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower
or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(i)   "Government   Loan  Agreement"   means the    agreement dated
February 11, 1965 between the Guarantor and the Borrower providing a loan to
the Borrower in the amount of one billion two hundred and fifty million CFA
Francs (CFAF 1,250,000,000); and "Government Loan" means the loan provided
therein.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000.000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project or,
if the Bank shall so agree, for expenditures required to be made by the Borrower
for an Investment Project, to finance the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal
is requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which


﻿5
the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account. For the
purposes of the foregoing, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be authorized
by the Bank in respect of the following expenditures under a sub-loan or
investment:
(A)   100% of foreign expenditures; and
(B)   35% of local expenditures for civil works or such other percentage
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, such percentage representing
the estimated foreign expenditure component.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i)        the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
or services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Guarantor; provided, however, that
in the case of goods or services supplied from the territory of
a country where CFA Francs are legal tender, expenditures in
CFA Francs for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditurcs": and
(ii)       the term   "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed
the sum of (i) $200,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such
Investment Project or (ii) $2,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit
sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined
by the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, or in respect
of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before the date of
this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and
information required by Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit


﻿6
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request and information required
by Section 2.03(b).
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan)
or an investment to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of
the Investment Enterprise, an appraisal of the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan), the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment,
including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the
Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment, and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before December 31, 1977.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April I and October I in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule I to this


﻿7
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which have been approved or
authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of
the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on April I and October 1 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule I
shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower,
the Bolrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule I to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08
*       of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b)   Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturitis of the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid
on account of such investment.*
(c)   Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE IHl
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and resources in the Republic of the Ivory Coast
as will contribute to the economic and social development of the country. The
Project consists in the financing of specific development projects through loans
*    Any prepayments will be reflected in the amendments to the Amortization
Schedule (Schedule 1) to be made as provided in Section 2.08.


﻿8
to and investments in enterprises in the Republic of the Ivory Coast, in furtherance
of the corporate purposes of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement
of Objectives and Management Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that
it shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require
that: (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice,
and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower;


﻿9
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by the Borrower in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation upon the foregoing Section, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes that:
(a)   The amortization schedule for each sub-loan shall provide for: (i)
repayment terms of not more than 15 years including an appropriate grace period;
and (ii) approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments
of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent
payments of principal;
(b)   The principal amount of each sub-loan to be repaid shall be the amount
in the currency of the Guarantor equivalent, at the date of repayment, to the
amount repayable in any currency by the Borrower, on account of its withdrawals
from the Loan Account for any such sub-loan; and
(c)   The Investment Enterprise shall pay interest on the principal amount
outstanding of each sub-loan at the rate of not less than 11% per annum.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and
the sub-loans and investments.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Government Loan Agreement and other agreements under which funds have been
lent or otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect of assigning,
or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any such
agreement.
Section 3.06. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any subsidiary, the
Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.


﻿10
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) take such measures as shall be necessary
or convenient for the improvement of its economic analysis of Investment Projects
and its financial planning in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank;
and (b) furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on the level of resources available
to the Borrower for the carrying out of its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank. as soon as availabic but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank 'shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt, except as otherwise
currently reported or disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that. except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or any subsidiary
as security for any debt. such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of. and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or of any subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security


﻿11
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall
be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgment
of the Bank, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
*         the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than six
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of the currency of the Guarantor debt payable in foreign currency, such
valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
foreign currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower
for the purposes of servicing such debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of the Borrower and subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt


﻿12
owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower
or to any other subsidiary; and (ii) the amounts of the Government Loan referred
to in paragraph (e)(ii) of this Section.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of: (i) the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of the Borrower and subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary
in the Borrower or any other subsidiary; and (ii) such amounts of the Government
Loan as shall be repayable after October 1, 1993.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank
as shall be necessary to protect itself against the exchange risk on the currencies
used in its lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) take all necessary action to raise its rate of interest on the principal amount
outstanding of all long-term loans made after the date of this Agreement to not
less than 11  per annum; and (b) exchange views with the Bank, from time to
time and in any event. promptly upon any increase of the discount rate applicahle
in the territory of the Guarantor, on the appropriateness of such interest rate.
Section 4.09. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and subsidiaries.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreernnt and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have


﻿13
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Statutes which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(c)   a change shall have been made in the Statement of Objectives and
Management Policy which will materially and adversely affect the financial
condition or operations of the Borrower;
(d)   a resolution shall have been passed or any action shall have been taken
for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Borrower or for the suspension of
its operations; and
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall havc bccn created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
situation or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower:
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days from the date said event
shall occur.


﻿14
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of March 11, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                             440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banque Ivoirienne de
D6veloppement Industriel
B.P. 4470
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:                        Telex:
BIDI BANK                             484 Abidjan
Abidjan
Ivory Coast


﻿15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BANQUE IVOIRIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
By /s / Alphonse Diby
Authorized Representative


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)**
April 1, 1979                                          305,000
October 1. 1979                                        320,000
April 1, 1980                                          330,000
October 1, 1980                                        345,000
April 1, 1981                                          360,000
October 1, 1981                                        375,000
April 1, 1982                                          390,000
October 1, 1982                                        410,000
April 1, 1983                                          425,000
October 1, 1983                                        445,000
April 1, 1984                                          460,000
October 1, 1984                                        480,000
April 1, 1985                                          500,000
October 1, 1985                                        525,000
April 1, 1986                                          545,000
October 1, 1986                                        570,000
April 1, 1987                                          595.000
October 1, 1987                                        620,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than two years                             1-1/2%
before maturity
More than two years but not                         2-3/4%
more than four years
before maturity
Mre than four years but not                        5-3/4%
more than eight years
before maturity
More than eight years but not                           7%
more than ten years
before maturity
More than ten years                                 8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(2)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall
have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


