                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 29098-GU

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-44070)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50.0 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                                                 FOR A

                          SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT




                                              June 22, 2004




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 28, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Guatemalan Quetzal (GTQ)
                                   $1.00 GTQ = US$ 0.122926
                                     US$ 1.00 = $8.135 GTQ

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 ­    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
COP       Community Organization Program
Danida    Danish Agency for Development Assistance
EFIS      FIS Entities (Entidades del Fondo de Inversión Social)
ESMAP     Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme
FIS       Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social)
FONAPAZ  National Peace Fund (Fondo Nacional para la Paz)
FSDC     Solidarity Fund for Community Development (Fondo de Solidaridad para el Desarrollo
         Comunitario)
GOG      Government of Guatemala
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
INFOM    National Institute for Municipal Development (Instituto Nacional de Fomento
          Municipal)
KfW       German Credit Institute for Reconstruction
LIB       Limited International Bidding
MAGA      Ministry of Agriculture
MIS       Management Information System
MOE       Ministry of Education
MCTOP     Ministry of Public Works
MOH       Ministry of Health
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non-governmental Organization
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PROGENIAL Program on Gender Mainstreaming in World Bank-financed Projects in Central America
PRONADE   National School Autonomy Program of Ministry of Education (Programa Nacional de
         Educación)
SEGEPLAN Secretaría General de Planificación y Programación
UNDP     United Nations Development Program




                                Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                             Country Director      Jane Armitage
                              Sector Manager       Helena Ribe
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Manuel Salazar

                                        GUATEMALA
                                           GT FIS II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 42

Project ID: P040198                                                  Project Name: GT FIS II
Team Leader: Manuel Salazar                                          TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: GT FIS II                                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-44070
   Country/Department: GUATEMALA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General education sector (50%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (13%); Other social services (13%); Health (12%);
                            Roads and highways (12%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation
                            and civic engagement (S); Indigenous peoples (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/16/1998                                     Effective: 01/01/1999                03/02/1999
     Appraisal: 08/14/1998                                         MTR: 01/01/2001                  07/27/2000
      Approval: 11/12/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA/FIS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              S. Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Helena Ribe                                    Xavier E. Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Manuel Salazar                                 Juliana Weissman
ICR Primary Author:             Manuel Salazar; Kathryn Johns
                                Swartz; Jorge C. Barrientos


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Government of Guatemala (GOG) created the Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social,
FIS) in 1993 to improve the living conditions of the poor and extremely poor populations in rural areas,
mainly indigenous peoples, through the provision of basic social and economic infrastructure and services.
FIS was established to deliver subprojects quickly and efficiently and redress the lack of public and private
investment in basic infrastructure in the poorest rural areas.

To continue the World Bank's support of the Government's poverty alleviation strategy and its agreements
under the Peace Accords of 1996, the Second Social Investment Fund Project (FIS II) was prepared and
approved in November 1998.[1] World Bank support was coordinated with other FIS partners particularly
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (KfW).

The FIS II Project continued support for the institution's core mission of financing basic social and
economic infrastructure for the poorest communities, and it also introduced new initiatives to strengthen
FIS's decentralization strategy; build the capacity of community-based organizations and local
governments to define problems, prioritize needs, plan and implement subprojects; and foster sustainability
by developing arrangements for subproject operations and maintenance. The main objectives of the project
were to:

(a)     Provide high priority social and economic infrastructure and complementary goods and services;
(b)     Provide training and consultant services to support capacity building and project sustainability in
        the communities; and
(c)     Strengthen the central and regional offices of FIS; ensure closer coordination with local
        governments and line ministries; carry out ex-post and impact evaluations of completed subprojects
        and beneficiary assessments; and develop a coherent framework for the social safety net.

Considering the economic and social situation in Guatemala at the time FIS II was approved, the objectives
were clear, realistic, and important for the country. Poverty in Guatemala was (and continues to be)
widespread and extreme poverty was concentrated in rural areas (inhabited predominately by indigenous
groups--more than half of the total population) and was skewed toward women. The lingering effects of
the prolonged conflict and geographic isolation compounded the poverty affecting these communities.

FIS II was consistent with the Government's priorities to sustain peace by reducing extreme poverty and
addressing the exclusion that contributed to the conflict. The Program of the Government of the Republic
of Guatemala 1996-2000 prioritized the alleviation of poverty through social investment. To continue the
successful approach used in FIS I, the second phase was designed to provide support to the line ministries
in the provision of social and economic infrastructure and services to the rural areas and complement the
investments by municipal governments.

The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Guatemala (18036-GU, July 1998) focused on
building an inclusive nation to help ensure peace. FIS II supported the CAS objectives by targeting the
social safety net to the poorest members of society to help reduce poverty and exclusion and introducing
community training and attention to sustainability in FIS's operations to help build social cohesion and
strengthen decentralized decision-making and implementation. FIS II complemented the work of the
National Peace Fund (FONAPAZ) by reaching areas not included in the former conflict areas, which was
supported separately by the World Bank under the Reconstruction and Local Development Project (Loan
4379-GT).



                                                     - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised. However, in October 1998, just before the loan was approved,
Guatemala was hit by Hurricane Mitch, which caused heavy rains, flooding, and landslides, particularly in
the northeastern area of the country. In agreement with the Bank, FIS immediately mobilized to finance
emergency reconstruction subprojects on a temporary basis in the most heavily affected municipalities, the
vast majority of which overlapped with extremely poor areas. Because this financing coincided with the
project's objectives, this approach was approved at the Director level and reported to the Executive
Directors as part of the updates on the Bank's response to Hurricane Mitch.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components financed with a US$50.0 million IBRD Loan (including front-end fee of
US$0.5), GOG counterpart of US$7.0 million and an estimated beneficiary contribution of US$7.0 million
for a total cost of US$64.0 million.

Component 1. Community-based Subprojects (US$57.0 million; IBRD US$46.5 million). This
component would support a wide range of community-based demand-driven social and economic
subprojects, including pre-investment feasibility studies for small-scale infrastructure and services
subprojects, such as schools, health posts, water supply, sanitation and latrine systems, bridges and access
roads, cultural heritage and productive activities, and subprojects requested by communities (other than
those on a negative list agreed with the Bank). FIS would develop targeting and selection criteria and
procedures to guide financing decisions on these subprojects and other subprojects agreed with the Bank.
Government counterpart funds would be used to finance salaries and other operating costs of the FIS.

Component 2. Community Training (US$2.0 million; IBRD US$1.5 million). This component would
provide training linked to individual subprojects for beneficiaries, local staff of line ministries, and
municipalities in: participatory planning, problem identification, subproject prioritization, subproject
implementation and supervision, subproject operations and maintenance, cost recovery where appropriate,
and environmental and gender issues.

Component 3. Institutional Development (US$5.0 million; IBRD US$1.5 million). This component
would support the decentralization of FIS operations, help improve the quality of subprojects, and enhance
FIS's responsiveness to beneficiary communities. It would finance training and consultant assistance in
financial and information management, participatory and strategic planning, environmental concerns,
community maintenance of subprojects, and efforts to increase the participation of women in FIS
subprojects. For decentralization, the component would finance staff training in all 23 departmental
offices, Management Information System (MIS) improvements in support of decentralization, and related
staff training; annual external ex-post reviews and procurement audits of completed subprojects,
beneficiary assessments, and a project impact evaluation at the conclusion of the project; a modest amount
of MIS and other office equipment, and vehicles for subproject supervision and decentralized operations;
and FIS and interagency coordination and collaboration with Bank-supported sector work on poverty.

Each of these offices was equipped with a Pentium 3 computer and a laser-printer and some form of
transportation, in most cases a motorcycle. As a minimum they are staffed with a manager or submanager,
a promotion officer and a monitoring executive. The functions delegated to these offices are : (a)
promotion of community-level projects and relations with municipal authorities and local sector leadership;
(b) acceptance of requests; (c) participation in the starting and completion of works, and monitoring of the
execution of projects.




                                                      - 3 -

The project design was linked to the objectives described above and addressed the most significant issues
facing the GOG in terms of expanding and improving social and economic infrastructure and goods and
services to the poorest communities. Given the country's needs and the experience of the FIS I Project, FIS
II was designed to support substantial investment in small social and economic infrastructure and to
introduce activities to enhance FIS's responsiveness to local communities. This would be achieved by
strengthening FIS's decentralization strategy and introducing greater community participation in decision
making and subproject implementation. The inclusion of community participation activities was new to
FIS management practices and, in retrospect, additional resources could have been allocated to consolidate
this approach. During the first few years of implementation, participation and community training were not
an institutional priority within FIS, but, some improvements were achieved by the end of the operation.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised. Yet, to address the need for emergency reconstruction after
Hurricane Mitch (in agreement with the Bank), FIS financed emergency reconstruction subprojects on a
temporary basis in the affected areas under streamlined procedures (see Section 4.2).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is considered satisfactory. There was no QAG review of this project. The
project was consistent with the Government's sector policies and its poverty alleviation strategy and the
Bank's CAS. The project design reflected FIS's focus on financing basic social and economic
infrastructure, with the introduction of a relatively small amount of financing for community training and
organizational strengthening to improve overall effectiveness and sustainability. Full community
participation in the subproject cycle was slow to be integrated, mainly because it involved major
adjustments between FIS I and FIS II, requiring a drastic change in the operational rationale of the project
and in management practices. The Bank also may have overestimated the capacity of FIS at that time to
fully incorporate this approach as part of its operational mainstream.

Given the project's targeting of the poorest of the poor, mainly the indigenous communities living in the
most isolated rural areas, preparation included comprehensive social, indigenous, and gender assessments.
The Bank also arranged for a Japanese PHRD preparation grant (TF029721) to help the Government and
FIS carry out studies on: the needs and targets for social sector investment; the poverty targeting and sector
prioritization; the role of NGOs; the special needs of indigenous groups, women, and children; and the
content and impact of community capacity building programs. The project design also benefited from the
Bank's experience with social funds worldwide and the lessons learned from FIS I and other social funds in
Guatemala, including FONAPAZ, and addressed issues related to:

Subproject cycle. To ensure that FIS could facilitate the participation of the poorest communities (with
limited institutional capacity and subproject design skills), FIS streamlined its subproject cycle and
prepared new operations manuals. Also, rather than using a subproject menu, a negative list for the
subprojects was agreed during negotiations, which provided greater flexibility to respond to the
communities' needs.

Indigenous peoples and community participation. The project satisfied the requirements of the Bank's
Indigenous Peoples Policy (O.D. 4.20) since FIS resources would be targeted to the poorest rural areas
with a majority indigenous population. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) noted that community
participation during preparation was uneven and varied depending on the level of community organization
in each area, degree of isolation, and condition of the roads. The social assessment recommended
community training and organizational strengthening for communities. By using this approach,
communities could learn about and assume responsibilities regarding operations and maintenance for the



                                                       - 4 -

projects they would undertake. They were asked to participate in the FIS Entities (Entidades del Fondo de
Inversión Social, EFIS), which were a requirement for communities to receive financing.

Poverty targeting. FIS enhanced its poverty targeting with the development of a Municipal Poverty Map
based on five variables measured in the Unsatisfied Basic Needs (from 1994 census) used to rank the 330
municipalities, establish five municipal poverty categories, and identify the most deprived communities
within each municipality. FIS also focused its efforts on 18 "micro-regions," consisting of 63
municipalities with the highest poverty levels and the Community Organization Program (COP) actively
worked in these areas.

Inter-institutional coordination and sustainability. FIS developed interagency agreements with the
Ministries of Health, Education, Agriculture, and Communication, Transport, and Public Works prior to
effectiveness. These agreements were established to ensure that line agencies had the ability and
commitment to fund recurrent costs not covered by beneficiary communities.

Decentralization. The planned decentralization of FIS would delegate more decisionmaking authority to
the departmental regional offices and allow these offices to respond to local conditions, including language
and cultural differences in the indigenous communities.

Gender. A gender assessment was carried out to identify ways to ensure greater attention to gender in the
subproject cycle. The assessment identified the limited participation of women, particularly in
decisionmaking, which is exacerbated by illiteracy or speaking only their indigenous language. The
assessment recommended ways to facilitate women's participation with attention to gender in the
Community Organization Program (training in social organization), inclusion of specific monitoring
indicators, training of FIS staff, and recruitment of women in the regional offices.

Environmental Assessment. It was determined that this project would have no significant environmental
risks. FIS II included a negative list to prohibit financing of subprojects that would involve involuntary
resettlement or contamination or alternation of water flows of international waterways. FIS also developed
standard safety and environmental procedures for subproject implementation, which were reviewed by the
Bank and included in the Operations Manual.

Project appraisal appropriately identified the main risks that FIS II may face during project implementation
and how these had been addressed in project design, including: lack of political support to continue FIS
beyond May 2001 (loan agreement included a dated covenant specifying presentation of bill to Congress to
extend FIS and/or adequate arrangements to carry out project if not presented); lack of absorptive capacity
of FIS (institutional development component included training and orientation for FIS staff); pressure to
produce quantity at the expense of quality (updating of Operational Manual, staff training, contracting
technical staff, and regular subproject monitoring); FIS's commitment to environmental issues (inclusion of
environmental assessment mechanisms in Operations Manual, staff training, monitoring of subproject
portfolio); and the commitment of communities to maintenance of completed subprojects (incorporation of
community training activities with participatory subproject planning and execution).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's overall performance is considered satisfactory. FIS achieved its objectives of supporting the
Government in its poverty alleviation efforts by financing the expansion of coverage and improvement in
quality of basic social and economic infrastructure for the poorest populations in rural areas, particularly



                                                       - 5 -

the indigenous communities. After Hurricane Mitch caused damage in the northeast region, FIS also
efficiently executed emergency reconstruction subprojects during the first two years of implementation.
Full integration of the community capacity building initiatives in FIS's overall operations was the weakest
aspect of project implementation.

Social and economic infrastructure. FIS significantly increased the coverage and quality of basic social
and economic infrastructure in priority sectors by financing education, health, water supply and sanitation,
transportation, productive, environmental, and empowerment subprojects. During the first two years of
project execution (1999 and 2000), FIS disbursed 88 percent of the loan. This high level of disbursement
was partly due to the emergency subprojects resulting from Hurricane Mitch and the imminent elections at
that time--Government had a strong incentive to execute many subprojects and show tangible results.

An Impact Evaluation, based on qualitative research and field visits, was carried out in 2001 on a sample
of IBRD, KfW, and IDB-financed subprojects. The outcomes of this study are still relevant and no ex-post
evaluation is planned for FIS II. Although Bank staff had indications that this study did not adequately
reflect some negative externalities at the community and local government level, it did acknowledge some of
the positive aspects of the program, particularly its effective targeting of the poor. As described in greater
detail below, in Section 4.2 and Annex 3, this evaluation showed that FIS effectively targeted the rural
areas of the country and those municipalities, departments, and regions with the highest levels of poverty.
The use of micro-regions was effective in targeting the most vulnerable groups. FIS's investments
addressed the priorities of the communities, the services were being used, and the communities have
benefited from the investment. Infrastructure quality was satisfactory, but in some cases maintenance was
lacking.
Although employment generation was not an explicit objective, FIS's actions, particularly in infrastructure,
had a significant impact on rural employment. It is estimated that about 733,000 person months of
unskilled labor were created, without considering skilled labor, technical or professional workers, or the
creation of employment in the production of materials.

Community capacity building and project sustainability. FIS's Community Organization Program
(COP) carried out community training in the 18 micro-regions early on and later expanded it to other
regions. Overall however, FIS was slow to mainstream and scale-up the training initiatives for the entire
portfolio due to a combination of factors, including: the relatively small amount of funds for these
activities; the rapid execution of works in the first two years; and little incentive and institutional
commitment for FIS to expand these activities beyond the COP Program. The 2001 Impact Evaluation did
note that the COP was effective in achieving greater capacity in the beneficiary organizations in the
microregions. Yet, according to this report, greater attention could have been paid to the strengthening of
community-based organizations and local governments, particularly with respect to operations and
maintenance of the subprojects, and local authorities could have been more effectively involved in the
project cycle. Towards the end of implementation FIS began to mainstream organizational strengthening
projects for communities and the project did set a solid basis for greater emphasis on community
strengthening. Currently, under an IDB-financed project ("Pro-Oriente"), FIS is implementing an approach
that incorporates many of the COP's positive characteristics, including greater collaboration with local
authorities.

Institutional development. FIS enhanced its institutional development capacity through training,
workshops, study tours, and consultancies. There were some advances made regarding decentralization.
FIS's management and administration capacity was improved with a streamlined information system and
better trained managers and staff. The Impact Evaluation mentioned above was carried out in 2001 and it
helped to improve FIS's effectiveness, targeting, and monitoring and evaluation performance.


                                                       - 6 -

Achievement of Social Objectives

Poverty Targeting. FIS II was a Program of Targeted Intervention and the poverty alleviation objective
was substantially achieved. Resources allocated to municipalities during the project implementation period
had a 0.7 correlation coefficient with poverty incidence (Impact Evaluation, 2001).

The percentage of the total amount and number of subprojects in the five municipal poverty categories was
estimated at appraisal and the actual percentages are in Table 1 and Graph 1. The two poorest municipal
categories received 48 percent of the total subproject investment and 46 percent of the number of
subprojects, both slightly above the target of 40 percent. The biggest difference from the appraisal
estimate is in the Medium Poverty Category C with less investment than expected, but there was more
investment in the Severe and Relative Poverty Categories (B and D respectively).

       Table 1: Investment by Municipal Poverty Category (IBRD and Government counterpart)
Municipal                   Estimate of       Actual (%) of       Estimate % of              Actual % of
Poverty          Investment in PAD             Investment      Number of Projects       Number of Projects
Category                       (%)                                   in PAD
A. Extreme                     20.0               20.5                 20.0                      18.4
B. Severe                      20.0               27.5                 20.0                      27.6
Total                          40.0               48.0                 40.0                      46.0
C. Medium                      40.0               23.4                 40.0                      24.8
D. Relative                    12.0               20.2                 12.0                      21.2
E. Low                          8.0                8.4                  8.0                      8.0
Subtotal                       60.0               52.0                 60.0                      54.0




                                   Graph 1: Municipal Poverty Categories and Actual
                                 Subproject Investment compared to Appraisal Estimate



                            40                                                Percent of Number
                                                                              of Subprojects
                            30
                                                                              Percent of Amount
                            20                                                Contracted
                     Percent
                            10                                                Appraisal Estimate
                                                                              for both categories
                              0
                                   A     B        C      D      E
                                        Municipal Category




An analysis by per capita amounts based on the estimated number of beneficiaries shows the highest per
capita amount in the less poor Category E (fewer subprojects), with the next highest levels in the Severe
and Extremely Poor Categories (B and A respectively) (see Table 2). It should be noted that within the
Low Poverty Category E, FIS financed projects for the poorest rural communities in those municipalities.



                                                         - 7 -

               Table 2: Subproject Investments Per Capita by Municipal Poverty Category
                                              (IBRD and Government counterpart)
Poverty            Number of              Actual number        Actual cost of          Number of     Per Capita
category         Municipalities           of subprojects        subprojects            beneficiaries Investment
                                                               (US$million)            (thousands)     (US$)
A. Extreme         54 (16.6%)                   543                 13.1                    886         14.8
B. Severe          90 (27.6%)                   818                 18.0                   1,128        16.0
C. Medium          76 (23.3%)                   722                 15.4                   1,256        12.3
D. Relative        80 (24.5%)                   620                 13.4                   1,089        12.3
E. Low              26 (8%)                     233                  5.6                    299         18.8
TOTAL             326 (100%)                   2,936                65.5*                  4,658
* The total is the amount "contracted" with IBRD or counterpart funds. The amount was subject to exchange rate
variations during the life of the project, the VAT paid by FIS and an additional payments by FIS equivalent to
US$1.65 millions to cover problem projects and other overhead costs.

FIS allocated approximately US$1.9 million for emergency subprojects to address the damage caused by
Hurricane Mitch. These investments were in the poorest municipalities--about 82 percent of the
subprojects, 92 percent of the beneficiaries, and 85 percent of the investment were in the three poorest
municipal categories (see Graph 2).

   Graph 2: Percentage of Mitch Projects, Beneficiaries and Amounts Financed, by Municipalities
                                          broken down by Rural Poverty Category


                           EMERGENCY INVESTMENT DUE TO MITCH, LOAN IBRD 4407-GU


                                        60
                                                                                No. of Projects
                                        50                                      No. of Benef's

                                        40                                      Investment


                                        30

                                        20
                              PERCENTAGE
                                        10

                                         0
                                           Extreme  Severe    Regular   Relative     Low
                                          Poverty A Poverty B Poverty C Poverty D Poverty E

                                                   MUNICIPAL POVERTY CATEGORY




Indigenous Peoples. The objective related to indigenous peoples development was partially achieved. FIS
was effective in delivering both funds and projects to indigenous communities to support their social and
economic development. About 145 municipalities in Guatemala are majority indigenous (Maya, Garífuna,
or Xinca) and the remaining 162 are majority non-indigenous. As a result of focusing on the rural areas,
which have higher concentrations of indigenous peoples, FIS effectively benefited the indigenous
communities (see Table 3). There is also no evidence that community subproject implementation in




                                                             - 8 -

indigenous areas was carried out systematically in detriment of will or cultural traditions. However, the
community capacity building activities, particularly on operations and maintenance, were less effective (see
Section 4.2). Overall, there were about 2,358,387 beneficiaries in the majority indigenous municipalities,
about 54 percent of the total number of beneficiaries. In future projects, FIS should continue adjusting its
methodologies, implementation mechanisms and targeting systems to be consistent with the cultural and
ethnic dimensions of the country, given that several Peace Accords particularly stress these issues.

                     Table 3: Subprojects and Investments in Indigenous Communities
   Municipality type     Number of      Indigenous     Appraisal       Actual      Appraisal       Actual
                        municipalities  Population     Estimate      Percent of    Estimate      Percent of
                                           (%)        Percent of    Subprojects   Percent of     Investment
                                                      Subprojects                 Investment
 Majority Indigenous         145           83.2          30.0          49.0         30.0            50.0
 Municipalities
 Majority                    162           13.6          60.0          51.0         60.0            50.0
 Non-indigenous
 Municipalities
 Municipalities without      24             0              0             0
 projects
 TOTAL                       331                                       100.0                       100.0


The Impact Evaluation confirms the above data--regions with higher concentrations of indigenous people
(based on number of indigenous language speakers) received comparatively more funding than other areas.
This study noted that FIS's coverage in majority indigenous municipalities was 54 percent of the number of
subprojects and 49 percent of the total investment.

Gender. The objective related to gender equity was substantially achieved. FIS addressed gender equity
through three mechanisms: (a) encouraging the participation of women in the community planning sessions
and requiring the EFIS to have a certain proportion of female members; (b) financing subprojects designed
to reduce the workload on families, such as the improved stoves, water provision, and preventive health
subprojects; and (c) financing specific subprojects targeted to women to provide opportunities for new
occupations and roles, including agroforestry. About 68 of the Local Development Associations are made
up of men and women who participate on equal footing; about 49 of the community management
committees are made up of men and women, and there were 798 community meetings with equal and active
participation of men and women. FIS made significant advances with respect to including gender equity,
but it still faces the challenge of incorporating gender equity in the day-to-day operations and through the
development of operational tools.

FIS was responsive to the technical assistance on gender equity provided by the Program on Gender
Mainstreaming in World Bank-financed Projects in Central America Program (PROGENIAL).[2]
PROGENIAL worked with FIS to help promote the active participation of men and women in the EFIS,
particularly the participation of women in management positions. FIS trained community members on the
benefits of gender equity in the process of local development and created a system to monitor how they are
involved in project execution. A support network on gender equity was created with 52 facilitators and the
project established indicators with a gender perspective. PROGENIAL also helped support the institutional
development of FIS by providing gender equity training for FIS staff.

The 2001 Impact Evaluation noted that about 21 percent of the EFIS members were women, indicating that
there is improvement in gender inequality in the rural areas; however this level of participation could still
be improved. Internally in FIS' administrative structure when assessing the presence of women on the EFIS



                                                      - 9 -

board of directors, only 5 percent were women, indicating that women were still not involved in
decisionmaking.[3]

Environmental Objectives. The environmental objectives were partially achieved. The project
successfully supported the adoption of improved stoves (see Section 4.2), but should now focus on
providing stronger support for the development of environmentally sustainable or conservation-oriented
community subprojects. Although FIS routinely carries out environmental impact evaluation of the
projects it finances, the Impact Evaluation determined that only about less than 10% of the projects with
some degree of environmental impact had had a negative impact in the quality of life of beneficiaries.

Private Sector Development Objectives. The private sector objectives were substantially achieved. FIS
continued to help strengthen the local contracting and consulting industries through the provision of work
following technical and procurement criteria.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Community-based Subprojects. Satisfactory. FIS II played a substantial role in the
provision of good quality basic social and economic infrastructure to the poorest and most isolated, and
mainly indigenous, rural communities. FIS also rapidly implemented emergency reconstruction subprojects
to address damage to transportation infrastructure caused by Hurricane Mitch and within the first two
years, the majority of project funds were disbursed. FIS's performance during the last three years of
project implementation, however showed as there was a delay in completing problem subprojects mostly
due to contract management issues, and there were substantial delays in the delivery of an action plan to
complete the project. In order to allow for the completion of these subprojects, Government requested and
the Bank granted a six-month Closing Date extension.

Hurricane Mitch
It was estimated that over 40 percent of the transportation infrastructure in Guatemala was destroyed or
made inoperable by flooding caused by Hurricane Mitch. With the Bank's agreement, FIS immediately
responded to needs under retroactive financing until the declaration of effectiveness in March 1999. In
agreement with the Bank and on a temporary basis, FIS streamlined its procedures and used mainly direct
contracting and shopping procurement procedures for contracting the emergency subprojects. FIS invested
approximately US$1.9 million (IBRD and Government) to carry out the reconstruction of 32 bridges, 7
access roads, and 8 feasibility studies for transportation infrastructure projects constructed later with other
resources largely in areas with high concentrations of poverty. It is estimated that about 332,000 people
affected by the Hurricane in some of Guatemala's poorest municipalities benefited from these emergency
subprojects.

Output by Sector

FIS executed a total of 2,936 education, health, water and sanitation, transportation, productive,
environmental, and empowerment subprojects at a contracted cost of US$65.5 million (see Table 4),
beneficiary contributions of approximately US$6.4 million, and NGO and municipality contributions of
about US$0.8 million. During appraisal, there was no estimate of sector allocations due to the
demand-driven nature of the FIS investments and generally, the investments were coordinated with the
policies and resources of the associated line ministries. The largest number of subprojects was in the
education sector with 1,205 subprojects, more than twice the number in the next highest, the health sector.
The education sector also represented 35 percent of the total investment, followed by 18 percent in the
transportation sector.




                                                     - 10 -

              Table 4: Number and Cost of Subprojects by Sector (IBRD and Government)
 Sector                      Actual Number        Percent of       Actual Cost of      Percent of Actual
                              of Subprojects     Subprojects        Subprojects              Cost
                                                                    US$million)
 Education                        1,205              41.0                22.9                35.0
 Health                            565               19.2                7.7                 11.8
 Water and Sanitation              301               10.3                9.0                 13.7
 Productivity                      265                9.0                8.6                 13.1
 Transportation                    259                8.8                11.9                18.2
 Infrastructure
 Environment                       226                7.7                3.8                  5.8
 Empowerment                       115                4.0                1.6                  2.4
 TOTAL                            2,936             100.0                65.5                100.0
As shown in Table 5, FIS benefited approximately 4.7 million people. By far, the largest number of
                                                                      [4]


beneficiaries was in the health sector (60.8 percent) followed by education (14 percent), transportation (12
percent), water and sanitation (6 percent), empowerment (2.5 percent), productivity (2.4 percent), and
environment (2.3 percent). [5]Although most of the subprojects were carried out in the education sector,
there were more beneficiaries in the health sector because health posts serve a larger population.

                                 Table 5: Number of Beneficiaries by Sector
                Sector                              Number of Beneficiaries
                                                           (thousands)
               Health                                         2,833
               Education                                       671
               Transportation Infrastructure                   537
               Water and Sanitation                            282
               Empowerment (Component 2)                       115
               Productivity                                    113
               Environment                                     107
                TOTAL                                         4,658


The main outputs in each sector are detailed below:

Health Subprojects. The health subprojects provided a significant contribution to improving the health of
the poor rural population through:
    ·    269 health posts and 170 primary health care centers;
    ·    2,473 latrines;
    ·    Provision of medicine to 59 community pharmacies;
    ·    829 midwife training programs; and
    ·    1,330 training programs for health promoters or paramedical staff.

Education Subprojects. The education subprojects effectively contributed to the expansion of coverage
and improvements in the quality of the teaching environment. These actions were coordinated with the
Ministry of Education and implemented in areas with demand from the communities. The main
investments include:
    ·    587 schools in the rural sector with 1,477 rooms;
    ·    533 schools equipped with 127,470 seats;



                                                    - 11 -

    ·    Training and professional development of 193 teachers, 92 school directors, and the temporary
         contracting of 16 teachers until the Ministry could budget the positions; and
    ·    81 community libraries in municipalities.

Transportation Subprojects. The main investments in this sector included addressing damage to
infrastructure caused by Hurricane Mitch and connecting isolated municipalities to the municipal road
network. FIS financed:
    ·    44 access roads for a total distance of 245.7 kilometers;
    ·    103 bridges; and
    ·    87 feasibility studies for additional works.

Water and Sanitation. FIS expanded access to water supply and sanitation in rural areas and the needs in
this sector continue to be significant. The execution of these subprojects is the most complex area for FIS
due to the lack water sources, the absence of norms, and the difficulty in obtaining land to sink a well. FIS
executed the following subprojects:
    ·    119 feasibility studies with attention to environmental issues, given mountainous topography of the
         rural areas;
    ·    130 water supply projects with 15,217 family or community connections to the water system
         (acometidas);
    ·    18 sewerage projects with 4,095 acometidas; and
    ·    4 drainage systems.

Productivity Subprojects. FIS financed subprojects oriented to the transmission of new production
technologies for irrigation and non-traditional products. These subprojects included:
    ·    107 pre-feasibility studies on construction of training centers and irrigation schemes;
    ·    50 classrooms or workshops in 16 rural training centers and equipping of nine facilities;
    ·    69 mini-irrigation systems for 4,086 irrigated hectares;
    ·    40 centers for storage and primary processing (for the first time, farmers could manage their own
         products in the post-harvest and obtain an added value for the processing); and
    ·    138 months of instructor time to support the investment in processing capability.

Environment. FIS financed subprojects to both protect and conserve the environment, including:
    ·    78 public laundries (eliminating informal washing places in the rivers);
    ·    One pilot project for garbage management (due to lack of local norms, there was not much
         progress in this area);
    ·    27,428 improved stoves (see below);
    ·    Forestation or reforestation of 217 hectares (planting of 887,792 trees), with accompanying
         training; and
    ·    Development of eight agro-forestry projects to grow fruit trees, with accompanying training.




                                                     - 12 -

Improved Stoves. Guatemala is one of the few Latin American countries that has made progress on the
development of a woodstove design to modernize cooking with wood and reduce indoor air pollution from
wood smoke. The Plancha "improved" stove (similar to a cast iron stove top) has been shown to reduce
indoor air pollution and evidence shows substantial fuelwood savings. FIS is the largest provider of these
stoves in Guatemala and since 1993, has financed about 150,000 stoves. There is significant demand in the
communities for these stoves, both for economic and environmental reasons.
In 2003, the Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme (ESMAP)[6]financed a study on the costs
of the improved stoves promoted by the different stove programs in Guatemala, including FIS, with
interviews, field visits, and analysis of costs (Carneiro de Miranda, 2003). The study found that the stove
projects financed by FIS were successful since the beneficiaries were using the stoves. Indeed, the stoves
are often the most valuable item in the home and the beneficiaries, particularly women, take really good
care of them. In general, the stoves were well constructed and of good quality and durability, but there was
some expected wear and tear which for the most part did not affect stove operation. However, a sample of
FIS stove subprojects showed that FIS stoves were about 36 percent more expensive than stoves of similar
quality financed by other organizations in Guatemala. This higher cost can be explained in part by the
profit margin of the contractors that FIS uses to construct the stoves. FIS prefers to contract the stove
construction in order to stimulate the economy through market mechanisms. FIS also supervises the works
and provides training to the community. The study concluded that there is a demand and need for the
Plancha stoves in rural areas; the stoves work well and are popular among users, but they are expensive.
For future stove subprojects, the study recommended that FIS re-evaluate the stove cost structure, open up
to more participation of private contractors to induce competition, and assess the potential of new portable
stoves that may reduce costs.

Relative Quality and Cost
The quality of the completed works was generally satisfactory, but maintenance was often lacking, as
confirmed by field visits and the 2001 Impact Evaluation. Field visits during the Impact Evaluation noted
that 89 percent of the subprojects were reported to have good quality and over 90 percent were being used
by beneficiaries. Regarding maintenance however, only 63 percent of the subprojects visited had received
adequate or partially adequate maintenance, with 37 percent receiving inadequate maintenance.

The Impact Evaluation interviewed beneficiaries of the subprojects about the benefits of the subprojects
showing that nearly all believed that the needs addressed by the subprojects were the greatest priority in the
community, the subprojects benefit the population that has the most needs in the community, and the
subprojects are being used for what they were originally conceived. There was slightly less satisfaction,
but still positive responses, with the design and size of the subproject with 78 percent indicating satisfaction
and 22 percent believing the subproject could be improved.

FIS encountered delays in the implementation of about 99 subprojects, mainly due to non-completion by the
contractor. Most of these subprojects were in potable water supply and, in some cases, they had been
abandoned by the contractor for more than ten months. FIS's policy in these situations was to rescind the
contract, take legal action, and re-contract the subprojects so that the works would be completed. There
may also have been an attitude in FIS that these problem subprojects were started by the previous
administration and therefore, there was less incentive to spend the time and incur the transaction costs to
complete the subprojects. By the end of the project, only five of these problem subprojects remained
uncompleted, and two of them were feasibility studies that proved unnecessary.

The average subproject cost was the equivalent of US$22,300. The highest average subproject cost was for



                                                     - 13 -

the transportation subprojects at US$46,000, productivity at US$32,500, and water and sanitation
US$29,900 (see Table 4).

Component 2. Community Training. Unsatisfactory.

This component did not perform as expected for nearly the entire implementation period. The community
training activities were not fully integrated into FIS's overall operations until nearly the end of
implementation due to several reasons. First, the training activities were put on hold during the emergency
caused by the Mitch (which took place during the first year of the project). Also, since 1999-2000 was an
election year, the majority of the subprojects were nearly fully implemented during the first few years of the
project since the Government had incentives to improve implementation. As a result, once the emergency
had passed and the Government was ready to focus on training, most subproject resources had been
committed. Therefore, to a great extent, the community training component was carried out separately
from subproject implementation, undermining the component's potential impact.

Second, the community training activities were initially limited to those carried out by the COP in the
micro-regions; this eventually was expanded to other areas. FIS financed about 115 "Empowerment"
community organization and training subprojects in communities in the micro-regions attended by the COP.
As a result, capacity building for communities at the subproject level was not carried out in a regular basis.
In fact, the component was not mainstreamed in FIS's regular operations until toward the end of the project
where FIS began to incorporate some community training activities.

Regarding the capacity building initiatives carried out in the micro-regions, according to the Impact
Evaluation, nearly all beneficiaries involved in such activities, reported that the subprojects allowed for an
increase in collaboration with the committees, participation in meetings, and collaboration and participation
in resolving community problems. Based on interviews with beneficiaries, there was strong participation in
the identification and prioritization of needs and execution and functioning of the subprojects, but less
participation in the formulation, contracting, supervision, and operations and maintenance. Only about half
of the beneficiaries reported that the community associations requested the subprojects, assumed
responsibility during the next phases, and were responsible for operations and maintenance. There was
minimal involvement with the local municipal authorities--70 percent of beneficiaries reported that
municipal authorities were not involved in the subproject cycle.

While a less than acceptable effort was put in community organization, in the last two years FIS is making
very substantial progress in developing procedures and programs to include this factor in its project cycle.
Relevant experience has been achieved in PRORIENTE with KfW support and PRORIENTE with IDB
financing, thereby developing further a component initiated with BIRF with presently evaluated Project.
New community and municipal participation manuals have been tested and systematized, preparing FIS for
future operations.

Component 3. Institutional Development. Satisfactory. This component helped to strengthen FIS's
institutional development capacity through training in fundamental issues for its operation and new
initiatives related to decentralization and community participation. FIS's monitoring and evaluation system
was also improved and streamlined. This component financed equipment and supported FIS's participation
in conferences, seminars, workshops, field visits, and study tours.

Decentralization. The progress on decentralization was slow to start, but there has been important
progress towards the end of the project. FIS launched a regional assignment of resources based on Annual
Operating Plans and started to decentralize subproject approval through the Regional Committees (group of


                                                      - 14 -

the Departmental Delegates of a region and a representative of the central FIS office). However, this
process was not continued since it required modifications in FIS's administrative structure. FIS also
developed a Procurement Manual allowing local responsibility. Some of these decentralization efforts have
continued under the IDB-financed Pro-Oriente Project. Also, it should be noted that the deconcentration of
SIF was completed with the establishment of 22 Departmental Offices and four Suboffices. At a minimum
each office is staffed with a manager or submanager, a promotion officer and a monitoring specialist. The
functions delegated to these offices are : (a) promotion of community-level projects and relationships with
municipal authorities and local sector leadership; (b) acceptance of requests; (c) participation in the starting
and completion of works, and monitoring of the execution of subprojects. The Manuals of the
KfW-financed Quiché Program also included some decentralization processes including contracting of
works by the communities and a database of local contractors.

Training. FIS carried out 12 information exchanges (benefiting 33 staff members) with different social
funds and ministries in Latin America. FIS also carried out specific training or facilitated study tours for
its managers and technical staff on: development and municipal strengthening, microplanning, participation
and community organization, formulation and evaluation of projects, decentralization, supervision and
monitoring, gender, environment, income generation and productive projects, procurement and financial
administration, sustainability and maintenance.

Environmental Management. FIS uses an Environmental Monitoring System to specify evaluation criteria
and the mitigation of any negative environmental impacts. The 2001 Impact Evaluation found that of those
projects classified in the system as A or B (can generate negative impact) only less than 10 percent might
have caused significant negative impacts. During the field visits, the experts did not see any evidence that
the beneficiaries were made aware of the environmental issues as a part of the subprojects, and this should
be a future priority in screening subprojects. This is an area that could be improved. The experts did
highlight the environmental and economically beneficial impact of the improved stoves. As a result of a
visit to the Panama FIS, FIS replaced its Environmental Advisor with a fully staffed Environmental Unit.

Procurement. Beginning in 2001, the Bank detected some shortcomings with respect to procurement
management, which were confirmed by a procurement ex-post review in January 2002. Given this
persistent pattern, an Independent Procurement Review was carried out in June 2002. The Review did not
detect any significant problems, but suggested improvements in the archiving of documents and noted
insufficient internal quality control for procurement processes since each sector department handled their
own procurement. As these issues were detected late, the last year of the project, they were not adequately
addressed.

Financial Management. During the first years of implementation, the presentation of annual audits by FIS
were late. However, this issue was addressed and FIS was later able to comply with annual audits within
the period of time indicated in the Loan Agreement. FIS was also generally slow in complying with the
auditor's observations, which were usually related to procedural matters.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As mentioned in the PAD, because the project was expected to be fully demand-driven and was basically a
line of credit, no cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out at appraisal. None was carried
out at completion either. However, the Impact Evaluation carried out in 2001 provided substantial data
showing the basic justification of FIS's approach (see Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.



                                                      - 15 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was modest, as elaborated below:

Impact on Central Government. FIS developed good working relationships with the other ministries
through the cooperation agreements and in the case of health, education, and transport sectors,
inter-institutional commissions were established to exchange information and policies. FIS complied with
strategies and design standards pertaining to sector ministries, and went further in supporting sector efforts
to increase coverage, improve quality and implement innovative policies. As a result, the Ministry of
Education improved its school construction designs by including latrines and heat protection ceilings for
warm climate communities. It also incorporated the PRONADE model that FIS implemented in Quiche,
San Marcos and Alta Verapaz, as well as took note of the Unitary School Methodology supported by FIS
and USAID in various geographic regions where there are single teachers for all grade schools. Since 2000,
however, this institutional coordination between FIS and the line Ministers deteriorated.

Impact on Communities and Local Governments. During the past three years, FIS increased its
dialogue and liaison with the regional and municipal leaders. Dialogue and coordination with local
governments remains an issue in Guatemala affecting not only FIS, but also other government agencies. At
the departmental level, the FIS delegations have participated in the Development Councils to exchange
information with the regional authorities. At the municipal level, FIS maintains a constant liaison with the
Municipal Planning Unit. In fact, FIS II financed staff, equipment, and training for these units so that new
subprojects would be integrated with municipal management. In some cases, FIS has arranged for
community and municipal subproject management when there is capacity to handle it, particularly in the
Oriente and the Quiché Departments, where there have been important experiences related to the
decentralization agenda supported by IDB and KfW.

Impact on FIS. FIS as an institution has grown in size (over the last four years it has increased from 280
to 670 staff) and importance relative to other ministries. The upsizing of FIS over the last few years has
led to higher than expected personnel and administrative costs. As the Executive President of FIS
participates in the Social Cabinet with other ministers and secretaries, articulation between FIS and other
implementing agencies might have been higher and more effective. Even though FIS has developed
valuable tools for improving sub-project implementation and quality, such as a qualified contractors
database (Banco de Contratistas), a unitary costs database (Centro de Costos), and poverty maps for
improving targeting, since the early 2000s they have not been used systematically. FIS has been extended
until 2006 and the new administration is currently evaluating the need and timing of a third phase of the
FIS Program.

Impact on Social Funds Sector in Guatemala. There are several social funds in Guatemala, each with a
slightly different focus or targeted area. FIS has played an important role in this growing sector and has
participated in meetings and workshops with the other social funds and donors to improve the impact and
efficiency of operations to address poverty alleviation and increase subproject sustainability. Nevertheless,
over the last years the growing importance of social funds (particularly FIS, FONAPAZ and the FSDC)
has not been accompanied by effective coordination mechanisms.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Natural Disaster. Hurricane Mitch caused major damage and with Bank agreement, FIS responded to
emergency needs in the affected areas, which overlapped with some of the poorest areas of the country.



                                                     - 16 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Continuation of FIS. There was some concern about the continuation of FIS in 2000 when it was
extended by Congressional Decree for another twelve years, but then this action was declared
unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court due to a procedural issue. Eventually, another Decree in 2003
extended FIS until 2006. Currently, the new Government is implementing a reform to modernize social
funds in Guatemala, including FIS, FONPAZ, and FSDC. In doing so, the Government created the
National Coordination Directorate of Social Funds chaired by the Vice President and including, apart from
the above-mentioned funds, INFOM and SEGEPLAN. The Government is currently analyzing an extension
of FIS until 2025.

Leadership Changes and Politicization. Since the late 1990s, there have been signs of politicization of
FIS activities, particularly related to areas of interest to the ruling party. For example, during project
selection in some cases. Also FIS faced some political problems during project execution. For example, in
late 2002, FIS's ability to operate and qualifications requirements for its CEO were challenged in
Congress. It took some time to resolve the issue and the incumbent CEO was forced to resign.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Electoral Distortion. FIS was subject to some influence during the elections as evidenced by the large
amount of subproject investments made during an election year (1999-2000). However, the 2001 Impact
Evaluation found that targeting was not affected as a result of this.

Lack of Integration of Community Training Initiatives. FIS was slow to fully integrate the community
training component into their operations, other than through the stand-alone Community Organization
Program (which was quite successful in the areas where it operated). This delay in integration had some
impact on the overall sustainability of the subprojects, particularly with respect to operations and
maintenance. Nonetheless, more recently, FIS has included attention to community participation and it is
slowly becoming a more integral part of the subproject cycle.

Responsiveness. FIS's performance during the last three years of implementation was relatively sluggish,
particularly compared to the first two years, perhaps since the majority of funds had been disbursed and
only a small amount of funds remained in training and institutional capacity building budget items; and for
final payments for some subprojects. To a certain extent, this is to be expected given the winding down of
project activities. Also, during 2001-2002, funding from other donors with larger amounts and fewer
conditions was available. Nonetheless, there were delays in submitting an action plan for completing the
project and resolving the problem subprojects.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was US$72.1 million. The entire amount of the US$50.0 million IBRD loan was
disbursed (see Table 6). The GOG counterpart funding amounted to US$15.1 million (21 percent), higher
than the US$7.0 million estimated at appraisal. Beneficiary contributions[7] for each FIS subproject were
estimated at about US$7.0 million at appraisal and the actual cost was about US$7.1 million (9.8 percent),
considering community, NGO, and municipality contributions. At appraisal, FIS's operating costs were
estimated at US$3.2 million; and reach US$4.0 million actual operating costs (it is difficult to come up
with an actual cost since FIS's operating costs cover all of its programs) . FIS also received financing from
other international development agencies during the implementation of FIS II, notably the IDB and KfW,
but these are not included since the PAD did not consider these contributions as official cofinancing.




                                                       - 17 -

                            Table 6: Actual Project Costs by Financing Source
                 Source                  Planned Total Cost    Actual Total Cost      % of Actual
                                           (US$ million)         (US$ million)         Total Cost
                 IBRD                           50.0                 50.0                  69.2
                GOG                              7.0                 15.1                  21.0
                Beneficiary contribution         7.0                  7.1                   9.8
                (communities, NGOs,
                municipalities)
                 TOTAL                          64.0                 72.1                   100
                 *Amounts are subject to exchange rate variations.

Project funding by component is detailed in Table 7 below. The amount disbursed for subprojects was
US$69.6 million, compared to US$56.5 million projected at appraisal. For Component 2, a similar
comparison shows US$2.0 million estimated at appraisal and actual cost of US$1.3 million and for
Component 3, US$5.0 million at appraisal and actual cost of US$ 0.7 million, excluding the appraisal
estimate of US$3.0 million for operating costs to be covered by Government.

                             Table 7: Actual Project Financing by Component
     Project                 Cost at       Actual Cost     Financed By
     Component              Appraisal        (in US$
                         (US$ millions)     millions)
                                                                IBRD         Counterpart (Government and
                                                                               beneficiary contribution)
     A. Community              56.5            69.6             47.5                    22.1
     Subprojects
     B. Community              2.0             1.3               1.3                      0
     Training
     C. Institutional          5.0             0.7               0.7                    0.12
     Development
     Front-end Fee
                               0.5             0.5               0.5                      0
     TOTAL                     64.0            72.1             50.0                    22.2
    *Totals may not add due to rounding

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, sustainability is rated as likely.

FIS Sustainability. It is likely that FIS will continue its operations since FIS's services are seen as an
integral part of the Government and it has a good reputation among the line ministries, even though recently
coordination with other central agencies has been weakened. The Congressional Decree of January 2003
has extended FIS until May 2006. FIS has been able to mobilize resources from several donors, notably
from the Central American Bank. It has also expanded its donor base, for example with support from
Danida (Danish Agency for Development Assistance) and the European Union. A task force appointed by
the Vice-President of the Republic has been working on a proposal to introduce adjustments to modernize
social funds. The first step was the creation of the National Directorate for Social Funds Coordination in
May 2004. Part of the ongoing process of social funds reform involves defining the organizational scheme
to consolidate the social funds system in Guatemala (i.e., either merging the current funds in only one



                                                     - 18 -

organization or specializing them). Given the current Congressional environment (the Government party
does not have absolute majority), the latter alternative is the most likely to be implemented. Furthermore,
extending FIS to 2025 is an alternative the Government is considering.

Subprojects Sustainability. Subproject sustainability is somewhat likely since achievement was uneven,
particularly in terms of adequate operations and maintenance. The 2001 Impact Evaluation indicated that
the vast majority of beneficiaries believed that the subprojects functioned well or very well and about
two-thirds noted that the subprojects were in the same or better condition than when delivered, but about a
third indicated that the works had deteriorated. More than half of the beneficiaries did not receive training
in operation or maintenance of the subprojects. Yet for those that did receive training, nearly all believed it
was of very good quality. FIS was slow to incorporate beneficiary training for all infrastructure projects,
but more recently, they have focused on the importance of this in all stages of the project cycle.

In the Impact Evaluation, the provision of personnel, materials, and recurrent costs by the line ministries in
the health and education subprojects was unsatisfactory. During field visits, the experts noted that half of
the health construction projects did not have permanent personnel in place and they were either abandoned
or only partially used. The Government has begun to address this problem. In addition, it was noted that
the maintenance of education construction subprojects was mainly by the community committees, without
support from the Ministry of Education. For transportation subprojects, communities and municipalities
must commit to providing maintenance of roads and bridges, but given the limited resources at the local
levels and the lack of training, maintenance needs to be assigned priority (Hertel, 2000). Improving the
coordination between social funds and local governments is fundamental for the quality and sustainability
of the public investments. This is being addressed by the VP task force and by the decentralization
commission recently appointed by the President which is presided by the Secretaría Ejecutiva de la
Presidencia.

In some of the subprojects, such as the midwifery, training centers, sewage system, water provision, public
laundries, etc., a user fee was anticipated to help improve sustainability. But in the Impact Evaluation,
only 30 percent of the beneficiaries of these types of subprojects stated that they paid a user fee. Payment
of a user fee is somewhat seen to be an obstacle since only as about two-thirds said that a user fee would
not be a sacrifice or impact the satisfaction of their daily needs. Most community members perceived that
they had a responsibility regarding operations and maintenance of the subproject. Nearly 80 percent of
community leaders reported that the community participated in the functioning of the subprojects and about
16 percent said they did not.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A new administration took office in January 2004 and discussions are underway about the future of FIS.
There is still a need for the basic infrastructure services provided by FIS in the poorest rural areas and
there is an opportunity to strengthen the community organization and training aspects to help enhance
sustainability of FIS's investments. FIS has presented a proposal to the new Government for a third phase
of the FIS that is based on local participatory development and the Bank has initiated preliminary
discussions about continuing support to FIS.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in preparing the project was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the GOG's
poverty alleviation objectives in the context of the Peace Accords and the Bank's CAS. The Bank arranged
for a Japanese PHRD preparation grant (TF029721) to help FIS resolve important policy and operational


                                                      - 19 -

issues related to the project. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) provided a description of the main
objectives, the overall strategic context in the country at the time, and an assessment of the main risks to
project implementation. Project preparation included a significant investment in the analysis of social,
indigenous, and gender issues, which helped to guide the design of the community training component. On
this issue, however, the Bank may have overestimated the capacity of FIS, at that time, to fully incorporate
the community capacity building initiatives into the overall subproject cycle. The fact that project
execution in its early phases responded to emergent priorities generated by the Hurricane, may have
impacted the Borrower's initial lack of emphasis on community involvement.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. The Bank carried out regular supervision missions
supplemented by visits from specialists and provided oversight of project implementation and fiduciary
aspects. The Project Status Reports were realistic in the ratings on non-performing aspects of the project
and specific expert assistance was identified when needed, such as to review the procurement concerns as
described previously. However, there was not as much attention given to a systematic review and updating
of the performance monitoring indicators. The Government comments note that there was a strong
technical partnership between FIS and the Bank, yet the Bank could have more consistently provided
written feedback on its observations and recommendations.

There were three Task Manager changes after the original Task Manager retired. All of these transitions
were generally smooth and it should be noted that the Social Development and Civil Society Specialist of
the Guatemala Resident Mission, who was involved in both preparation and supervision, played a key role
in ensuring continuity and providing timely technical assistance and support to FIS staff. The Bank was
also very responsive to GOG's needs after Hurricane Mitch and quickly approved streamlined procedures
to finance emergency reconstruction subprojects. The Bank-supported PROGENIAL Program also
provided quality technical assistance to further incorporate the gender dimension into the project. A
Mid-term Review was carried out in July 2000 to review overall project progress and work with FIS to
more fully integrate the community training activities into their overall project cycle. The Bank's overall
supervision performance was weaker on the community training component, although the Bank did
consistently encourage FIS to strengthen its efforts in this area.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
FIS's performance in preparing the project was satisfactory. The Government expressed a strong
commitment to the important role played by FIS and gave the institution full authority to design the second
phase based on technical criteria and lessons learned from the FIS I and FONAPAZ. With funding from
the PHRD grant, FIS contracted a series of studies on: the needs and targets for social sector investment;
the poverty targeting and sector prioritization; the role of NGOs; the special needs of indigenous groups,
women, and children; and the content and impact of community capacity building programs. These studies
were used to help improve FIS's policies and operations prior to the launch of FIS II.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during implementation was satisfactory. The Government provided
consistent support to FIS's operations and counterpart contributions were made available. The
Government had assured the Bank during appraisal that FIS would be extended past 2001, and although
there was some concern about this during implementation, FIS was eventually extended by Congressional



                                                      - 20 -

Decree until 2006.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
On balance, FIS's performance during implementation was satisfactory. FIS efficiently carried out a large
number of basic social and economic infrastructure subprojects benefiting some of the most remote and
isolated communities in Guatemala. FIS also responded to the emergency needs following Hurricane Mitch
and has established a good reputation in Government for its ability to deliver quality subprojects. FIS has
an excellent management information system and can quickly produce indicators, statistics, and other
needed information. In early 2000, the Guatemala Resident Mission recognized FIS II as the best
performing project, mainly based on the high level of disbursement. As mentioned previously, there were
some inconsistencies in FIS's overall performance with respect to the community training component early
on.

FIS's performance over the last three years slowed and deteriorated somewhat with respect to project
management, procurement, and administration, particularly on completing unfinished problem subprojects
and providing the Bank with a requested action plan and the final reallocation of loan proceeds. Most of the
funds were disbursed in the first two years and it took a long time to disburse the remaining IBRD loan,
perhaps since FIS had other funding sources available that had fewer procedures that had to be followed.
Due to the delays, FIS requested and the Bank granted a six-month extension of the Closing Date to finalize
the remaining subprojects and fully execute the loan. As mentioned above, an Independent Procurement
Review was carried out in June 2002. This review did not detect any significant problems, but suggested
specific improvements. During the last year of the project, these issues were still not adequately addressed
and the compliance with agreed procurement schedules was rated as unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Social Funds in General

Role for Social Funds in Emergency Response. The rapid response by FIS and the Bank to the damage
caused by Hurricane Mitch to the transportation infrastructure showed the important and effective role that
social funds can play in emergency situations due to their unique design and procedures. Social funds are
able to invest in infrastructure in communities and they can meet the need for employment.

Subproject Sustainability. Initiatives to enhance subproject sustainability must be adequately funded in
proportion to the amount for subprojects and fully incorporated into the subproject cycle. Subprojects
should routinely include an operations and maintenance plan for each subproject with an assessment of the
operating costs and agreement among all parties on how those costs will be covered and/or shared by
communities, municipalities, and/or line ministries. Training for communities in operations and
maintenance must be an integral part of all subprojects.

Integration of Community Training. A strategy to integrate community participation and training into the
existing operational structure of a bureaucracy should be carefully planned and phased, with a significant
investment in building ownership of the concept and implementation capacity among the organization's
staff members. The community training activities themselves should have adequate funding to provide
training in routine issues as well as new empowerment and community organization topics. Social funds
can help encourage community participation by developing a community participation policy for all phase



                                                     - 21 -

of the subproject cycle. This policy should also include mechanisms to involve the local municipal and
regional authorities.

Subproject Monitoring and Completion. Once subprojects become "problem" subprojects and are
unfinished for some reason, it becomes even more difficult to actually complete them due to expired
guarantees, old material, disenchanted community laborers, and/or high administrative costs for the
contractor. Emphasis should be placed on consistent supervision and monitoring of the execution of the
works in order to avoid a persistent problem, which is then much more difficult to address.

Environmental Assessment. Given the extensive worldwide experience with social funds, there are many
systems, methodologies, and tools that can be incorporated upfront into the Operations Manual to ensure
that projects provide sufficient attention to integration of environmental assessment in the subproject cycle
and community awareness of environmental issues.

Electoral Distortion/Close Attention to Supervision. It is very difficult for social funds to avoid the
influence of politics, particularly at the time of an election. As in this case, the use of transparent targeting
criteria for subproject resource allocation is the only way a social fund can withstand the political pressures
to lend to particular municipalities and communities. Social funds also run the risk of starting hundreds of
subprojects during an election year to show results in communities, but then due to lack of supervision,
these subprojects become "problem" subprojects and ultimately have high administrative and transaction
costs for the institution.

Procurement Management. Social fund projects usually do not have a Project Coordinating Unit and
procurement administration is carried out by each sector unit. In this situation, internal quality control and
consistent archiving of key documents in all the different sector units is essential and should be closely
monitored and reviewed during regular ex-post documentation reviews.

Specific to Guatemala

Poverty Targeting. According to recent studies made by the Bank (Poverty Assessment- GUAPA) and
other Guatemalan institutions, FIS was one of the better-rated institutions in the country regarding the
effectiveness of poverty targeting. However, FIS lacks adequate coordination with other funds, and
particularly with line ministries.

New Investment Areas. FIS has traditionally focused on provision of basic infrastructure, but it would
also be beneficial to increase investments in training for strengthening community organizations, and
investments related to income generation activities and some promising areas such as agro-forestry.

Improved Stoves. It is clear that there is a demand and need for the improved Plancha stoves in the rural
areas in Guatemala. For future stove subprojects, it is necessary for FIS to re-evaluate the stove cost
structure, open up to more participation of private contractors to induce competition, and assess the
potential of new portable stoves that may reduce costs.

Role of the Bank

Responsive to Needs. The Bank showed great responsiveness to the needs arising from Hurricane Mitch.
The Bank quickly approved the use of streamlined procedures and also played a key role coordinating
donor activities, related to FIS, during the emergency.




                                                       - 22 -

Important Role of Decentralized Resident Mission. The involvement of a member of the Guatemala
Resident Mission during both preparation and implementation was crucial to ensuring continuity and
consistent, hands-on, support and technical assistance to the FIS team.

Supervision Ratings. One of the main indicators used by Bank management was the level of
disbursement. As learned in this project, even with a high performing project, attention should be paid to
under-performing aspects, which may not have large amounts of financing, but can have the potential to
enhance subproject sustainability.

Gender Technical Assistance. The PROGENIAL Program was a positive influence and helped FIS to
integrate gender equity concerns into its implementation of subprojects and also its internal operations.
This program was effective since a local expert consultant worked closely and consistently with the FIS
organization and provided strong follow-up and concrete advice and suggestions that could be implemented.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

1. A central task for FIS is to create the conditions for rural people to overcome poverty and exclusion.
There is well established evidence that schools, health facilities including water systems and
communications are the main avenues for impoverished communities to have access to better living
conditions. It was in these three sectors that 78.62 % of the Project funds were invested. The task of FIS
was to support sector ministries in expanding quality services to hereto before relegated rural and
indigenous people. It can be stated that all projects financed by this Project are being used by beneficiaries
and are relevant to their expressed needs.

2. While a less than acceptable effort was put in community organization, in the last two years FIS is
making very substantial progress in developing procedures and programs to include this factor in its project
cycle. Relevant experience has been achieved in PRORIENTE with KfW support and PRORIENTE with
IDB financing, thereby developing further a component initiated with BIRF with presently evaluated
Project.   New community and municipal participation manuals have been tested and systematized,
preparing FIS for future operations.

3. Note should be taken of the continuous and in depth auditing to which FIS financial management and
operations are submitted. Besides an internal audit established by FIS law, there is a permanent delegation
from the Contraloria General de Cuentas, a Congress established national audit agency. In addition, the
BIRF Project provided for and was duly undertaken, annual financial and procurement external audits,
which complemented other external audits required by other financial agencies, such as IDB. Thus, there is
close surveillance of the institution to guarantee proper management of public and Bank funds and projects.

4. FIS benefited greatly by a considerable number of supervision missions from the Bank and by
continuous support from the Guatemalan Delegation. In fact, FIS wants to register his recognition for the
fast, effective cooperation by BIRF at facilitating its emergency intervention in relief and infrastructure
reconstruction on the occasion of the MITCH disaster. The Bank adapted its policies in a flexible manner
to accommodate procedures to the urgent response required from FIS and allowed the use of Bank funds
for this purpose.

5. In view of a technical partnership maintained by FIS and BIRF through several support missions, FIS
regrets that in some instances no written feedback of observations and recommendations were received.



                                                     - 23 -

6. Social investment for overcoming poverty and exclusion in rural and indigenous areas is of first priority
for Guatemala and has been so determined by the Government. Neither democracy nor peace is sustainable
without participation and inclusion in social and economic wellbeing. Thus, FIS prepared and presented to
the Bank a Perfil 1 of a new operation for US$ 70 million, and it will benefit greatly from an identification
mission and other observations to prepare an improved project design in line with Bank policies and
national needs.

7. Finally, in the transition initiated by the Government of Guatemala with Bank support, FIS starts with a
legal statute approved by two thirds majority of Congress, a ten year experience, improved practices tested
in community and municipal empowerment, sector coordination, and well established information system
and focalization methodology. FIS participates in the newly crated Social Funds Directory Committee
under the Vice-president. FIS has been supported by most international agencies, and while it has limited
funding for the next year, it requires substantial support to accompany the government efforts to increase
social investment.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

N/A.




Footnotes
[1]
   The First Social Investment Fund Project (FIS I), a US$20.0 million IBRD Loan was approved by the World
Bank in November 1992 and closed in March 1999.
[2]
   PROGENIAL was launched in 1999 with funding from a Japan Policy and Human Resources Development
(PHRD) Grant and currently has Netherlands funding.
[3]
   FIS also supports Bancos Comunales, financed with other sources, where 100 percent of the members of the
decisionmaking committees are women.
[4]
   This amount sums the subproject beneficiaries, but since many subprojects benefited the same community
members, the absolute number of beneficiaries is estimated to be less, approximately 2.5 million.
[5]
   It should be noted that FIS, like most, if not all, social funds, does not have a satisfactory definition of
"beneficiaries," and therefore, as a result, it is really only useful to compare number of beneficiaries within the
same sector, but not between sectors.
[6]
   ESMAP is a global technical assistance program which helps build consensus and provides policy advice on
sustainable energy development to governments of developing countries and economies in transition. ESMAP was
established in 1983 under the joint sponsorship of the World Bank and UNDP as a partnership with UNDP in
response to global energy crises.
[7]
   The beneficiary contribution is an estimate, usually consisting of labor (time spent in project preparation and
solicitation, transport of local materials in difficult mountainous areas, and unskilled labor), lands, and materials
contributed by the communities. The beneficiary contribution is an estimate as it is difficult to monitor accurately
in the financial and accounting records.



                                                           - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators

Indicator/Matrix                                  Projected in last PSR1                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                  Actual impacts require an evaluation 2001
                                                  and it takes several years to measure.
                                                  An Impact Evaluation was carried out
                                                  in 2001 and the results, which are
                                                  still relevant, are presented here.

Well functioning poverty targeting mechanisms                                           Resources actually allocated to
                                                                                        municipalities during the
                                                                                        project life have a 0.7
                                                                                        correlation coefficient with
                                                                                        poverty incidence.

Effective community participation throughout                                            Full community participation was
the subproject cycle                                                                    implemented in the microregions
                                                                                        with satisfactory results. It was not
                                                                                        fully incorporated into FIS's
                                                                                        operations. Participation was
                                                                                        satisfactory in the request, execution,
                                                                                        and functioning phases and
                                                                                        unsatisfactory in the contracting and
                                                                                        supervision of subprojects.
                                                                                        From a total of 5.4 million
Percentage of population covered by minimum                                             people in rural areas according
water supply and sanitation facilities, as well as                                      to the 1994 census, 40.4%
mileage of available access roads.                                                      lacked water services (2.18
                                                                                        million). Of these, FIS/IBRD
                                                                                        projects covered a total of
                                                                                        281,686 persons, equivalent to
                                                                                        13 percent.

Reports on investment execution by 1/99;                                                IFML full integration 2003.
integration into IFML system of social fund
investment operations by 1/99; public
employees trained in project evaluation by 6/99.




                                                             - 25 -

Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR1    Actual/Latest Estimate
Capability to better and faster handle                               Quetzaltenango pilot implemented
subproject cycle through decentralized                               2003.
operations.

Number and amount of problem contracts                               Total # of completed subprojects:
and completed subprojects                                            2,936 (US$65.5 million)
                                                                     # of Problem contracts: 85 for
                                                                     approximately US$2 million
                                                                     (Q16.1 million). By the end of
                                                                     project, most of remaining 55
                                                                     unresolved cases had been
                                                                     completed.

Introduction of environmental assessment                             Environmental Unit functioning.
mechanism

Number and amount of infrastructure                                  Number and amount of Infrastructure
subprojects and beneficiaries                                        subprojects:
                                                                     -269 health posts
                                                                     -170 primary health care centers
                                                                     -2,473 latrines
                                                                     -587 rural schools with 1,477 rooms
                                                                     -81 community libraries
                                                                     -44 access roads (245.7 k)
                                                                     -103 bridges
                                                                     -50 classrooms in 16 rural training
                                                                     centers
                                                                     -69 mini-irrigation systems
                                                                     -40 centers for storage and primary
                                                                     processing
                                                                     -130 water supply projects
                                                                     -18 sewerage projects
                                                                     -4 drainage systems
                                                                     -78 public laundries
                                                                     -27,428 improved stoves

                                                                     Amounts and beneficiary
                                                                     numbers are below

Number and amount of subprojects and                                 Total # of completed subprojects:
beneficiaries by sector and geographic area                          2,936 (US$65.5 million)
                                                                     Sector Beneficiaries:
                                                                     -Health: 565 subprojects
                                                                                US$7.7 million
                                                                                2,833,042 beneficiaries
                                                                     -Education: 1,205 subprojects
                                                                                   US$22.9 million
                                                                                   670,730 beneficiaries
                                                                     -Transportation: 259 subprojects
                                                                                         US$11.9 million
                                                                                         536,955



                                                    - 26 -

                                              beneficiaries
                                              -Water/Sanitation: 301 subprojects
                                                                    US$9.0
                                              million
                                                                   281,686
                                              beneficiares
                                              -Empowerment: 115 subprojects
                                                                US$1.6 million
                                                                114,833
                                              beneficiaries
                                              -Productivity: 265 subprojects
                                                               US$8.6 million
                                                              113,006 beneficiaries
                                              -Environment 226 subprojects
                                                               US$3.8 million
                                                               107,000 beneficiaries

                                              Poverty Category:
                                              A. Extreme: 543 (US13.1 million)
                                              B. Severe: 818 (US$18.0 million)
                                              C. Medium: 722 (US$15.4 million)
                                              D. Relative: 620 (US$13.4 million)
                                              E. Low: 233 (US$ 5.6 million)



 Type and number of courses and               115 empowerment subprojects with
participants in training courses              training carried out.

1End of project




                                    - 27 -

                                               FIS Performance Indicators
Indicator                                                   Appraisal Estimate (Annual       Actual Annual Average
                                                            Goals)
1. Number and amount of requests declared eligible vs.      % of number of subprojects: 70   84% of number of subprojects:
number of requests received                                 % of amount of subprojects: 75   94% of amount of subprojects:
2. Number and amount of subprojects approved by technical   % of number of subprojects: 60   42% of number of subprojects:
committee (feasible requests) versus number of requests     % of amount of subprojects: 60   76% of amount of subprojects:
declared eligible
3. Number and amount of subprojects contracted vs. number   % of number of subprojects: 60   166% of number of
of subprojects approved by technical committee              % of amount of subprojects: 60   subprojects:
                                                                                             179% of amount of
                                                                                             subprojects:
4. Number and amount of subprojects initiated vs. number of % of number of projects: 75      116% of number of projects:
projects contracted.                                        % of amount of projects: 75      111% of amount of projects:
5. Number and amount of completed projects vs. number of    % of number of projects: 60      54% of number of projects:
initiated projects.                                         % of amount of projects: 60      50% of amount of projects:
6. Number and amount of projects with delayed contracted    % of number of subprojects: 20   26% of number of subprojects:
implementation time vs. number and amount of projects in    % of amount of subprojects: 20   26% of amount of subprojects:
implementation
7. Number and amount of subprojects in implementation that % of number of subprojects: 5     2% of number of subprojects:
have been suspended vs. number and amount of subprojects    % of amount of subprojects: 5    1% of amount of subprojects:
in implementation
8. Number and amount of completed subprojects with an       % of number of subprojects:      20% of number of subprojects:
increase in contracted costs and number and amount of       10                               26% of amount of subprojects:
completed subprojects.                                      % of amount of subprojects: 10
9. Productivity in FIS's project cycle:                    Number subprojects by:            Number subprojects by:
A.        Subprojects evaluated by sectoral manager        Evaluated/Sectoral manager: 90    Evaluated/Sectoral manager:
B.        Subprojects in implementation by external        Implementation/external           47
supervisor and monitoring manager                          supervisor: 15                    Implementation/external
                                                           Implementation/monitoring         supervisor: 13
                                                           manager: 60                       Implementation/monitoring
                                                                                             manager: No data available.
10. Processing time for subprojects in project cycle:      Average days between:             Average days between:
A.        Declared eligible-evaluated                      -Declared eligible/ evaluated: 60 -Declared eligible/ evaluated:
B.        Evaluated-approved by committee                  -Evaluated/approved by            75
C.        Approved by committee-contracted                 committee: 30                     -Evaluated/approved by
D.        Contracted-initiated                             -Approved committee/contracted:   committee: 63
E.        Initiated-completed                              60                                -Approved
F.        Completed-received                               -Contracted/initiated: 30         committee/contracted: 130
                                                           -Initiated-completed: 180         -Contracted/initiated: 48
                                                           -Completed-received: 45           -Initiated-completed: No data
                                                                                             available.
                                                                                             -Completed-received: No data
                                                                                             available.
11. Amount (total, advance payments) of disbursements in   % of disbursements:               % of disbursements:
the period and amount of subprojects:                      -Amounts contracted: 40           Amounts contracted: 86
A.        Contracted                                       -Amounts in implementation: 60    Amounts in implementation:
B.        In Implementation                                -Amounts completed: 30            87
C.        Completed                                                                          Amounts completed: 155
12. Average time lapse between signing of contract and      Number of days: 30               Number of days: 21
payment of advance




                                                          - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate       Estimate            Appraisal
Component                                                            US$ million    US$ million
A. Community-based Subprojects                                            56.5              69.6               123.2
B. Community Training                                                     2.0                1.3               65.0
C. Institutional Development                                              5.0       0.7 (not including      14.4 (not
                                                                                    US$ 4 million for including US$4
                                                                                       FIS operation)   for FIS operation)
Front-end Fee                                                             0.5                0.5               100.0

Total Baseline Cost                                                       64.0              72.1               113.0
 Total Project Costs                                                      64.0              72.1               113.0
Total Financing Required (excluding Gov't)                                50.0              50.0               100.0
*Appraisal estimate for counterpart includes beneficiary contributions.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                        Procurement      Method
Expenditure Category                 ICB                NCB              Other 1/                2/                    3/
                                                                                         N.B.F.             Total Cost
1. Community Subprojects                                5.5              51.0                               56.5
                                                        (4.5)            (42.0)                             (46.5)
2. Goods                                                                 0.6                                0.6
                                                                         (0.6)                              (0.6)
3. Technical Assistance and                                              2.4             0.8                3.2
Training                                                                 (2.4)                              (2.4)

4. FIS Operational Costs                                                                 3.2                3.2

   Total                                                5.5              54.0            4.0                63.5
                                                        (4.5)            (45.0)                             (49.5)
1/
  Community subprojects, shopping and direct contracting: Goods, national and international shopping; Technical
assistance = consultant services
2/
 N.B.F = Not Bank-financed
3/
  Excluding fee of US$0.5 million.




                                                      - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Procurement        Method
Expenditure Category                         1/                 2/              3/                   4/
                                       NCB              N.B.F.            Other         Total Cost

1. Community Subprojects      5/         9.36              ----            60.24             69.60
BIRF                                   \6.38\ 6/                          \41.17\           \47.55\
2. Goods                                                                   0.394             0.394
                                                                          \0.264\           \0.264\
3. Technical Assistance and                                                 1.69             1.69
Training
                                                                           \1.69\           \1.618\
                            7/
4. FIS Operational Costs



                                                           4.00
   Total                                 9.36              4.00           62.252            71.68
                                        \6.38\             ----            43.04           \49.50\
1/National Competitive Bidding
2/N.B.F = Not Bank-financed
3/Community subprojects, shopping and direct contracting: Goods, national and international shopping;
  Technical assistance = consultant services
4/Excluding fee of US$0.5 million.
5/All resources, including, BIRF+GOG
6/BIRF amount.
7/All the amounts were converted into Dollars. Exchange rate = US$1 = Q. 6.94.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                   Percentage of
Component                   Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate           Appraisal
                              IBRD       Govt.                    IBRD        Govt.                  IBRD      Govt.
A. Community-based             46.5       10.5                    47.5        22.1                  102.0    210.5
Subprojects
B. Community Training           1.5       0.5                      1.3          0                    86.6      0
C. Institutional                1.5       3.5                      0.7         0.1                   46.6     2.8
Development
Front-end Fee                   0.5        --                      0.5          --                  100.0      --
TOTAL Project Costs            50.0       14.0                    50.0        22.2                  100.0    158.5
Government Appraisal Estimate and Actual includes beneficiary contributions. This also does not include the
Government contribution of US$4.0 million in operating costs.




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Since the FIS II Project was fully demand driven, no cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal.
However, as described below, there was an Impact Evaluation carried out during implementation to
increase the effectiveness of FIS in the fulfillment of its mission and objectives. Since the outcomes are
still relevant, no additional ex-post study is planned for FIS II.

Impact Evaluation Results

An Impact Evaluation was carried out in early 2001 with a sample of 348 subprojects (209 IBRD
financing, 89 KfW financing, and 50 OECF financing) to assess the focalization, benefits, community
participation, quality of works, sustainability, and creation and strengthening of local capacity and
environmental impact of the subprojects. The evaluation was carried out through semi-structured
interviews with beneficiaries, community leaders, and administrators of the subprojects in the sample, 36
focus groups, and 300 field visits.

Focalization
The study found that the investment of FIS resources has been effectively focused in the rural areas and in
the municipalities, departments, and regions with high poverty levels. About 79 percent of the resources
and 82 percent of the subprojects were carried out in population centers with the caserio or aldea category
(areas with the highest level of rural residence). Based on the Rural Poverty Index used by FIS, 21 percent
of the investment and number of subprojects were in the extreme poverty category (A). The percentage of
focalization by department was 56 percent, indicating an average correlation between the level of poverty in
the department and the amount invested. Considering the number of subprojects, the focalization is at 60
percent, indicating a greater distribution of the subprojects among the departments according to the poverty
level. Analyzing the focalization based on the eight regions of the country, the focalization percentage was
72 percent for investment of resources and 74 percent of the number of subprojects, indicating a high
correlation between the level of regional poverty and the amount invested and number of subprojects
financed by FIS.

Microregions
Based on the Map of Unsatisfied Basic Needs, FIS identified 63 municipalities, based on common
demographic, economic, and social characteristics, to be considered 18 "microregions," where it would
work in a more integral way. Of these microregions, only about 48 percent belong to the Extreme and
Severe Poverty Categories (A and B), indicating that FIS could improve its effectiveness in focusing on
geographical areas of poverty. Within the microregions, about 74 percent of the investment and 69 percent
of the subprojects were these two lowest poverty categories. In fact, this analysis showed that the
focalization in microregions was highly effective in reaching the poorest of the poor since outside of these
zones the percent of investment and number of projects was only 45 and 36 percent for these Poverty
Categories.




                                                     - 31 -

Impact Results and Sustainability
The Impact Evaluation interviewed beneficiaries about the benefits of the subprojects showing that over 90
percent believed that the needs addressed by the subprojects were the greatest priority in the community,
the subprojects benefit the population that has the most needs in the community, and the subprojects are
being used for what they were originally conceived. Overall, more than 90 percent believe that the
subprojects have provided benefits in their lives and 95 percent believe that the subprojects have provided a
positive benefit for the community. There was slightly less satisfaction, but still positive responses, with
the design and size of the subproject with 78 percent indicating satisfaction and 22 percent believing the
subproject could be improved.

Community participation was found to be adequate in the identification, prioritization, request, execution,
and functioning of the subprojects, but less satisfactory in the formulation of subprojects and unsatisfactory
in the contracting and supervision of subprojects. The community associations have not satisfactorily
assumed a role in the operation and maintenance of subprojects and the local authorities were not involved
in the subproject cycle.

The impact of the subprojects during the evaluation period refers to the percentage that represents the goal
completed by FIS in a sector compared to the total amount realized by the government in this sector. FIS
provided an adequate attention to the following sectors:
    ·    Construction of health facilities and degree of attention, FIS funded 159.5 percent;
    ·    Access roads, FIS funded 83.3 percent;
    ·    Educational equipment, FIS funded 45 percent; and
    ·    Improved stoves, FIS funded 34.3 percent.

In other areas, FIS had less of an impact, including:
    ·    Health equipment, FIS funded 17.9 percent;
    ·    Education construction, FIS funded 15.7 percent;
    ·    Provision of water, FIS funded 15.3 percent;
    ·    Waste management, FIS funded 8.9 percent;
    ·    Mini-irrigation systems, FIS funded 12.4 percent;
    ·    Training for work ("capacitación para el trabajo" - a way for labeling specific training so that
         people can get/access an income generating job); FIS funded 0.6 percent; and
    ·    Agroforestry, FIS funded 0.1 percent.

This study showed that 85 percent of the beneficiaries believed that the subprojects functioned well or very
well. In particular, the improved stoves were seen as providing significant positive economic and
environmental impact. In terms of the condition, 63 percent noted that the subprojects were in the same or
better conditions than when delivered, and 32 percent indicated that the works had deteriorated. When
asked about maintenance and operation, 84 percent of the beneficiaries indicated that the maintenance of
the subprojects was the responsibility of the community organizations, paid persons, municipalities,
government ministries, or another entity. Following field visits, the experts noted that maintenance is not
satisfactory since only 63 percent receive adequate or partially adequate maintenance and 37 percent
receive inadequate maintenance.

The provision of personnel, materials, and recurrent costs by the line ministries in the health and education
subprojects has not been satisfactory. Twenty percent of the beneficiaries report that the ministries support
the administration of the subprojects and 49 percent receive support from other institutions. During field
visits, the experts noted that the half of the health construction projects did not have permanent personnel in
place and they were either abandoned or only partially used. Although there is been some progress, FIS still


                                                       - 32 -

needs to improve in this area. In addition, it was noted that the maintenance of education construction
subprojects was mainly by the community committees, without support from the Ministry of Education.

In some of the subprojects, such as the midwifery, training centers, sewage system, water provision, public
laundries, etc., a user fee was anticipated to help improve sustainability. Only 30 percent of the
beneficiaries of these types of subprojects stated that they pay a user fee; 67 indicated that they do not pay
a fee. The payment of a user fee is somewhat perceived to be an obstacle; about 65 percent said that a user
fee would not be a sacrifice or impact the satisfaction of their daily needs; 32 did say it would be a
sacrifice.

Most community members perceive that there is a responsibility regarding operations and maintenance of
the subproject. Nearly 80 percent of community leaders reported that the community participated in the
functioning of the subprojects and about 16 percent did not.

The issue regarding training is one of quantity, not quality. More than 50 percent of beneficiaries did not
receive training on operation or maintenance of the subprojects. Yet for those that did receive training,
over 90 percent believed it was of very good quality.




                                                     - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/18/1997                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                 S               S
              -identification
              10/15/1997                 6    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL         S               S
              -preparation                    FUNDS SPECIALIST (1);
                                              SOCIAL ANTHROPOLOGIST
                                              (1); WATER SUPPLY
                                              ENGINEER (1), SOCIAL DEV.
                                              & CIVIL SOCIETY
                                              SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1).
              6/19/1998                  2    SENIOR OPERATIONS                S               S
              -Preparation                    OFFICER (1); CONSULTANT
                                              (1).
              08/18/1998                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT             S               S
              -preparation                    SPECIALIST (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Pre-Appraisal -            4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
              05/25/1998                      SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                              WATER & SANITATION
                                              SPECIALIST (1); TASK
                                              ASSISTANT (1).

 Supervision
              01/19/1999                 4    TASM MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                              OPERATIONS
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1); CIVIL
                                              SOCIETY SPECIALIST (1).
              07/14/1999                 6    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                              FINANCIAL MNGMT
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1); OPERATIONS
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                              ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1).
              07/29/1999                 1    WATER & SANITATION               S               S
                                              SPECIALIST (1).
              02/06/2000                 4    TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL         S               S
                                              FUND SPECIALIST (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                              (1); CIVIL SOCIETY



                                               - 34 -

                      SPECIALIST (1).
      04/24/2000    4 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); SOCIAL FUND
                      SPECIALIST (1); CIVIL
                      SOCIETY SPEC (1).
      04/26/2000    1 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST       S    S
                      (1).
      07/27/2000    1 RURAL ROADS SPECIALIST       S    S
                      (1).
      09/18/2000    2 TASK MANAGER (1); SOC        S    S
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1).
      09/28/2000    4 TASK MANAGER (1); SOC.       S    S
                      DEVT. SPECIALIST (1);
                      KFW/SF SPECIALIST (1); KFM
                      CONS/PROCUREMENT (1).
      09/10/2001    2 TASK MANAGER (1); SOC        S    S
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1).
      01/02/2002    1 PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT        S    S
                      (1).
      05/17/2002    4 TASK MANAGER (1); SOC        S    S
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                      PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                      (1); PROCUREMENT
                      SPECIALIST (1).
      08/29/2002    3 TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL     S    S
                      PROTECTION SPECIALIST
                      (1); SOCIAL DEV.
                      SPECIALIST (1).
      11/06/2002    4 SOCIAL PROTECTION            S    S
                      SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                      OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                      SOCIAL FUNDS SPECIALIST
                      (1).
      04/11/2003    2 SOCIAL PROTECTION            S    S
                      SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1).
      07/14/2003    3 TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL     S    S
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                      SOCIAL PROTECTION
                      SPECIALIST (1).
      10/31/2003    2 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST       S    S
                      (1); FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1).
      11/12/2003    3 TASK MANAGER (1); SOCIAL     S    S
                      DEV. SPECIALIST (1);
                      SOCIAL PROTECTION
                      SPECIALIST (1).

ICR
      5/27/2004     4 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S



                      - 35 -

SOCIAL DEV. & CIVIL
SOCIETY SPECIALIST
(1); SOCIAL FUNDS
SPECIALIST (1); GENDER
& INDIGENOUS PEOPLE
SPECIALIST (1).




- 36 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     31.05                       108,680
  Appraisal/Negotiation                             4.0                       14,000
  Supervision                                    70.67                       176,740
  ICR                                               6.0                       21,000
  Total                                        111.72                        320,420
Source: This table is based on estimate information gathered from SAP system.




                                                      - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Indigenous
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Carneiro de Miranda, Rogério, February 2003. Guatemalan Plancha Stove Cost Study. Financed by
ESMAP, World Bank Group.

Consultora Multiprofesional, S.A. Multipsa , September 2001. Evaluación Ex-post de los Proyectos
Financiados por el FIS con Recursos BIRF, KfW, y OECF.

Fundación Solar, November 2002. Evaluación de Programas de Estufas Mejoradas en Guatemala.
World Bank.

Hertel, Sven, 2000. Ayuda Memoria Técnica; Misión de Caminos Rurales, August 2000.

Republic of Guatemala, January 2004. Informe de Cierre de Proyecto FIS II. Fondo de Inversión Social.

World Bank, Project Status Reports #1-12.

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Guatemala Second Social Investment Fund, October 26, 1998.

World Bank, Loan Agreement: Guatemala Second Social Investment Fund, January 22, 1999.




                                                 - 40 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

Original Government contribution is in the IRIS project files. Since the Government contribution was
longer than 10 pages, a summary was done by the Bank. This is an unofficial translation

1.      INTRODUCTION.
        This IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) for the SECOND SOCIAL
                                                                   [1]


INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT, LOAN IBRD 4407-GU, REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA has been
prepared by the SIF in compliance with Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement signed by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Social Investment Fund, for the
implementation of the Project Agreement concluded between the Republic of Guatemala and IBRD, No.
4407-GU, Second Social Investment Fund Project.
        This ICR was prepared by the technical, administrative and financial personnel of the SIF,
following guidelines furnished by senior management.   [2]The preparation of the ICR began with the
guidance provided by the Bank supervision mission of June 2003. The ICR is based on the Loan
Agreement, Project Agreement, annual reviews, progress reports, official information contained in the SIF
Information Systems on Projects and Finances, and other documents in the institution's archives.

2.      BACKGROUND.
        The SIF, the implementing agency for the Project, is an autonomous decentralized institution
possessing legal personality and its own capital. It was created by Decree No. 13-93 of the Congress of the
Republic by the vote of a qualified majority of deputies (more than two thirds), as stipulated by the
Constitution of the Republic of Guatemala for the creation of autonomous entities. Although its duration
was originally set at only eight years, Decree No. 2-2000 of the Congress of the Republic extended it to 12
years; however, this latter decree only remained in effect until February 2003 when, upon being declared
unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court because it had not been approved by a qualified majority, it
was repealed and replaced by Decree No. 03-2003 of the Congress in order to ensure continuity and extend
the duration of the SIF to 13 years, expiring on May 31, 2006. The purpose of the SIF is to be the State's
intermediary in social investment to improve the standard of living and socioeconomic conditions of the
poor and it is the sole social fund dedicated exclusively to the rural areas.
        Project IBRD 4407-GU is the second such project largely funded by a World Bank loan for social
investment to be implemented by the SIF (which was established on the occasion of the first loan) in
support of the Government's poverty alleviation strategy and in pursuance of the Peace Agreements, the
amount of the loan being US$50 million, plus counterpart funds from the Government, beneficiaries and
others totaling US$14 million. The Loan Agreement was signed on January 22, 1999, with an
Implementation Letter of the same date, and was declared effective on March 2 of that year. Its original
closing date of June 10, 2003, was subsequently extended by the Bank to December 31, 2003.

3.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES.
        3.1      The Objectives. The objectives of the Project were: (a) to continue supporting the
Government's poverty-alleviation efforts by implementing projects (subprojects) targeting Guatemala's
poorest areas and population groups; and (b) to strengthen the capacity of the intermediary beneficiaries to
design, implement and maintain the projects.
        The three components of the Project, which define its objectives for operational purposes are the
following: Part A. Projects, with a Bank contribution of US$46,509,901, to cover 84% of the total cost
of each subproject, consisting of the financing and execution of community-based projects originated by
demand, including feasibility studies, in the following areas: (i) social or economic infrastructure; (ii)
provision of technical assistance and training in the social services sphere; and (iii) other investment for



                                                     - 41 -

productive purposes that meet the requirements laid down in the Operational Manual. Part B.
Community Training, with a Bank contribution of US$1,500,000, covering 100% of the cost of training
the intermediary beneficiaries and the Ministries involved in the Project, in the topics of participatory
planning, identification of investment priorities, raising of awareness regarding environmental protection
measures in the projects, operation and maintance of the projects, and increasing the participation of
women in the project design and implementation. Part C. Institutional Development, which is the
provision of financing for: 1. Providing training for the SIF personnel to promote: (a) participation of the
intermediary beneficiaries in the design, implementation and maintenance of projects; and (b) understanding
on the part of the intermediary beneficiaries and of the direct (end) beneficiaries of the need for
environmental protection measures in the projects, with a Bank contribution of US$900,000, which covers
100% of the training and technical assistance costs. 2. Development of the SIF's institutional capacity and
its management information system, including equipment procurement and utilization, with a Bank
contribution of US$600,000 and recognizing 100% of the external expenditures and 75% of those effected
in Guatemala. 3. Making: (a) annual evaluations of a sample of projects that will include the intermediary
beneficiaries' and end beneficiaries' assessments of the projects; and (b) annual audits of project
procurement; and 4. Performance of an impact evaluation of the Project.

         3.2     Critical Evaluation of the Definition of the Objectives (Importance for the Country's
Social Policy and Strategy)
         The objectives were the highest priority for the country and were specifically included in the
Government's social strategy expressed in the official plans and in the Peace Agreements, which contain
the nation project required to bring the internal armed confrontation of over 36 years to an end and build a
democratic, inclusive and just society. Other bodies such as UNDP, organizations of civil society, bodies
representing the Maya groups, universities and research centers, are in unanimous agreement on the
urgency of meeting the unsatisfied basic social needs of the rural poor by means of effective social
investment. In the same way, democratic, responsible and committed community participation in the
running of public affairs and in the generation of employment is generally acknowledged to be a means for
achieving equity, putting an end to longstanding exclusion and building a democratic society from the
grassroots up. The state of poverty or extreme poverty in which the majority of Guatemalans live calls for
immediate actions of the types financed by the Project as part of a general effort, in all spheres, public and
private, to ensure that the country can live in peace and achieve prosperity.

         3.3     Evaluation of the Initial Design for Achieving the Objectives
         The three components--projects, community empowerment and development of the SIF--proved
to be necessary and complementary. Without the effective execution of projects that quickly meet the needs
felt by the communities, the people become frustrated, while these projects' implementation is the best
school for developing self-management of development. The other component, training of organizations of
intermediary beneficiaries, strengthens the execution of projects and is an end in itself, since it is the avenue
for formalization of civil organizations that go on to attain legal status. If to this is added the training for
maintenance and sustainability, as is the case with water projects to be managed by the users, this
component is essential. Despite the fact that it was included in the original design, the total funding
effectively provided was not sufficient to support the community training, which is a high-cost undertaking,
so it was necessary to include the cost of training for maintenance in the implementation costs of each
project. The last component, strengthening of the SIF, was covered. Although it is the Government's
responsibility to pay for the administration of the SIF's investment, it is always necessary to include an
allocation in the loan for those inputs such as technological development, information technology and
personnel training that are rarely included at adequate levels in developing countries' national budgets. In
retrospect, no provision was included for possible participation by the SIF in helping the most vulnerable
groups to mitigate disasters, so that it was necessary to adjust the Project to enable it to invest in


                                                      - 42 -

emergency situations, applying flexible procedures, as was the case after the severe devastation caused by
Hurricane Mitch in 1998.

4.       ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES: POVERTY ALLEVIATION                              [3]


         4.1      Improvement of Living Conditions. The first objective, to continue supporting the
Government's efforts to alleviate poverty by means of the implementation of projects (subprojects);
targeting the poorest areas and population groups of Guatemala was satisfactorily accomplished taking into
account the projects executed and the achievement of the geographic targeting in poor municipalities and
socioeconomic sectors associated with lack of services and pervasive poverty.

         4.1.1    Targeting by Municipal Poverty Category
         The Municipal Poverty Map prepared by the SIF is the Government's most reliable tool for
targeting social investment. It was prepared using data from the 1994 Census taking into account five
variables for measuring unmet basic social needs (UBN), and was updated at the start of Project SIF/IBRD
4407-GU. The municipalities with the highest poverty indexes were identified and "microregions" were
selected for locating promoters who then took charge of the local demand, organization, empowerment and
project-granting processes. The outcomes demonstrate that the SIF was effective in impacting the poorest
municipalities and in accomplishing the goals agreed on with the Bank, as Table 4.1.2 below demonstrates,
since the Category A (Extreme Poverty) municipalities received 18.49% of the projects and 20.50% of the
entire investment, compared with targets of 20% in both instances; Category B (Severe Poverty), received
27.86% of the projects and 27.50% of the funds, compared with targets of 20% in both cases; Category C
(Regular Poverty) received 24.59% of the projects and 23.50% of the funds, well below the target of 40%
maximum; Category D (Relative Poverty), 21.12% of projects and 20.37% of funds, against targets of
12%; and Category E (Low Poverty), 7.94% and 8.58%, respectively, i.e. less than the 8% maximum
target set in the performance indicators. Taken together, the poorest municipalities, Categories A and B,
received 46% of the projects and 47% of the funds, in other words, definitely more than the total of 40%
agreed with IBRD. In any event, in the municipalities rated as least poverty-stricken, the SIF financed
projects for the rural communities identified as the poorest in each municipality, which means that the
projects and funds effectively reached the target population.

                             4.1.2 TABLE SIF/IBRD 4407-GU PROJECTS
      NUMBER OF PROJECTS, BENEFICIARIES AND AMOUNT OF INVESTMENT BY
                                 MUNICIPAL POVERTY CATEGORY
CATEGORY           No. of         %          No. of                  %          4407
                   PROJECTS                  BENEFICIARIES                      INVESTMENT
A                  543            18.49      885,604                 19.01      97,184,501.82       20.05
B                 818             27.86      1,128,581               24.23      133,314,034.94      27.50
C                  722            24.59      1,255,939               26.97      113,906,967.35      23.50
D                  620            21.12      1,088,639               23.37      98,750,158.25       20.37
E                 233             7.94       298,705                 6.41       41,611,834.67       8.58
TOTALS             2,936          100.00     4,657,468               100.00     484,767,497         100.00

         Chart 4.1.3 below shows in black the targets set in the Loan Agreement. It can be seen that the
percentages of projects and amounts financed for the communities in Category A (the poorest) coincide
almost exactly with the Loan Agreement target. The green shows that the percentages of projects and
funds are very similar for Categories A and E, and much higher for the lower poverty categories.




                                                     - 43 -

                                   4.1.3 CHART. TARGETING BY POVERTY
                                                      INDEX
                          45                                                   No. of Projects
                          40
                          35                                                   Contracted
                                                                               Investment
                          30                                                   AGREEMENT
                          25                                                   TARGET

                          20
                          15
                          10
                           5
                           0
                                   A           B          C           D           E



        4.1.4     Targeting by Sector. The design of the Project envisaged targeting by sector but based
on the rural communities' priority requests and their integration with the policies and available resources of
the Ministries with responsibility for the respective sectors. The Project was intended to help increase the
coverage and quality of the infrastructure, goods and services in education, health, water supply and
sanitation and road communications. The outcome shows that this targeting was in fact implemented, and
with the addition of productive infrastructure, environmental improvement and community empowerment
projects, which were also added as sectors to be covered.

                               4.1.5 TABLE. INVESTMENT BY SECTOR
                             No.            %           No.             %            QUETZALS       %
EDUCATION                     1,205         41.01       670,730         14.40        169,773,021.36   35.02
ROAD                          259           8.82        536955          11.53        88,379,783.60    18.23
INFRASTRUCTURE
ENVIRONMENT                   226           7.70        107,216         2.30         28,148,083.62    5.81
TOTALS                        2,936         100         4,657,468       100          484,767,497.03   100
NB:     The numbers and amounts include preinvestment contracts. Totals cannot be given for beneficiaries
        because of duplications in projects and preinvestments in individual communities.

        Chart 4.1.7 demonstrates that: (1) the most projects were implemented and the most money
invested in education; (2) the number of projects and the amount invested were less in health, but more
users were reached; (3) the water supply, infrastructure and environmental projects were relatively more
costly than those in education and health, and (4) only 2.40% of the total was spent on community
empowerment (training, organization and legal personality for the communities), although this is an area
that normally requires more funding.

        4.1.6     Outcomes and Global Benefits
        The SIF achieved significant results that improved the coverage of, access to and the quality of the
basic social services. A total of 2,936 projects were financed and completed, at a contracted cost of Q
484,767,497.03 from IBRD 4407-GU and government counterpart funds; in addition, the beneficiaries
contributed Q 46,973,116.79 and the municipalities and NGOs Q 6,247,896. In terms of U.S. dollars
adjusted to the exchange rates in effect at the time of each reimbursement made by IBRD, the Bank's
investment was US$50 million, i.e. the full amount of the loan. Benefits were obtained for improving the
health, education, water and sanitation, environment, training and empowerment and road communication
situation of a total of 4,657,468 users. The SIF contribution to the Government's social investment was a
major factor in the improvement and expansion of the coverage and quality of basic services.



                                                       - 44 -

                          4.1.7 CHART. INVESTMENT BY ECONOMIC SECTOR

                                                    INV E S T M E N T B Y S O C I O E C O N O M IC S EC T O R
                                                               S I F / I B R D 4 4 0 7 - G U P R O J E C T S

                                                 9 0

                                                 8 0

                                                 7 0

                                    PERCENTAGE   6 0

                                                 5 0

                                                 4 0

                                                 3 0

                                                 2 0

                                                 1 0

                                                   0
                                                                                     W A T ER        R O A D    P R O D U C -           E M P O W -
                                                     HEA L T H         E D U C .                                               ENV .
                                                                                    & S A N IT .    INFRA .       TIV IT Y              ERMENT

                    PROJECTS %                        1 9 . 2 4          4 1 . 0 4     1 0 . 2 5       8 . 8 2     9 . 0 3     7.7        3 . 9 2

                    BENEFICIA RIES %                  8 0 . 8 3          14.4            6 . 0 5     1 1 . 5 3     2 . 4 3     2.3        2 . 4 7

                    S IF/IBRD INV E S T M E N T       1 1 . 6 8          3 5 . 0 2     1 3 . 6 9     1 8 . 2 3    1 3 . 1 7    5 . 8 1     2.4




         4.2      Disaster Emergency Relief: MITCH. The SIF demonstrated that its procedures were
sufficiently flexible, efficient and effective to participate in the "100 Days Plan" that the Government
carried out in 1998-99 to take care of the emergency situation created by Hurricane Mitch, which destroyed
or put out of use more than 40% of the country's road infrastructure. In addition to the Government's own
funds, the Bank agreed with the SIF that Q 14.24 million of project funds (IBRD funds and counterpart)
could be used for rebuilding 32 bridges and 7 feeder roads plus the preparation of 8 feasibility studies for
road infrastructure projects that were subsequently executed by the FIS using funding from other sources.
Over 50%e of the projects and funds were put into Category A (Extreme Poverty) municipalities, while the
municipalities in Category D (Relative Poverty) and E (Low Poverty) received less than 10% in terms of
both projects and funds. In total, an estimated 332,000 disaster victims were benefited.
         4.3      Health and Nutrition. In the health field, the guiding policies were: (1) to target the
investment on the rural areas; and (2) to provide infrastructure at the level of "convergence centers" which
are the minimum care units in primary health, and then health posts, which are the next category up at the
rural level, for a total of 170 buildings at an investment by SIF/IBRD 4407 of Q 31,388 million to benefit
673,271 persons (boys and girls, men and women). In addition, 269 health centers or posts were equipped
at an investment of some Q 8,815 million, and 21 projects provided 2,473 latrines for 15,839 beneficiaries.
Six disease control campaigns were carried out, medications were furnished for 59 community pharmacies,
and training was provided for 829 traditional birth attendants (training, organization and provision of
equipment) and also to 1,330 health promoters or paramedics. This investment represents an important
contribution to improvement of the health of the rural poor.
         4.3.1    Education.                     In the education sector the SIF contributed effectively to expansion of the
coverage and improvement of the quality of the education provided. A total of 587 schools were built in
rural areas, with 1,477 classrooms, while 533 schools were equipped with a total of 127,470 chairs. In all
Q135,122 million was invested in infrastructure and Q 27,444 in furniture. These schools were built in
rural areas generally excluded from government work and in response to the request of the communities
themselves. In coordination with the Ministry of Education, training and development were provided for
193 teachers and 92 principals, and 16 teachers were hired on a temporary basis pending Ministry funding
of their positions. An important task was the provision of 81 municipalities with community libraries to
serve local students and teachers. All in all, Q 6,567,212 was invested in the education sector by Project
IBRD 4407-GU (loan funds plus counterpart).
         4.3.2    Road Infrastructure. One of the factors that weighs heavily in the exclusion of rural
people is the lack of road communication (feeder roads) connecting their communities with the municipal




                                                                                  - 45 -

road system. There SIF's policy in this sector has accordingly concentrated on building roads and bridges
that will open the way for vehicular traffic for trading purposes and to give access to public services. In
this way, 44 feeder roads representing a distance of 245.72 km and 103 bridges were built and 121
feasibility studies were made. The total invested by SIF/IBRD 4407 was Q 88,379,783.
         4.3.3   Infrastructure for Production/Productivity.         Motivation to increase productivity is a
decisive factor for overcoming rural poverty anchored for generations in traditional subsistence methods.
The policies in this sector have accordingly focused on transmitting new technologies using irrigation to
product nontraditional crops. Fifty classrooms or workshops were accordingly built in rural training
centers, and equipment was provided for nine of them, with investments of the order of Q 9,925,981 and Q
1,325,754, respectively, Sixty-nine mini-irrigation systems were set up for 4,086 irrigated hectares and 40
storage and primary processing centers were built, which for the first time will enable the poor farmers to
manage their products after harvesting and to obtain the value added by processing. In the future, these
projects ought to be supported by means of strategic alliances that will guarantee markets for their
products. To support this investment and the farmers' shift to higher-value nontraditional crops, Q
1,351,738 was used to fund 138 months of instructor time.
         In addition, standardized plans cannot be used for building training centers or for putting in
mini-irrigation systems; Q 2,068,972 was therefore invested in 107 preinvestment studies, making a grand
total of Q 63,820,213 invested under this head by Project SIF/IBRD 4407-GU.
         4.3.4   Water and Sanitation. Water supply is a source of large numbers of community
requests, and the SIF's policy has been to construct primarily gravity-fed supply systems. However, the
limited availability of sources, the lack of standards and the difficulty of obtaining ownership of sites for
locating wells, make this type of project conflict-ridden, costly and difficult to implement. However, the
SIF managed to construct 130 systems with 15,271 household or community connections, thereby
significantly expanding coverage. In addition, 18 sewer projects with 4,095 connections were financed and
four drainage systems were constructed. It is also a fact that the water systems have to be adapted to the
mountainous terrain of the rural areas, which means that each project has to have its feasibility and
environmental protection study. As a result, 149 preinvestment studies were made. The total contributed
by SIF/IBRD Project 4407-GU was Q 66,365,084, of which Q 44,865,089 was invested in water supply.
These figures fall far short of what is needed to meet the demand.
         4.3.5   Environment. Two main concerns were behind the investment in the environment sector:
protection and conservation. Two protect the rural communities' own environment, 78 public laundry
facilities were built that eliminated the improvised arrangements that polluted water sources since they
tended to be located in streams and springs. In the same way, solid waste (plastic, etc.) disposal is
environmentally destructive and most be restricted. In light of the lack of local rules and standards, the SIF
at least successfully implemented one project that will have a demonstration effect. For conserving the
environment, the product in greatest demand is the one produced by the improved stoves project; these
stoves considerably reduce wood consumption (with a noteworthy economic benefit) and eliminate harm to
the pulmonary health of children and entire families due to smoke inhalation. A total of 27,428 stoves were
produced, which was definitely the largest number financed by any public or private agency in Guatemala.
The need to restore forests threatened by wood consumption led the SIF to afforest or reforest 217 has with
the sowing of 887,792 small trees and to devote four agroforestry projects for the sowing of fruit trees.
Both the afforestation and the agroforestry projects include training for the rational exploitation of these
crops.
         The SIF is committed to a policy of strengthening environmental management. An Environmental
Technical Unit has been set up in the Fund for the "coordination of the environmental monitoring system."
The Unit has a general coordinator and another three officers responsible for formulation and training;
appraisal and management; and monitoring and ex post evaluation. Based on the evaluation and
assessment of the most frequent environmental impacts a new environmental classification was established
for the programs in the SIF's catalog and environmental guidelines were prepared for the implementation of


                                                     - 46 -

projects, this document being made up of seven general and 43 specific guidelines. The Environmental
Technical Specifications to be observed for all infrastructure projects were prepared, for inclusion in the
respective Operations Manual. The training of all operating and support personnel, in both the Central
Office and the departmental offices, comprised four topics: (i) basic environmental concepts; (ii)
environmental assessment; (iii) compliance with national environmental legislation; and (iv) internal
environmental procedures. It has also been ensured that environmental topics will be included in the terms
of reference for community training, both in the "training days" for the use and maintenance of systems,
facilities and so on resulting from projects, and the training provided for strengthening the local
development associations.
         The necessary instruments for the environmental monitoring of projects have been produced and
periodic ex post environmental evaluations have been made of finished projects. Arrangements have been
made for permanent dissemination of national environmentl legislation together with monitoring of
compliance therewith. Support has also been provided for administrative procedures and technical aspects
relating to the contracting, preparation and submission of environmental impact assessment (EIAs) to the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MARN) and coordination ahs been maintained with the
Ministry of Environment, the National Council of Protected Areas, the National Council of Environmental
Training and the Directorate General of Roads. An environmental manual has been produced for all the
SIF's catalog of programs; this manual presents, for each program, a list of the most frequent typical
environmental impacts and details the steps to be taken to mitigate them.

5.       ACHIEVEMENT OF OTHER SOCIAL OBJECTIVES
         5.1      Policies and Outcomes: Community Empowerment. The SIF Law mandates the
granting of nonreimbursable loans to corporate bodies, which include the Social Investment Fund
Enterprises (EFISs) and others of a nonprofit nature. The SIF's policy for Project IBRD 4407-GU
consisted in progressively organizing communities into permanent corporate bodies, viz. Local
Development Associations (LDAs), since the EFISs only have legal existence while they are implementing
an SIF project, after which they have to be dissolved or converted into another form. Although the EFISs
are valuable instruments, it was decided to make use of the new powers granted by national legislation to
create nonprofit associations capable of swift and flexible response to needs. For these associations to
manage SIF funds, which belong to the State, the Office of the Comptroller of Accounts of the Nation has
to grant special authority to each individual LDA to audit the use of national funds.
         The SIF decided that in order to identify needed investments in the pockets of most acute poverty it
was necessary to establish microregions, to which end the following procedure was used: (i) first the SIF
identified the poorest communities in the country by means of a poverty map developed using 1994 census
data, with the intention that the investments would be targeted at communities in the priority A (Extreme
Poverty) and B (Severe Poverty) municipalities; (ii) once the participating communities are identified, the
SIF organizes participatory planning workshops to identify projects considered priorities by the
communities; (iii) based on the needs of the communities in each microregion, they are given training in
organizational strengthening, gender issues, working with other financial entities, community participation
in selecting executing agencies and entities, contracting, supervision, maintenance and operation of the
resulting investments. An unexpected benefit is that certain LDAs have been hired by other communities
for their training.




                                                      - 47 -

                     5.2 TABLE. COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROJECTS
      SUMMARY TABLE OF ORGANIZATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER THE IBRD
           4407-GU PROGRAM AND EXECUTED BY THE COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION AND TRAINING
                                                      PROGRAM
        No. of        No. of         No. of          Type of Program            Description             Total No. of
       Projects    Communities    Municipalities                                                          Persons
                                                                                                         Trained
          55           550             55            Organizational      Training of leaders from          3,300
                                                      Development        various communities to
                                                                              form an LDA
          60           480             60            Organizational      Training of leaders who          14,400
                                                    Development with      are Water and Mini-
                                                      Conversion of      Irrigation beneficiaries.
                                                         EFISs            Legal Personality and
                                                                         conversion of EFISs into
                                                                         LDAs that manage the
                                                                            respective project
         115          1,030           115                                                                 17,700

         5.3     Policies and Outcomes in Ethnic Group Equity. According to the 1994 census data, the
populations of a total of 145 municipalities were made up of over 50% "indigenous peoples"
(nomenclature used in the census), while those of 162 other municipalities were reported as having
nonindigenous majorities (fewer than 50%). Thus, while Project SIF/IBRD 4407-GU did not explicitly
have an ethnic objective, the actual outcome has been that by serving the rural areas (where the population
is primarily Maya, Garífuna or Xinca) the benefit has been received by the indigenous communities. In this
way the SIF has effectively pursued an affirmative action policy in favor of the country's ethnic groups.
         5.4     Chart: Comparison of Outcomes in Ethnic Equity.                    This chart shows that the
proportion of municipalities with predominantly nonindigenous populations is greater than the number
where indigenous peoples predominate, while the number of projects and the amount invested are in
proportion with the number of municipalities and not, therefore, with the number of beneficiaries, who were
relatively more in the predominantly indigenous municipalities.

         5.4 CHART. COMPARISON OF OUTCOMES IN TERMS OF ETHNIC EQUITY

                     PERCENTAGES SHOWING RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN 5 VARIABLES THAT COMPARE THE
                       PREVAILING SITUATION AND SIF/IBRD II INVESTM ENT BETWEEN INDIGENOUS AND
                                              NONINDIGENOUS POPULATION
                                                                               Indigenous      Nonindigenous


                60

                50

                40

                30

                20

                10

                 0
                       Population   % Municipalities   % Projects   % Beneficiaries   % Investment




         5.5     Policies and Outcomes in Gender Equity. Gender equity is positively promoted by the
SIF mainly through four policies: (1) in the project management procedures, which include methods that
require the women first to participate separately from the men, and then later jointly, in the community
committees; (2) in the managing bodies of the legal entities set up, which are requiring a growing
proportion of women; (3) certain projects favor freeing up of the time that women, adults and girls, spend
on traditional household activities and, consequently open up possibilities for a different role from that of




                                                        - 48 -

dependency which is the general pattern in rural areas. The projects concerned are those focusing on
improved stoves, preventive health care, forestry and wastewater systems: and (4) projects that are devoted
exclusively to women in order to potentiate their new occupations and roles, such as the Community Banks
financed by CABEI. Table 5.7 presents data on projects funded by Project 4407-GU that specifically
benefit women.

                           5.6 TABLE. PROJECTS BENEFITING WOMEN
SECTOR             TYPE OF            No. of              No. of        COMMUNITY               TOTAL
                   PROJECT            PROJECTS            BENEFS.       CONTRIBUTION            SIF/IBRD 4407
                                                                                                INVESTMENT
HEALTH             TRG. OF            6                   121,027       96,500.00               1,418,712.60
AND                TRADIT-
NUTRITION          IONAL
                   MIDWIVES
WATER              SYSTEMS            130                 93,734        10,437,348              44,365,088.79
ENVIRON-           IMPROVED           214                 84,992        2,060,187.00            25,073,003.63
MENT               STOVES
ENVIRON-           PUBLIC             16                  21,205        128,284.60              1,205,405.42
MENT               LAUNDRY
                   FACILITIES
TOTALS                                366                 320,967       12,722,319.00           72,562,210.44

         The SIF participated in the World Bank "Progenial," using Program SIF/IBRD-4407-GU as frame
of reference and working example. The opportunity was also used to present the SIF's results at Latin
American level in the meetings held in Washington and Nicaragua in 2003, with emphasis on having
incorporated the needs of both men and women in the setting of community priorities and the development
of awareness for promoting women as social participants with the right to speak and vote in community
affairs.
         In addition, the following activities were carried out: (i) preparation of field instruments for the
creation of gender equity indicators; (ii) training of field personnel in the gender equity concept; (iii)
implementation of technical strategies for opening up spaces for effective participation by women in the
LDAs; and (iv) strengthening of the Community Organization and Training Program methodology as a
means for furthering the awareness-rousing and training process.
         By way of outcomes the following are worthy of mention:
         1.      68 Local Development Associations made up of men and women on an equal footing as
regards participation and decisionmaking.
         2.      49 LDA management committees made up of men and women having the same rights and
obligations.
         3.      798 meetings held at community level with active participation of women and men under
equal circumstances and conditions.

5.7      Policies and Outcomes in Modernization of the State
         5.7.1   Decentralization           As a result, the work of the SIF with Project IBRD 4407-GU
served to strengthen the operational existence of local bodies and paved the way for the new legal concept
now incorporated in the legislation: the community. The SIF also effectively fostered the linking of the
municipal governments with the community bodies, thereby making a start on a politico-administrative task
necessary for democracy and of major significance for the furtherance of development. It should be noted
that the SIF's work on the decentralization front was strengthened by the training of its personnel in this



                                                       - 49 -

topic, especially by means of internships in countries with more experience in the field and also a seminar
on the new decentralization laws financed with SIF/IBRD 4407-GU funds.
         5.7.2    Deconcentration of Operations.             During the implementation of the Project the
deconcentration of the SIF was completed with the establishment of 22 Departmental Offices and four
Suboffices. Each of these offices was equipped with a Pentium 3 computer and a laser-printer and some
form of transportation, in most cases a motorcycle. As a minimum they are staffed with a manager or
submanager, a promotion officer and a monitoring executive. The functions delegated to these offices are :
(a) promotion of community-level projects and relations with municipal authorities and local sector
leadership; (b) acceptance of requests; (c) participation in the starting and completion of works, and
monitoring of the execution of projects. In parallel with the execution of Project IBRD 4407-GU,
PRORIENTE and SIF/KfW were launched, which considerably deepened the deconcentration, and the
contracting of projects by community organizations and municipalities was effected on a decentralized
basis.
         5.7.3    Personnel Training and Development. The SIF was greatly benefited by the institutional
strengthening component included in the Project, by means of which 12 internships were funded for 33 staff
members in institutions possessing advanced experience with policies and processes of interest for
Guatemala and the mission assigned to the SIF. The institutions studied were FONCODES of Peru, FIS of
Bolivia, FONAES and SEDESOL of Mexico, and PRODUZIR 2 and RENASCER of the Ministry of
Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC) of Brazil. The topics covered included decentralization,
work with indigenous groups, community participation and participation of women in projects. The
participants arranged meetings to pass on what they had learned to the rest of the personnel involved, and
each one wrote a report to record their experience and follow up on it as appropriate and, in a number of
cases they had opportunities to apply what they had learned. Among the positive applications the following
are worthy of note: (a) microplanning and decentralization: preparation of the Methodological Manual for
the SIF/KfW Quiché Program, of the Plan for the "Strengthening of the Office in the Department of
Quiche", and the formulation of instructions for the prequalification of contractors; and the holding of the
Workshop on the New Decentralization Laws with 40 participants; and (b) learning about Panama's
experience in the environmental management of projects was of fundamental importance for establishing
the bases of the Environmental Technical Unit in the Guatemalan SIF. As a result, the "Environmental
Adviser" position was replaced by a full Unit with defined functions and permanent staff that is responsible
for establishing and verifying compliance with the guidelines and specifications that make it possible to
prevent or lessen the magnitude of negative environmental impacts caused by projects.    [4]




6.       PROJECTS WITH PROBLEMS IN THEIR EXECUTION
         In the execution of Project SIF/IBRD 4407-GU difficulties arose in 99 projects due to
nonperformance on the part of the contractors, as a result of which the SIF had to terminate the respective
contracts unilaterally, enforce the bonds and institute the appropriate legal actions. So as not to adversely
affect the communities concerned, in accordance with a policy set by the SIF the contracts with these
complications were re-let to be completed by other contractors, with the new contract being assigned the
same code as the original one but with the addition of a ".5." By this means the SIF was able to have 84
projects brought to a satisfactory completion, while a further three were completed under other codes but
still with SIF/IBRD 4407-GU financing, bringing the number of projects with the problems resolved to 87,
i.e. 87.88% of those which encountered difficulties with the first contract awarded for their execution.
Another seven projects were completed by the SIF with funding from other sources, or else by the
municipality concerned or an NGO without additional cost to the SIF. Addition of these to the preceding
87 makes a total of 94 problems completely resolved. Only five of the 99 (two of them preinvestment
projects) are still in litigation to recover the money paid out and have not been completed; these represent
5.5% of the problem cases and 0.17% of the total (2,936) projects financed by SIF/IBRD 4407-GU.



                                                       - 50 -

Annex 3, List of Projects with Problems,99/ See Annex 3, "List of Projects that had Execution Problems."/
lists the projects with problems with the respective original codes (ending in "0") together with the ".5"
codes that were used for completing them, or such other codes for other sources as applicable. It should be
noted that the lists and accounts of the projects effectively financed by Project SIF/IRBD 4407-GU include
the projects that had problems, but with their ".5" code, while these are recorded in this report with the
original first digits plus ".05" to keep them together and not to duplicate the entries.

7.        PERFORMANCE OF THE PARTIES IN THE MANAGEMENT OF THE PROJECT.
          7.1     Government of Guatemala
                  7.1.1    Preparation.     The Government's participation in the preparation of the Project
was satisfactory. All the requirements of the Republic of Guatemala were met, including the securing of
positive opinions from SEGEPLAN and the Monetary Board, together with approval of the Congress of the
Republic by qualified majority. The Poverty Map was updated and has continued to serve as the main
basis for decisionmaking concerning geographic targeting of investments for alleviating rural poverty. The
SIF team preparing the Project included technical personnel experienced in international financing,
planning, operations and technology for social investment. The SIF's top management supported all the
preparatory actions, including the timely contracting of preparatory studies and their integration into the
SIF methodology.
          7.1.2   Implementation. The implementation of Project 4407-GU was consistent with the agreed
design in the great design in the large majority of processes. There were no disagreements with IBRD
regarding objectives and compliance with the Project Agreement, although there were some differences of
opinion about certain contracting processes and timely submission of audit and evaluation reports.
Reference has already been made to the efficiency demonstrated in the matter of execution, as evidenced by
the fact that 81% of the Project was executed in just two years and that they exceeded the annual targets
with the exception of the processing of evaluation stages. The SIF's efficiency, measured in terms of the
ratio of administrative expenses to total expenditures, was Q 6.57 for administration and Q 93.43 for
investment in projects in 1999, definitely an exceptional accomplishment in the year when almost half of
the loan was disbursed, while in 2000 it was Q 14.11 and Q 85.89, when one third of 4407-GU was
executed, after which it was Q 11.75 and Q 88.25 in 2001, Q 16.43 and Q 83.57 in 2002, and Q 23.98 and
Q 76.02 in 2003, when efficiency declined during the execution of the remaining 0.94% of the loan.
          7.1.3   Quality of the works. The quality of the infrastructure projects carried out by the SIF
has been generally acknowledged but this also means that their cost is higher than that of works done by
municipalities and NGOs. For the majority of project prototypes approved by the sector supervisory
authorities are available, while for other cases, such as water supply and roads, satisfactory feasibility
studies are required. In point of fact, the evaluations made after construction and with the projects in use,
by both the SIF and outside contractors, confirm that the projects have met a genuine need of the
communities concerned and that a high percentage of them, over 85%, were of sound quality and fully
capable of meeting operating requirements.     [5]  Similar quality levels have been recorded for equipment
and services such as training, although in the latter case the evaluation was based on the beneficiaries'
satisfaction with the training received. [6]


          There are areas that need improvement to ensure the efficiency of the SIF. These are connected
with the executing entity-supervisor-monitoring interaction. Improvement in these areas could considerably
reduce contractor nonperformance, which affected 3.37% of the projects, for the most part involving social
or economic infrastructure. The need for legal action by the SIF in 99 projects and the steps taken by the
SIF to correct the situation resulted in only five of said projects remaining uncompleted, i.e. just 0.17% of
the total of 2,936 projects, and two of them are feasibility studies that proved unnecessary, making the
ultimate outcome virtually zero errors in total efficiency commitment.




                                                      - 51 -

         7.2      The World Bank
         7.2.1    Preparation. The World Bank prepared the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) which
essentially compiled the country's social investment needs and the SIF's capabilities. This document was
drawn up with the SIF and negotiated with the Government of Guatemala and served as basis for the Loan
Agreement and the Project Agreement. According to the SIF, this was a most valuable document that
provided guidance for the actual implementation of the Project.
         7.2.2    Implementation. A total of 36 missions visited the SIF, plus one more for the closing of
the Project. These missions provided guidance and necessary support without any major differences with
the SIF arising, except for one--on the procurement manual--which failed to arrive at constructive
agreements. The SIF benefited from observations in financial audit reports and audit reports on physical
works, together with comments and recommendations concerning information technology, rural roads,
decentralization, compliance with Bank procedures and rules, gender issues and the completion report.
Unfortunately, in some cases no aide memoire was produced recording the SIF's recommendations and
observations. The successive Task Managers responded promptly to questions raise during the
administrative and procedural work the SIF had to take care of to ensure smooth implementation, and it
must be acknowledged that the support received from the staff of the Bank's Guatemala office was of truly
premium quality.

8.       SUSTAINABILITY
         8.1      The SIF. Sustainability of the SIF as an institution is feasible and highly probable given
the commitment of Guatemala's new Government to social investment, rural development and the
alleviation of poverty. In addition, there is the fact that the SIF has demonstrated efficiency and produced
good results notwithstanding the complications deriving from the politicizing it suffers as a result of general
elections being held every four years. The Fund was originally established in 1993 for a duration of eight
years, which was extended to 12 by Decree No. 2-2000 of February 23, 2000, when the previous
Government took office. This decree was declared unconstitutional in January 2003 due to a change in the
requirements to be met by the President of the SIF and because it had not been approved by a two-thirds
majority of Deputies; however, in a reaction not often seen, all the parliamentary groupings united and
overturned that decision, approving Decree No. 03-2003 which extended the life of the SIF to 13 years,
expiring on May 31, 2006. This demonstrates the widely held conviction that the SIF is effective in the
mission entrusted to it, which is to improve the living conditions of the rural poor.
         In addition, the SIF currently has financing in the amount of US$50 million, utilization of which
will require operations extending over at least the next two years. In any event, a new operation with the
World Bank is already under negotiation, which will require assurance that the SIF will remain legally in
existence until its completion.
         8.2      The Projects. The sustainability of the projects financed by the SIF is assured in the
majority of the infrastructure cases by means of agreements with the supervisory ministries for the sector
concerned. It is less certain in water and other projects the operation and maintenance of which are handled
by the communities themselves. Although a substantial effort has been put into training the local
organizations and tying them in with the municipal governments, the right lessons still have to be learned,
the training needs to be expanded and continuing emphasis must be placed on procedures to ensure firmer
links with local governments.
         9.       FUTURE OPERATION WITH IBRD. A third borrowing from IBRD in an amount of
US$70 million would support the SIF's social investment program for the period between 2004 and 2006,
given that the SIF has installed capacity for executing it in three years. The project would finance three
components: (1) alleviation of poverty through strengthening of priority sectors such as water supply and
sanitation, health, rural roads, education, production and productivity, and environment; (2) community
empowerment.



                                                      - 52 -

Footnotes

[1]"Project" with an upper case "P" refers to the complete Project IBRD 4407-GU, while "project" with a lower case
"p" refers to the subprojects financed by the Project.
[2]The preparation and drafting were under the responsibility of the Chief Technical Adviser, Dr. F. José Monsanto
D., with the support of Director of International Cooperation, Lic. Marina Sagastume, and the Director of
Planning, Lic. Neftalí Hernández, with inputs from the Directorates of Finance and of Information Technology.
[3]All the data on projects were taken from the SIF project information system. See Annex 1, "Projects Financed by
IBRD Loan Agreement 4407-GU, including Government of Guatemala Counterpart."
[4]See Annex in original document: "Institutional Strengthening Progress."
[5]Cf. "Informe Final, Primera Parte, Evaluación Expost de los Proyectos Financiados por el FIS con Recursos de
Préstamo BIRF, KfW y OECF," [Final Report, First Part, Evaluation of the Projects Financed by the SIF with
IBRD, KfW and OECD Loan Funds], Consultora Multipsa, August 2001; and "Informe de Evaluación de Impacto
Expost de Proyectos Terminados con Financiamiento del Préstamo BIRF 4407-GU a1 3 de Septiembre 2003,"
[Evaluation Report of the Impact of Projects Completed with Financing from IBRD Loan 4407-GU as of
September 3, 2003], SIF, Control, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (UCOSE), September 2003. ATP-SIF
Archives.
[6]Cf. `Informe Final, Segunda Parte, Evaluación Expost de los Proyectos Financiados poir el SIF con Recursos de
Préstamo BIRF, KfW y OECF," Consultora Multipsa, August 2001. [Final Report, Second Part, Evaluation of the
Projects Financed by the SIF with IBRD, KfW and OECD Loan Funds], Consultora Multipsa, August 2001,
ATP-SIF Archives.




                                                        - 53 -

- 54 -

