Report No. PID6721
Project Name                     Guatemala-Second Social Investment Fund (+)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Task Manager                     Juliana Weissman
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       GTPE40198
Borrower                         The Republic of Guatemala
Implementing Agency              Fondo de Inversion Social (FIS)
Segunda Avenida, Veinte-13, Zona 10
Edificio los Arcos
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Phone: (502) 367-2879;
Fax: (502) 367-2890
Date this PID Prepared           August 11, 1998
Appraisal Date                   September 1, 1998
Project Board Date               October 15, 1998
1. Country and Sector Background
Guatemala has the second worst GINI coefficient among 64 low to middle income
countries which is accompanied by widespread poverty akin to that of much
poorer nations. In 1989, the poorest 40 percent of the population shared
barely 8.5 percent of income while the top 10 percent received almost 47
percent of income. Poverty is concentrated in rural areas, among indigenous
peoples and skewed toward women. It afflicts over 75 percent of the
population, 86 percent of the rural population, 93 percent of indigenous
people and 70 percent of female-headed households (49 percent of which live in
extreme poverty). Geographic isolation and the effects of prolonged conflict
on their assets and communities compound the poverty affecting rural people.
Poverty in Guatemala stems in part from unequal access to productive assets,
notably land, and chronic low investment in human capital. At last count, 2.5
percent of farmers controlled 65 percent of the land, while 16 percent of the
land was cultivated by 88 percent of farmers. Credit is scarce in rural areas
for all but the largest producers. There is a historic lack of investment in
public and private investment in basic rural infrastructure - roads,
electricity, communications, water and sanitation. Education and health have
received less than half the regional average share of GDP for decades, and
this spending has had an urban bias.
The CAS emphasized the need to assist Guatemala in making the peace stick by
supporting efforts to form an inclusive nation. To this end, the CAS
emphasizes support for two development priorities which are directly related
to the proposed project. First, building social cohesion and strengthening
participatory decision-making by choosing, designing and implementing
subprojects in ways that foster inclusion through decentralized decision-
making, implementation and informed participation of beneficiaries and
strengthening communities. Second, reducing poverty and exclusion by
concentrating lending on improving access to sustainable productive



activities, expanding delivery of basic services and targeting the social
safety net to the poorest members of society. These priorities are being
supported by a lending program that includes Basic Education Reform, Rural and
Main Roads, Low-Income Barrios, Reconstruction and Local Development and the
proposed FIS II project. The FIS is one of the key components of the social
safety net because of its participatory decision-making and its ability to
reach remote impoverished areas with priority small-scale investments in
social and economic infrastructure and services. It complements the work of
the National Peace Fund (FONAPAZ) by reaching poor areas not included in the
former conflict areas (ZONAPAZ).
2. Project Objectives
The project would be the Bank's second loan to the SIF. It would continue to
support the Government's poverty alleviation efforts, target its investments
to the poorest areas and population groups in the country, and contribute to
participatory decision-making and decentralization by strengthening the
capacity of community-based organizations and local governments to define
problems, prioritize needs, plan and implement small-scale community-based
subprojects and ensure project sustainability by developing adequate
arrangements for subproject operations and maintenance. The project would
finance: (a) high priority social and economic infrastructure and
complementary goods and services including the establishment and strengthening
of village banks similar to those financed under the first project in which
women are the principal beneficiaries; (b) training and consultant assistance
to support capacity building in the communities; and (c) strengthening the
central and regional offices of the FIS, closer coordination with local
governments and line ministries, expost evaluation of completed subprojects
and beneficiary assessment, and the development of a coherent framework for
the social safety net. Progress toward these development objectives will be
monitored and assessed according to the key performance indicators outlined in
Annex 1 of the PAD.
3. Project Description
The project, whose total cost is estimated at US$64.0 million would be
implemented over a four-year period starting in 1999 and would have three
components:
A. Community-Based Subprojects: (1) Social and Economic Subprojects. The
project would support a wide range of community-based demand-driven proposals
including pre-feasibility studies for small-scale infrastructure and services
such as schools, health posts, water supply, sanitation and latrine systems,
bridges and access roads, seed credit for community banks and other productive
activities based on targeting and subproject selection criteria and procedures
set out in the Operational Manual and Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Community Banks would be limited to US$2.0 million total.
B. Community Training: The project would provide training linked to
individual subprojects to beneficiaries, staff of line ministries,
municipalities, and NGOs in participatory planning, problem prioritization,
subproject operations and maintenance, and environmental issues.
C. Institutional Development. To improve the quality of subprojects and
FIS targeting and responsiveness to beneficiary communities, the project would
-2 -



support the decentralization of FIS operations, training and consultant
assistance in participatory and strategic planning at the community level,
environmental concerns, community maintenance of subprojects, community banks
and efforts to increase the participation of women in FIS projects. The
project would also finance at least one project evaluation each year, a modest
amount of equipment and vehicles for subproject supervision and decentralized
operations; and development of a coherent framework for the social safety net.
4. Proposed Project Financing
Project costs are estimated at US$64.0 million. Bank financing would be for
US$50.0 million, the central Government would finance US$ 7.0 million, and the
beneficiaries would finance the remaining US$7.0 million.
5. Project Implementation
The Implementation period is four years, 1999-2003. FIS would be responsible
for the overall project management, including promotion, appraisal, financing,
and supervision of subprojects. FIS was established in 1992, and became
operational in 1993/94 with the support of the Bank (Ln. 3534-GU) in 1993.
Subprojects requested by the communities would be evaluated by FIS, and
implemented by local contractors or NGOs, which meet agreed eligibility
criteria. The community bank activities would be channeled by FIS through
experienced NGOs, which would manage credit and training programs. Training
related to community strengthening, including the operation and maintenance of
completed subprojects, would be contracted out, mainly to NGOs.
Many of the subprojects identified by the communities involve investments
which are traditionally the responsibility of the Ministries of Health (MOH),
Education (MOE), and Communication, Transport and Public Works (MCTOP). FIS
has interagency agreements with all of these to ensure that subprojects are
appropriate, and are not duplicating line ministry activities, as well as to
ensure the line agency's ability and willingness to fund recurrent costs not
covered by the beneficiary communities. In addition, FIS has official
agreements on coordination and cooperation with the other social funds. During
project preparation, the status of the agreements and FIS experience to date
were reviewed to identify ways to ensure more effective interagency
coordination.
Overall coordination and policy guidance would be provided by the Social
Cabinet through the Office of the Vice President of Guatemala, as well as by
the FIS Board of Directors (chaired by its Executive President, and including
its General Manager and four members appointed by the President of Guatemala).
Project accounts adequate to generate timely and reliable financial
information would be maintained throughout the project and financial audit
reports, prepared by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, would be
submitted to the Bank at the end of each year to verify the maintenance of
such financial records in accordance with Bank standards. In addition, the
same auditor would prepare quarterly audit reports of a sample of subprojects
in execution and completed, covering both their processing and implementation.
FIS would prepare semiannual progress reports, including the updated list of
agreed performance indicators, and provide copies to the Bank to be discussed
during project supervision and implementation reviews. The indicators were
- 3 -



agreed as part of the PIP. Annual project implementation reviews would assess
the quantity and quality of FIS' operations, as well as the work program for
the following calendar year and its recurrent and capital budget implications.
Annual expost evaluations of completed subprojects and beneficiary assessments
would be carried out as part of the annual implementation review.
6. Project Sustainability
Sustainability of subprojects would be ensured through: (a) cooperation with
line ministries and agreement on their responsibility for operation of some
completed subprojects (as described in agreements between FIS and those
agencies); (b) comprehensive program of beneficiary community training in
social management and operation and maintenance of all infrastructure
subprojects, including establishment of user groups/committees and provision
of toolkits for water supply, sanitation, and access road subprojects; and
(c)screening of intermediary organizations for the community bank program, to
ensure adequate institutional capacity to manage these activities.
7. Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The project design reflects SIF experience in Latin America discussed in
recent World Bank and IDB reports, as well as the findings of the FIS annual
review mission of May 1997. The World Bank report stresses the need for SIFs:
(i) to focus on well-defined subprojects; (ii) to be an integral part of the
Government's economic and social policy; (iii) to be operationally efficient;
(iv) to obtain feedback through proper monitoring and evaluation; (v) to be
transparent and accountable; (vi) to ensure proper targeting; and (vii) to aim
at subproject sustainability. The IDB report found that SIFs: (i) are
efficient, transparent, and relatively free from political interference; (ii)
have helped to improve the living conditions of the poor through the provision
of social and economic infrastructure. The SIFs should not replace the public
sector; they should reinforce rather than supplant state institutions in the
social sectors. In general, SIFs should (I) allocate more resources to
training and community development; (ii) integrate environmental concerns in
their operations; and (iii) give greater emphasis to the involvement of women
as beneficiaries. SIFs have the potential to play a catalytic role in reaching
poor communities with no access to credit when they have a comparative
advantage in the selection and control of credit intermediaries.
8. Poverty Category. Poverty Reduction.
9. Environmental Aspects
The project would have no significant environmental risks. Standard safety and
environmental assessment procedures have been developed and were reviewed
during preparation. An improved environmental assessment mechanism is being
established. Training in the new procedures will be financed by the project.
10. Program Objective Categories. The primary categories are: physical and
institutional building.
Contact Point:           Ing. Alvaro Hugo Roda
Executive President
The World Bank
Fondo de Inversion Social (FIS)
- 4 -



Edificio los Arcos
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Tel. (502) 331-4155
Fax: (502) 332-3394
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



