Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4407-GU
Loan Agreement
(Second Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 22, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4407-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by SIF with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan 
provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to SIF, as set forth 
in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SIF (the 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  2
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Cooperation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(b)
"Decree No. 13-93" means the Borrower’s Decreto No. 13-93 dated March 25, 
1993 published in the official gazette of May 17, 1993 which established SIF;
(c)
"Executing Entity" means either an individual, an Intermediate 
Beneficiary, a non-government organization (permitted to operate in the Borrower’s 
territory) or a legal entity (other than a non-government organization) with the 
technical capacity to carry out the works or provide the technical assistance or 
training under a Subproject, as the case may be: 
(d)
"Executive Accord No. 1-94" means the Borrower’s Acuerdo Gubernativo No. 
1-94 dated January 3, 1994 published in the official gazette of January 5, 1994 which 
regulates Decree No. 13-93; 
(e)
"Final Beneficiary" means the poor people living in rural areas within 
the Borrower’s territory who benefit from a Subproject; 
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from SIF 
to the Bank setting forth: (i) the monitoring and evaluation indicators; and (ii) the 
matters to be discussed in each of the reviews referred to in Section 2.07 (c) of the 
Project Agreement; 
(g)
"Intermediate Beneficiary" means a legal entity (including 
municipalities) which meets the requirements of Decree No. 13-93 and the criteria set 
forth in the Operations Manual; 
(h)
"Ministry" means any of the Borrower’s Ministries;  
(i)
"Operations Manual" means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement;  
(j)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and SIF of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(k)
"SIF" means the Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión Social) 
established pursuant to Decree No. 13-93; 
(l)
"Social Investment Fund Project" means the Borrower’s project financed in 
part with the proceeds of the loan provided pursuant to the loan agreement (Social 
Investment Fund Project) between the Borrower and the Bank dated September 29, 1993 as 
amended;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(n)
"Subproject" means any of the activities referred to in Part A of the 
Project;  
(o)
"Subproject Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;  and
(p)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SIF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SIF. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifty 
million Dollars ($50,000,000). 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required under Subproject Agreements and for goods and 
services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  4
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Executive President of SIF (or any person or persons whom such 
Executive President shall appoint in writing) is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause SIF to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SIF therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SIF to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall transfer, on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan 
to SIF under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SIF, 
under terms and conditions, which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) above and for 
purposes of coordinating with SIF the carrying out of Part A of the Project, the 
Borrower, through each Ministry which has jurisdiction over the type of investments to 
be financed under one or more Subprojects, shall, not later than ninety days after the 
Effective Date, enter with SIF into agreements (the Cooperation Agreements) under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for purposes of ensuring, inter alia, 
that: (i) such Subprojects are consistent with the investment plan of the respective 
Ministry; (ii) such Subprojects are not a duplication of another investment carried 
out by such Ministry; and (iii) funds are available in the respective Ministry to 
finance recurrent costs caused by Subprojects when such costs are not financed by the 
Intermediate Beneficiaries.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and 
each Cooperation Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or 
fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any Cooperation Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by SIF pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the annual reviews referred to 
in Section 2.07 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not later than January 31, 1999 present to its 
Congress, for its approval, a bill of law to amend Article 1 of Decree 13-93 in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank in order to enable SIF to continue the carrying out of 
the Project beyond May 31, 2001.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
have the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
SIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that SIF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
Decree No. 13-93 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of SIF to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; 
(d)
Executive Accord No. 1-94 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as 
to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of SIF to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
(e)
the Borrower shall have failed to amend Article 1 of Decree No. 13-93, in 
a manner satisfactory to the Bank, in order to enable SIF to continue the carrying out 
of the Project beyond May 31, 2001 by November 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank may agree; provided however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate 
arrangements have been made to enable the Borrower to continue the carrying out of the 
Project beyond May 31, 2001. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
SIF; and 
(b)
the Operations Manual has been approved by the Bank.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SIF, and is 
Page  6
legally binding upon SIF in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and SIF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SIF in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date April 22, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
MINFIP
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Pedro Miguel Lamport
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  7
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works, goods and
   46,509,901
up to 84% of the total
services under 
cost of each Subproject
Subproject Agreements
(2)
Goods under Part C of   600,000
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures and
75% of local
expenditures
(3)
Training for          1,500,000           100%
 Intermediate
Beneficiaries 
and Ministries 
under Part B 
of the Project
(4)
Training and tech-
900,000
100%
nical assistance 
under Part C
of the Project
(5)
Fee                     490,099
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
        TOTAL    50,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures incurred by SIF in connection with 
the carrying out of the training activities under Parts B and C of the Project, 
including the travel cost and per diem of the trainers and trainees, rental of 
facilities, training materials and the trainers’ fees. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an amount not exceeding $5,000,000, may be made in respect 
of Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 5, 1998. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods with the 
exception of: (i) the first two contracts for goods estimated to cost more than 
$100,000 equivalent each to be procured in each calendar year of Project 
implementation; and (ii) contracts for the acquisition of computer equipment and 
vehicles estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for works 
with the exception of: (i) the first two contracts for works estimated to cost more 
than $500,000 equivalent each to be procured in each calendar year of Project 
implementation; and (ii) the first two contracts for works to be procured in each 
calendar year in accordance with the provisions of Parts B.3 and B.4 of Section I of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent each with the exception of those consulting 
firms which have been selected in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Section 
II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (d) contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; and (e) Training 
(other than the trainers’ fees which may fall under subparagraphs (c) or (d) herein) 
as set forth in Categories (3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  8
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to continue supporting the Borrower’s 
poverty alleviation efforts by targeting Subprojects to the poorest areas and 
population groups in Guatemala; and (b) to strengthen the capacity of Intermediate 
Beneficiaries to design, implement and maintain Subprojects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
Financing and carrying out of community-based demand-driven Subprojects, 
including feasibility studies therefore, in the following areas: (i) social or 
economic infrastructure investments; (ii) the provision of technical assistance and 
training in the area of social services; and (iii) any other investments for 
productive purposes, all of which meet the criteria set forth in the Operations 
Manual.
Part B:
Community Training 
Provision of training to Intermediate Beneficiaries and to those Ministries 
involved in the Project and in the Social Investment Fund Project, in participatory 
planning, identification of investment priorities, raising awareness of environmental 
protection measures for Subprojects, operating and maintaining Subprojects and 
increasing women’s participation in the design and implementation of Subprojects. 
Part C:
Institutional Development
1.
Provision of training to SIF’s staff to promote: (a) the participation of 
Intermediate Beneficiaries in the design, implementation and maintenance of 
Subprojects; (b) the awareness of environmental protection measures for Subprojects 
amongst Intermediate Beneficiaries and Final Beneficiaries; and (c) the participation 
of women as Intermediate Beneficiaries in the design and implementation of 
Subprojects. 
2.
Supporting the institutional capacity building and administrative 
decentralization of SIF through the strengthening of SIF’s field offices and the 
improvement of its management information system, including the acquisition and 
utilization of goods required therefor.
3.
Carrying out of: (a) annual ex-post evaluations of a sample of Subprojects which 
include an assessment of the Intermediate Beneficiaries and Final Beneficiaries of 
such Subprojects; and (b) annual procurement audits of Subprojects.  
4.
Carrying out of an evaluation of the impact of the Project.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule 
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
(Expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2004
1,065,000
August 15, 2004
1,095,000
February 15, 2005
1,130,000
August 15, 2005
1,160,000
February 15, 2006
1,195,000
August 15, 2006
1,230,000
February 15, 2007
1,265,000
August 15, 2007
1,300,000
February 15, 2008
1,340,000
Page  9
August 15, 2008
1,380,000
February 15, 2009
1,420,000
August 15, 2009
1,460,000
February 15, 2010
1,505,000
August 15, 2010
1,550,000
February 15, 2011
1,595,000
August 15, 2011
1,640,000
February 15, 2012
1,685,000
August 15, 2012
1,735,000
February 15, 2013
1,785,000
August 15, 2013
1,840,000
February 15, 2014
1,895,000
August 15, 2014
1,950,000
February 15, 2015
2,005,000
August 15, 2015
2,065,000
February 15, 2016
2,125,000
August 15, 2016
2,185,000
February 15, 2017
2,250,000
August 15, 2017
2,315,000
February 15, 2018
2,385,000
August 15, 2018
2,450,000
___________________________
*
The figures in this column present the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $3,300,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for the Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
Page  10
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures, as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
