Page  1
October 28, 1996
Lic. José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Minister of Finance
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona 1,
Guatemala, Guatemala
   Re:  Japanese Grant for Second Social Investment Fund
Trust Fund  No.029592
Dear Mr. Minister:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding $283,750 (two hundred eighty three thousand seven hundred fifty 
Dollars) (the Grant) to the Republic of Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By: /s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Authorized Representative
Date: November 28, 1996
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
Page  2
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a) Carrying out of the following studies: (i)  a study of the: (A) investment needs of the 
Recipient’s social sectors; and (B) the policies of the Recipient in addressing the needs referred 
to in (A) herein; (ii) a study of the role of, and cooperation between, the Recipient’s social 
investment funds in addressing the needs referred to in (i)(A) herein; (iii) a study of  
FONAPAZ’s institutional structure and management and operating capacity, including its 
funding requirements; (iv) a study of poverty targeting and of the prioritization of the projects 
financed by the Recipient’s social investment funds ; (v) a study of the projects financed by the 
Recipient’s social investment funds; (vi) a study of the Recipient’s social investment funds 
cooperation with the Line Ministries and Municipalities; (vii) a study of the needs of indigenous 
population, women and children; and (viii) a study of the economic and social impact of the 
projects financed by SIF and FONAPAZ. 
(b) For purposes of this paragraph: (i) the term “FONAPAZ” means the Recipient’s National 
Fund for the Peace (Fondo
Nacional
para
la
Paz
)
;
(ii) the term “Line Ministries” means the 
Recipient’s ministries which are involved in the social sectors; (iii) the term “Municipality” 
means a political subdivision of the Recipient or a legal entity owned and controlled by such 
political subdivision; and (iv) the term “SIF” means the Recipient’s Social Investment Fund (
Fondo
de
Inversión
Social
).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance: (a) consultants’ services required for  the Activities; and (b) 
the provision of training to the Recipient’s personnel and/or the Recipient’s social investment 
funds as a result of the carrying out of the Activities. No withdrawals shall be made for 
expenditures prior to the date of the signing of this Letter Agreement by the Bank, except that 
withdrawals, in aggregate amount not to exceed $28,000, may be made in respect of consultants’ 
services on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 1,1996.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate 
with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank 
against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31,1997.  After that date, the 
Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants and trainers (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall 
be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after 
consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for 
the Activities if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has 
failed to perform any of its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the 
Recipient , or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the  
Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the  Bank  or any development 
Page  3
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that 
is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
