Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4407-GU
Project Agreement
(Second Social Investment Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL
Dated January 22, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4407-GU 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 22, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL (SIF). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Guatemala (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SIF agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
SIF, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to SIF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; 
and WHEREAS SIF, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SIF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, public health, education, sanitation and 
Page  2
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
SIF shall carry out the Project in accordance with an operations manual 
satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, inter alia: (i) the criteria and 
procedures for approving Subprojects; and (ii) the guidelines and procedures to be 
followed by SIF in carrying out the environmental evaluations of Subprojects.
(c)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and for the purpose of financing Subprojects, SIF shall, upon approval of a 
Subproject, enter into an agreement (the Subproject Agreement) with the corresponding 
Executing Entity and Intermediate Beneficiary of such Subproject (unless such 
Intermediate Beneficiary is also an Executing Entity of such Subproject in which case 
SIF shall enter into such agreement solely with the Intermediate Beneficiary), under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
(d)
SIF shall perform all its obligations under the Subproject Agreements and 
shall exercise its rights thereunder in such manner as to protect the interests of 
SIF, the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) SIF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SIF shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Bank and SIF, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
SIF on said plan.
Section 2.04. SIF shall: 
(a)
duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.  Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SIF shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, waiving or terminating the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof; and 
(b)
duly perform all its obligations under each Cooperation Agreement. Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SIF shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning, waiving, terminating or 
failing to enforce any Cooperation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) SIF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Subproject Agreements, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. (b)
SIF shall promptly inform the 
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by SIF 
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement and the Subproject 
Agreements.
Section 2.06. SIF shall: (a) not later than August 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comments, a draft annual Project operating plan with respect to the Project activities 
to be carried out by SIF during the calendar year following the date of presentation 
of each such plan as referred to in paragraph (b) herein; and (b) not later than the 
date on which the corresponding annual review will be held as referred to in Section 
2.07 (c) of this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the Bank a final annual Project 
operating plan, which shall incorporate the Bank’s comments thereon, if any.
Page  3
Section 2.07.  SIF shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the monitoring and evaluation 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than forty-five days after the conclusion of each calendar 
semester during Project implementation, starting in the first calendar semester of 
1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, not later than September 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999: (i) the corresponding reports referred to in 
paragraph (b) herein and in Section 4.02 of  this Agreement; (ii) the matters set 
forth in the Implementation Letter; and (iii) the corresponding annual plan referred 
to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports, plans, 
audits and evaluations and the Bank’s views on the matters referred to herein.
Section 2.08. In the event that the environmental evaluation of a particular 
Subproject recommends actions to be taken by SIF, the Executing Entity and/or the 
Intermediate Beneficiary to address any negative environmental impact, SIF shall take, 
or cause the Executing Entity and/or Intermediate Beneficiary to take, all such 
actions as required by the Operations Manual. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of SIF
Section 3.01. SIF shall: (a) carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public health, 
education, sanitation and environmental practices under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and (b) 
inform the Bank of any substitution of managerial staff of SIF promptly thereafter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) SIF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
SIF shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and a report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
Page  4
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, SIF shall:  
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) above of this Section and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. SIF shall: (a) not later than January 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999 employ consultants acceptable to the Bank for the 
purpose of carrying out an annual ex-post evaluation and procurement audit of 
Subprojects for the previous year as referred to in Part C.3 of the Project; (b) not 
later than August 30 of each year of Project implementation, starting in 1999, prepare 
(under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank) and furnish to the Bank, a report 
integrating the results of each such evaluation and audit. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SIF 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SIF thereof. 
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Page  5
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For SIF:
Fondo de Inversión Social
2a. Avenida  20-13
Zona 10, Edificio Los Arcos
                     Guatemala, 01010
Guatemala, C.A.
 Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SIF, may be 
taken or executed by SIF’s Executive President or such other person or persons as such 
Executive President shall appoint in writing, and SIF shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO DE INVERSION SOCIAL
By /s/ Ewald Scheel Aguilar
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods (other than those goods to be procured under Subprojects) estimated 
to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods and works under Subprojects estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent 
or more per contract, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  6
(c)
Procurement of goods and works under this Part shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
  Shopping
(a)
Goods (other than computer equipment and vehicles and those goods to be 
procured under Subprojects) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Computer equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c)
Goods under Subprojects estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works under Subprojects estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per 
contract (except as provided in Part B.4 of this Section), up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $20,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Works under Subprojects located in remote rural areas in which the procurement 
procedures described in paragraph 3 of this Part are not practicable and which are 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
of $19,000,000 equivalent, may be procured through direct contracting of contractors 
available in the area.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for Parts B and C of the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods under such Parts of the Project shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods to be procured 
each calendar year of Project implementation estimated to cost more than $100,000 
equivalent; (ii) all contracts for the acquisition of computer equipment and vehicles 
estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) the first two contracts for 
works to be procured each calendar year of Project implementation estimated to cost 
more than $500,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for works to be procured each 
calendar year of Project implementation under Parts B.3 and B.4 of this Section, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any contractor, SIF shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
Page  7
(ii)
prior to the execution of such contracts, SIF shall provide to the 
Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
  Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
Individual Consultants
Services for Parts A and C.2 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms: (i) 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (ii) selected under Part B of 
this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Agreements
Page  8
Each Subproject Agreement shall contain terms and conditions whereby:
1.
SIF agrees:
(a)
without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, 
to finance up to 95% of the total cost of each Subproject of which: (i) up to 11% 
shall be financed with its own resources; and (ii) up to 84% shall be financed with 
the proceeds of the Loan;
(b)
to procure the works, goods or services to be financed under the 
corresponding Subproject in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(c)
to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the goods and works included in the respective Subproject, and 
any relevant records and documents; 
(d)
to take or cause to be taken all actions as provided in Section 2.08 of 
this Agreement; and
(e)
to suspend or terminate the right of the Intermediate Beneficiary to 
benefit from the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by the Executing Entity or the 
Intermediate Beneficiary to comply with any of its obligations under the corresponding 
Subproject Agreement.
2.
In case the Intermediate Beneficiary is also an Executing Entity, the 
Intermediate Beneficiary agrees:
(a)
(i) to carry out and operate the respective Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, technical, engineering, 
financial and environmental standards and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operations Manual; and (ii) to provide the necessary information to SIF to enable SIF 
to comply with its obligations under Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(b)
to finance at least 5% of the total cost of the corresponding Subproject, 
such financing to be made either: (i) in cash; (ii) in kind; (iii) through the 
provision of labor; or (iv) by means of any combination thereof;
(c)
to take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when 
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying 
out the Subproject and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon its request, evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are available 
for purposes related to the Subproject; 
(d)
to use exclusively the works and goods financed with the proceeds of the 
Loan for the carrying out of the respective Subproject; 
(e) 
to obtain when needed, all permits, licenses and or rights (other than 
those referred to in subparagraph (c) above) necessary to carry out the Subproject; 
(f)
to take all actions on its part required to address any potential 
negative environmental impact identified in the environmental evaluation for the 
corresponding Subproject in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(g)
not to: (i) sell, lease, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of any 
property or assets financed wholly or in part with the proceeds of the Loan; or (ii) 
assign or transfer, in whole or in part any of its obligations under the Subproject 
Agreement.
3.
In case the Executing Entity is not the Intermediate Beneficiary, the 
obligations set forth in paragraph 2 (a) and (d) through (g) above, shall apply to 
such Executing Entity. 
