PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                             A Worlds Vre. of l',vjrty
Ul ,
InlfoShop
Report No AB1
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name             CONGO, REPUBLIC OF-Emergency Recovery and CommunL1ty Support
Project
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (40%); General education
sector (30%); Health (30%)
Project ID               P081924
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)
Implementing Agency      to be determined
Add ress                 Address
Contact Person to be determined
Tel     Fax       Email
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        March 28, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 10, 2003
Bank Approval Date       June 26, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
1. Circumstances of the emergency
The Republic of Congo is gradually emerging from a decade of institutional instability,
ethnic strife and civil war. In 1993-94, in 1997, and again in 1998-99, the country was torn by
violent conflicts, between forces loyal to various political leaders. Since 2000, however, with the
signing of ceasefire agreements between the Government and key rebel leaders, the security
situation has improved dramatically in Brazzaville and throughout the country (although there
continue to be sporadic explosions of violence in a limited part of the Pool Region).
Reconciliation efforts culminated on April 14, 2001 with the adoption of a new constitution, and
on March 10, 2002 with the peaceful holding of presidential elections. With the return to
normalcy, Congolese authorities are progressively shifting their focus toward reconstruction and
rehabilitation.
The recovery process will need, however, to be accompanied by a deep shift in economic
policies. Since independence in 1960, the successive Governments have not been able to
translate the country's rich economic potential into an actual improvement of living conditions
for the largest part of the population.  Despite abundant oil resources, poor economic



2
PID
management under a centrally-planned economy, compounded by severe transparency issues,
have indeed resulted in a fall of GDP per capita (from $1,300 in 1982 to $630 in 2000) and in a
worsening of social and poverty indicators.
To ensure a sustainable recovery, the Government will need to tackle some of the issues
that were at the root of the successive civil wars. While the causes of each conflict are complex
and multi-fold, there is a consensus among most observers that the history of repeated violence in
the 1990s is closely linked to the impoverishment of the Congolese people, to the unequal
distribution of the wealth generated in the country, and to the over-centralization of a very
diverse country. To be sustainable, recovery programs must tackle these three issues.
2. Impact of the conflict
Whereas the wars of 1993-94 and 1997 were essentially limited to Brazzaville, the war of
1998-99 brought large-scale destruction to southern Congo (except the area around Pointe-Noire)
and parts of Central Congo, with dramatic social and humanitarian cost, widespread economic
disruption, and weakened institutional and human capacities.
Institutional and Capacity Impact Congo's institutional capacity has been severely
weakened by the years of conflict - through the loss of qualified staff, the destruction of records,
the looting of IT, vehicles, and other equipment, and the destructions of facilities in 8 of the
country's 11 regions. The reconstruction of institutional capacity, in particular at local level, is
critical for effective and sustained economic recovery.
3. Response of the international community
1.    The international community has gradually re-engaged over the last years, shifting from a
humanitarian approach in the immediate aftermath of the conflict to development-oriented
programs. Key donors include the European Commission (EC), France, and the United States -
who are involved in a variety of infrastructure rehabilitation, community development, and
capacity building programs.  In parallel, UN agencies, in particular the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), launched specific programs to support local communities and
strengthen institutions. Still, the country has not received yet a level of support commensurate to
its needs or comparable to other post-conflict countries. A Donor Information meeting is
expected to be held in July 2003 to review Government's progress towards economic reform
over the last period and discuss ways by which the international community could more robustly
support the stabilization and recovery process.
If progress towards political stability and economic recovery is unsatisfactory, IDA, in
close consultation with other donors and civil society, will review its activities and consider
restructuring, scaling back, or suspending its program
2. Objectives



3
PID
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
1.    The Bank has re-engaged in Congo with a Transition Support Strategy (TSS), which was
discussed by the Board on January 16, 2001 and aims at supporting the Government's Interim
Post Conflict program in areas where the Bank has a clear comparative advantage. In particular,
the Bank approved: (i) a $38 million Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (in July 2001)
to support implementation of key structural reforms, help to better manage fiscal resources, and
assist in improving governance and transparency in the oil sector; (ii) a $5 million Emergency
Demobilization and Reintegration Project (in July 2001) to facilitate the reintegration of about
10,000 ex-combatants into civil life; (iii) a $7 million Transparency and Governance Capacity
Building Project (in February 2002) to accompany reforms supported under the Post Conflict
Economic Recovery Credit; and (iv) a $40 million Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Improvement
of Living Conditions Project (in April 2002) to rehabilitate key infrastructure (including portions
of the key railroad link, roads, and health facilities) and help mitigate unemployment issues
through a variety of labor-intensive micro-projects.  An HIV/AIDS Project is also under
preparation to help contain the rapidly spreading epidemics.
2.    For the full benefits of the recovery effort supported by these projects to materialize,
however, the success of the decentralization effort and the distribution of the benefits of recovery
to all communities throughout the country are critical. There is a widespread consensus that
failure in doing so would result both in continued tensions between Brazzaville and the outer
areas, which could in turn cause renewed civil unrest and violence, and in a further deterioration
of living conditions due to the unsatisfactory management of key social sectors.
3.    The Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project is a response to calls by the
Government, a variety of Congolese stakeholders, and the international community for the Bank
to provide early support to the decentralization and community recovery process. The proposed
Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project is fully consistent with the objectives of
the TSS and is expected to include substantial investments in the education, health, and clean
water sector. It is not a stand alone operation but an element of a broader support strategy and is
aimed at complementing efforts already underway to help the Government rehabilitate vital
infrastructure, improve economic management (in particular public resource management), and
improve living conditions (in particular through the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Improvement of Living Conditions Project which is focused on Brazzaville and the link to Pointe
Noire). In view of the situation, which calls for a rapid intervention by the Bank, the Emergency
Recovery and Community Support Project will be processed under OP8.50 on emergency
recovery assistance.
4. Description
1.    The objective of the Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project is to support
recovery of communities living in smaller municipalities and rural areas (i.e. all areas out of the
two cities of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire).
2.    To that effect, and in line with the objectives outlined in the TSS, the Project will finance
activities in all "departements" and smaller municipalities - to finance priority, small-scale
rehabilitation and reconstruction works, to strengthen capacities in newly-formed local
collectivities, for these entities to effectively effective manage internal resources transferred



4
PID
within the context of the decentralization process, and to support activities initiated by local
NGOs and community-based organizations.  In addition, the Project will provide targeted
capacity-building support to help implement economic reforms which are critical for the
revitalization of the local economy.
Components
Component A: Financing of priority local investments.
3.    Activities under this Component are aimed at facilitating the establishment of an adequate
mechanism for selecting local investment priorities, while responding to urgent needs in areas
which have received little external support over the last years.
4.    Activities will be selected through participatory processes which should involve all
relevant stakeholders in a participatory manner, under the overall authority of the newly-elected
local assemblies. The development of such participatory process, which will be facilitated by the
implementation agency, is expected to contribute over the medium-term to improving local
governance. Activities financed under this Component could include rehabilitation works,
improvements in the delivery of social services, or employment generation initiatives. A set of
eligibility criteria will be defined during appraisal, which are expected to include: be in an area
placed under the responsibility of the local collectivities; include no investment in areas where
the private sector has a clear comparative advantage; meet a series of objective criteria (such as
cost effectiveness, etc); help generate local revenues; be implementable through methods which
maximize the labor content, while ensuring proper quality; and be limited in size (with a
common ceiling for all such activities).
5.    Each local collectivity ("departement" and smaller municipality) will be allocated at the
beginning of each year of project implementation a maximum amount to be committed during
this year. The first year allocations will be based on population and poverty criteria. Subsequent
allocations will also reflect implementation performance.
Component B Support to economic management by local collectivities
6.    Activities under this Component are aimed at improving economic management in the
newly-created "departements" and smaller municipalities. These entities currently have very
limited economic management capacity - whether for the selection of investment priorities, or
for the preparation and execution of a proper budget - while they have been entrusted with
significant responsibilities in the social and infrastructure sectors.  In addition, they are
chronically under-funded partly due to inefficiencies in the revenue collection systems.
Improving the management of public resources and increasing fiscal revenues is therefore
critical.
7.    The Component will provide capacity-building support to all "departements" and smaller
municipalities (in the form of technical assistance, training, and equipment) as well as to the
local branches of the central revenue collection agencies. In the first phase of implementation,



5
PID
the Component will finance individualized assessment of capacity building needs in all local
collectivities. Activities for further financing will be identified on the basis of these assessments,
so that they be tailored to each collectivity's specific situation - as well as on the overall
recommendations of the Public Expenditure Review currently underway. Such activities will
aim to: (i) gradually improve the preparation, execution, and monitoring of local budgets; and (ii)
identify untapped sources of local revenues, and help de-bottleneck collection efforts. The
Component will also be used to finance regular audits of budget execution (which will be
communicated to local NGOs and published in the local press)
8.    The Component will also finance capacity building activities at the Government level to
help establish transparent and effective mechanisms for fiscal transfers to "departements" and
smaller municipalities. Funds will also be available to finance regular audits to help adjust
processes and procedures in that respect.
9.    In addition, the Component will provide balance of payment support to the Government
to help finance critical imports and free up fiscal resources which can be transferred to local
collectivities - for these entities to be in a position to effectively deliver basic social services
This support will be disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche (which is expected to be the
largest) will be disbursed upon effectiveness of the Project. The two following tranches will be
disbursed on the basis of audits of budget execution in local collectivities, with a view to
encouraging a gradual improvement in local public expenditure management.
Component C Suppor t to community organizations
10.   This Component aims to strengthen social capital in "departements" and smaller
municipalities as a key element of a successful decentralization and empowerment process. A
fund will be established to finance activities initiated by local NGOs and associations which meet
a number of pre-set criteria. Funding will be limited to $20,000 per activity, and the recipient
organization will be required to make a counterpart contribution The level of such contributions
(which could include in-kind contributions) will be set on the basis of an assessment of local
organizations' capacities and in view of practices under similar projects currently unlderway in
other parts of the country. The Component will also finance complementary activities, aimed at
developing a sufficient project management capacity in community organizations and local
NGOs. Local NGOs or associations may also be asked to work in tandem with reputable
international NGOs, depending on their records.
Component D Capacity building at Government level for economic reform
11.   This component will aim to provide the central Government with both technical
assistance and institutional support in order to spur the community recovery and decentralization
process, with a particular focus on the areas of: (i) decentralization; (ii) public service reform;
(iii) implementation of key reforms under the economic program supported by the Bretton
Woods Institutions; (iv) transparency; and (v) preparation of the PRSP. The component will be
designed in such a way that a degree of flexibility is maintained to respond effectively to
evolving needs during the 2003-2007 period. Similar capacity building activities in other



6
PID
countries have proved very instrumental in facilitating the design and implementation of critical
economic reforms.
12.   In parallel, and in view of the importance of the forestry sector for the economy at the
national and local level, this component will support fine tuning and implementation of the initial
steps of a forest reform program the Government has already initiated - which is aimed at
reforming forest institutions (which should focus on policy and monitoring functions while
relinquishing production and other activities that are better performed by the private sector),
improving governance (in particular in terms of law enforcement and local participation), and
increasing revenue collection in the sector.
13.   Finally, to help revive economic activity in relatively isolated areas, the Project will
provide capacity-building support to implement the telecommunications and postal services
reforms which are underway (and were developed with the support of the World Bank). This
reforms aim in particular to strengthen the legal and institutional framework (for
telecommunications, postal services, and information technology), as well as to restructure the
Societe Telecommunications du Congo (Sotelco) and the Societe des Postes du Congo (Sopeco),
so as to improve service and increase private participation.
Table: Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project Costs
IDA      Percent of
($ million)   total
A Financing of priority local investments        8 0         33
B     Support to economic managemnent by local       8 0         33
collect vities
- Strengthenin7g of local capacities          (2 0)
- Balan?ce ofpayinent support                 (6 0)
C Support to community organizations              1.5         6
D. Capacity building at Governnient levelfor econonuc  6 0    25
reform
- Capacity for macro-economic management       (2 5)
- Forestry sector reformns                    (1 5)
- Imiiplementation of teleconuiunications reforms  (2 0)
Contingencies                                     0 5         3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               24       100.0
5. Financing
Total (USSm)
BORROWER                 $0.00
IBRD
IDA                      $24.00
Total Project Cost       $24 00



7
PID
6. Implementation
1.    The Project is expected to be implemented over a four-year period, until mid 2007.
Implementation arrangements will be designed with a particular attention to reflect lessons
learned from experience to date, both in post-conflict countries and in the specific case of Congo
- which call for simplicity and optimal use of existing non-Government capacity. In addition,
particular attention will be given to issues of effectiveness and transparency.
2.    Component A will be implemented by an international NGO, with extensive experience
in both facilitating participatory decision-making processes and managing similar activities in
other parts of the country.  Components B and D will be implemented by a Project
Implementation Unit to be set within the Ministry of Finance, with a view to maximizing the use
of capacities already developed for the implementation of the Transparency and Governance
Capacity Building Project. Component C will be implemented by an international organization
with extensive experience in working with community-based organizations, helping them
develop their capacities, and implementing small-scale activities.
7. Sustainability
1.    It is expected that the key institutional outcomes of the Project (improved budget and
investment selection processes) will contribute to the sustainability of donor- and
Government-funded activities in both "departements" and smaller municipalities. It is also
expected that this will facilitate the sustainable provision and effective use of Government
resources to decentralized entities as the decentralization process moves forward.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
1.    The design of the Project reflects a series of lessons learned in Congo-Brazzaville and
other post-conflict countries, including:
*     The need to keep design and implementation arrangements simple. Administrative
capacity in Congo has been compromised by years of conflict - in particular in local entities -
and best use needs to be made of existing non-governmental capacities. The design of the
Project's components and proposed implementation arrangements reflect this need for
pragmatism and simplicity.
*     The importance of decentralization and empowerment for the stabilization of social
situations in fragile post-conflict situations. While infrastructure rehabilitation is critical for
improving living conditions in the short-term, improving local governance, strengthening social
capital, and fostering participatory processes for the making of critical investment decisions have
often proven essential for the return of peace and normalcy. The Project puts an emphasis on
such activities, with a view to going beyond the restoration of infrastructure and helping to
improve local governance. A similar approach has proven very successful in East Timor.
*     The need to maintain flexibility to be in a position to rapidly adjust to a changing
environment throughout the years of implementation. The design of the Project aims to leave
sufficient room in some of the key components to be able to respond effectively to emerging
needs, in particular with regard to capacity building activities. A similar approach has proven
very successful in neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo.



8
PID
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project is classified as
environmental category B because no activities are expected to have negative environmental
impacts. No new construction is envisaged. Rather, the project will support the rehabilitation
and reconstruction of deteriorated infrastructure. It should be noted that the emergency was in no
way related to inappropriate environmental management practices. The Emergency Recovery
and Community Support Project involves no issues of resettlement or indigenous people.
The Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project is an emergency recovery
operation, processed under OP 8.50. A full environmental assessment for the component
including major infrastructure repairs will be completed within a year of project effectiveness
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Xavier Devictor
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone (202) 458-7237
Fax: (202) 473-8300
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending 03/28/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
%EARCH       SFEE DACK      .ITE MAP  '_  ,   HflAE A7 A



