Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3798 COB 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H053 COB 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 26, 2003
Page  2
CONFORMED
 
CREDIT NUMBER  3798 COB 
 
GRANT NUMBER  H053 COB 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated  June 26, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
“Beneficiary Community” means a CBO (as hereinafter defined), special 
interest group, or group of individuals of a particular community in small municipalities or 
rural communities in the Borrower’s territory to whom a Community Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) is made, or proposed to be made, under Part B of the Project; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“Community Based Organization” or “CBO” means an NGO or a group of 
individuals of a particular community in the Borrower’s territory which is responsible for the 
development of a Community Subproject (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of 
community public works for, 
inter alia
,
community infrastructure, construction of market 
and storage facilities and education, health and nutrition-related programs, and which is the 
recipient of a Community Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the financing of such 
Community Subproject; 
(c) 
“Community Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the SPB (as hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary Community for the purpose of 
carrying out a Community Subproject under Part B of the Project; 
(d) 
“Community Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the 
SPB (as hereinafter defined) to a Beneficiary Community through a Community Grant 
Agreement for the financing of a Community Subproject (as hereinafter defined)
 
under Part 
B
of
the Project
,
utilizing proceeds of the Credit made available by the Borrower to the SPB 
for the benefit of eligible communities; 
(e) 
“Community Subproject” means a specific subproject for: (i) construction or 
rehabilitation of community assets such as small public infrastructure, community markets, 
storage facilities, agro-processing facilities; and (ii) delivery of basic social services in, 
inter 
alia
,
health, nutrition, and education; 
(f) 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means the 
framework for mitigating adverse environmental consequences arising from the 
implementation of Project activities, as further referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
(g) “FCFA” 
means 
Francs de la Coopération Financière en Afrique,
 the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing January 1 
and ending December 31 in the same year; 
(j) 
“MoEFB” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Economy, Finance 
and Budget; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(k) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower; 
(l) 
“PCIU” means the Project Coordination and Implementation Unit 
established within MoEFB; 
(m) 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual (
Manuel de Procédure du 
Projet
)
referred to in Schedule 4 of this Agreement setting forth, 
inter alia, 
the 
administrative, financial and accounting procedures, the procurement and disbursement 
procedures and arrangements to be used for the implementation of the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the Association’s prior written consent, and such 
term to include any schedules, tables and annexes to the PIM; 
(n) 
“SPA” means the Service Provider selected by the Borrower to assist the 
Borrower in the carrying out of Part A of the Project as further referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(o) 
“SPB” means the Service Provider selected by the Borrower to assist the 
Borrower in the carrying out of Part B of the Project as further referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement; and 
(p) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of Part 
B
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million three hundred 
thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,300,000) (the Credit); and 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,500,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in each 
case in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
Page  6
-
5
-
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (i) the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the SPB 
on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of Beneficiary Communities under 
Community Grant Agreements, to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services repaired 
for Community Subprojects, to be financed under Part B of the Project, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
(b)
 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007
 
or
such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the principal amount of 
the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 
of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant Account (as the case may 
be), canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from 
the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2013,  and ending January 15, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2023 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower
’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed 
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and community management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out Part A and Part B of the Project the 
Borrower shall: (a) conclude appropriate contracts respectively with SPA and SPB under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association; (b) ensure that 
each SPA and SPB has qualifications and experience that shall be at all times satisfactory to 
the Association; and (c) take all measures required on its part to enable the SPA and SPB to 
implement the contracts referred to under paragraph (a) above with  due diligence in 
accordance with the modalities set forth in the PIM. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after
 the
 Closing Date or such later date as 
Page  9
-
8
-
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan to ensure 
the continuous objective of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Financing 
Accounts were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  10
-
9
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Financing Accounts was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish 
to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; 
and
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
Page  11
-
10 - 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; and 
(b) 
the Borrower has recruited: (i) the SPA and SPB referred to in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement; (ii) a procurement specialist; and (iii) a financial management specialist; 
all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
B.P. 2083 
Brazzaville 
Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
242
814145  
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
District of Columbia, United States of America,  as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By /s/ Rigobert Roger Andely 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  14
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of the Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 
Amount of the              Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated             Grant allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
    (Expressed in             Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Eligible imports 
9,500,000 
 
100% of foreign  
 
Required for the Project 
 
 
expenditures 
 
as specified in the Annex  
 
to this Schedule 
 
(2) Works 
 
 
100% 
 
(a) for Part A of the Project 
 
6,100,000 
 
 
(b) for Part B of the Project            150,000 
 
 
(3) 
Goods                                                
 
 
100% 
 
(a) for Part A of the Project 
 
3,100,000 
 
 
(b) for Part B of the Project         1,900,000 
 
 
(4) 
Consultants’ services,                      4,600,000 
 
   300,000 
100% 
 
 
training and workshops 
 
(5) 
Community Subprojects                  1,700,000 
 
 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(6) 
Operating Costs                                  350,000 
     
    100%
 
(7) 
Unallocated                                     2,100,000 
 
_________
__________ 
 
TOTAL                                         20,300,000 
    9,500,000 
 
======== ========= 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible imports” means the goods listed in the Annex to 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(c) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
(d) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of audits, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office 
supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances, travel accommodation, 
office rental and Project support staff recruited to work in the PCU, but excluding salaries of 
Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
For purposes of this Agreement, it is understood between the Borrower and the 
Association that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the provisions of a letter 
(
arrêté ministériel)
 from the Minister of Finance of the Borrower which provides for an 
exemption of taxes and custom duties levied in the territory of the Borrower on works, goods 
and services for this Project.  In the event of any change made to said letter which has the 
effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such works, goods and services, the percentages 
referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions.
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made  
in respect of: 
(a) 
payment made for expenditures under categories (2) through (6) prior to the 
date of this Agreement; 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1):  
(i) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount of SDR 1,900,000, may be made on account of 
Page  16
-
15 - 
payments for eligible imports made before that date but after  
April 1, 2003; 
(ii) 
for goods supplied under a contract which any international 
financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or grant; and 
(iii) 
for goods intended for military or paramilitary purposes, luxury 
consumption and used goods. 
5. 
Expenditures for eligible imports specified in the Annex to this Schedule and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be free from any taxes, duties or imposts 
levied by or in the territory of the Borrower on or in connection with the importation or 
delivery thereof. 
6. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works 
and goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) services under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and less than 
$50,000 for individual consultants, and (c) training, workshops and operating costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1 
Classes of Eligible Imports to be Financed under the Project 
1. 
Agricultural equipment and inputs, including fertilizers and excluding pesticides and 
insecticides. 
2. Construction 
materials. 
3. 
Transport vehicles and spare parts.
 
4. 
Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies.
 
5. 
School supplies and equipment.
 
6. 
Medical supplies and equipment.
 
7. 
Construction equipment, industrial machinery and spare parts.
 
8. 
Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts.
 
9. 
Petroleum and fuel products. 
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to accelerate its 
economic recovery so as to improve living conditions for 
the Borrower’s population in small 
municipalities and rural communities across the Borrower’s territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Support for Productive Investments in Small Municipalities and Rural Communities
Rehabilitation of community infrastructure at the departmental, municipality and village 
levels, 
inter alia,
 through the provision of labor-intensive employment to disenfranchised 
groups such as ex-combatants, the youth and female heads of households.  
Part B
:
Fostering Decentralization and Empowerment of Community Organizations
(a) 
Provision of Community Grants to Beneficiary Communities to support the 
carrying out of activities aimed at strengthening the ability of community-based 
organizations to reclaim control over the setting up of development priorities at the 
community level and to design and implement Community Subprojects aimed at reducing 
poverty at the local level.   Such Community Subproject may comprise 
inter alia
 the repair 
of small-scale infrastructure, construction of community markets and/or storage facilities, 
acquisition of agricultural input and implements, small agro-processing machinery and 
construction of community recreational and cultural centers. 
(b)  
Strengthening the operational and managerial capacity of Beneficiary Communities 
through the provision of appropriate technical advisory services with a view to securing the 
sustainability of decentralization and empowerment of local communities for self-
government. 
Part C
:
Enhancement of Economic Management Capacity
Strengthening of economic management capacity of the Borrower’s services at the 
central level as well as at the decentralized level through the provision of appropriate 
technical advisory services. 
Page  19
-
18 - 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
Page  20
-
19 - 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines),and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Modified International Competitive Bidding
1
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts for goods to be 
procured for the implementation of Part B of the Project, shall be awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C: 
(a) 
Commonly traded commodities
Commonly traded commodities described in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with Section II, 
paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Public Sector Imports
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph 2 (a) of this Part C, goods described 
in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement and estimated to cost less than $750,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
Borrower’s established procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association.  
(c) 
Private Sector Imports
Except as otherwise provided under paragraph 2 (a) of this Part C, goods described 
in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
established commercial practices satisfactory to the Association. 
Part D
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
3.  
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature up to an aggregate amount no to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.  
Procurement from UN Agencies
Subject to paragraph 1 of this Part, goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
from Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5.  
Community Participation
Goods and works for Subprojects under Part B of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and with procedures 
acceptable to the Association, as set forth in the PIM. 
6.  
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation 
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.  
Part E
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
Page  23
-
22 - 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, and for the first three contracts to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 6 of Part D of this section. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002, (the Consultant Guidelines); paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
23 - 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small assignments estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract and up to an aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; 
and (b) individual consultants for tasks under Parts A and C of the Project may be selected 
on a sole source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for implementation of Part A and Part B of the Project may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests 
for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and for the first three contracts 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part B and of paragraphs 1 and 
2
of
Part C of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and to the first three contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and  experience of candidates, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also 
apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  26
-
25 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Project Implementation Manual, Reports and Reviews
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation Manual; 
and (b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the PIM or any provision 
thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare through PCIU, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, no later than January 31 and July 31 of each 
year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, not later than 2 months  after the submission of 
the report referred to in paragraph b of this Section, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
IRIC’s and the Association’s views. 
4.  
The Borrower shall: (i) by September 30, 2004, furnish to the Association the ESMF 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) shall implement such ESMF in 
accordance with the modalities set forth in the PIM.  
5. 
The Borrower shall by December 31, 2005, carry out with the Association a 
Midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as 
the Midterm Review).   
Page  27
-
26 - 
(a) 
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things: 
(i) p
rogress made in meeting the Project’s objectives;  
(ii) 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project; 
and 
(iii) 
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall, at least 2 months prior to the Midterm Review, furnish 
to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation of each 
component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall, not later than 2 months after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of 
the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement 
such action program. 
B. 
Eligibility criteria for Community Grants 
6. 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule 4, no 
Community Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit 
unless SPB
 
shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted by SPB in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that the relevant Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified in the PIM, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
the Community Subproject shall be for: (i) the carrying out of civil works 
for community infrastructure such as construction of community markets and storage 
facilities, installation of small agro-processing facilities and construction of community 
recreational and cultural centers; and (ii) the improvement of basic social service delivery in, 
inter alia
,
health, nutrition and education; 
(b) 
the Subproject shall be technically appraised by appropriate staff of SPB; 
and 
(c) 
the Community Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set 
forth in the laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection. 
Page  28
-
27 - 
C. 
Terms and conditions of the Community Grants 
7. 
In financing Community Subprojects, the SPB shall enter into Community Grant 
Agreements with Beneficiary Communities concerned, under terms and conditions which 
shall include the following: 
(a) 
financing shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed $20,000 equivalent per 
grant; 
(b) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Community Grant be procured in conformity with the provisions set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the PIM and that such goods works and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Community Subproject; 
(c) 
the right of the SPB
 
to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association and 
the Borrower, the goods, works, sites, plants and constructions included in the Community 
Subproject, the operation thereof and any record or relevant document; and 
(d) 
the right of the SPB
 
to suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary 
Community to use the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary Community to 
perform any of its obligations under the Community Grant Agreement. 
 
Page  29
-
28 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 2 through 6 set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
 
FCFA 600,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 300,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)         (i) 
For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the  Borrower  shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  30
-
29 - 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account or Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account and the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
Page  31
-
30 - 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account, as the case may 
be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  32
-
31 - 
 SCHEDULE 6  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions generally 
applicable to development financing granted by the Association as a development credit and 
development grant to its members.  They apply to any development financing agreement 
providing for any such development finance to the extent and subject to any modifications 
set forth in such agreement.” 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
“8.  “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular Development 
Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions apply, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time.  Development Financing Agreement includes 
these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Development Financing Agreement.” 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
“15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the Development 
Financing Agreement.” 
16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on its books 
in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is credited.” 
17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant. 
18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and the Grant 
Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account).” 
 
Page  33
-
32 - 
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01 (3), 2.01 (12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01 (d), Article VIII, and Article IX. 
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of 
the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01 (6), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
6. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the “Development Financing Agreement”. 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts.  
The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by 
the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.  The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account 
and may be withdrawn from the Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the 
Development Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
8. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development grant 
agreement)” is added to Section 6.02 (a) (ii) after the words “any development credit 
agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to  
Section 6.02 (c) (i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the 
words “with the Association”, and to Section 7.01 (b) (i) after the words “any other 
development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association”.   
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, any 
cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied 
pro rata
 to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
Page  34
-
33 - 
SCHEDULE 7 
Performance Indicators 
 
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Association, the performance indicators to be used 
for Project implementation are as follows: 
1.  
By December 31, 2007, at least 80% of all activities undertaken to rehabilitate 
community infrastructure as referred to under Part A of the Project shall have been carried 
out with sustainable results.  
2. 
By December 31, 2007, Community Subprojets shall have been carried out in at 
least 8 Departments and in at least 3 municipalities other than Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire. 
3. 
By December 31, 2007, at least 80% of Community Subprojects shall have been 
rated by the Borrower as having satisfactorily achieved their stated objectives. 
4. 
By December 31, 2007, the following economic management benchmarks shall have 
been met: (a) a macroeconomic framework deemed satisfactory by the Association is in 
place; (b) a poverty reduction strategy paper satisfactory to the Association has been adopted 
by the Borrower; and (c) the amount of fiscal revenues collected at the departmental level 
and in municipalities other than Brazzaville and Pointe-Noire shall have increased by about 
20% on average. 
 
