                                     Documentof
                                   The World Bank


                                                        Report No: T-7595




                                TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                       FOR A

                             ONA PROPOSEDCREDIT

                       INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR20.3 MILLION

                          (US$28MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                             AND A PROPOSEDGRANT

                       INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR9.5 MILLION

                          (US$13 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                     FOR AN

        EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT PROJECT


                                    June 2,2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Country Department 9
Africa Regional Office

                                                                          2


CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                               SDR 1.OO =US$1.26543
                                 US$l.OO =FCAF308
                                     April 30,2002

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1to December31
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ACTED     Agence d'Aide 51 la Cooperation Technique et auDeveloppement
ADB       African Development Bank
AIDS      Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
BEAC      Banquedes Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale
EC        European Commission
ERP       Economic ReformProject
F A 0     Foodand Agriculture Organization
FMR       Financial Monitoring Report
FMS       Financial Monitoring System
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
HIPC      Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IF1       International Financial Institution
MIS       Management Information System
NGO       Non-governmental organization
PER       Public ExpenditureReview
PCIU      Project Coordination andImplementation Unit
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and GrowthFacility (IMF)
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SMP       Staff Monitoring Program
SNPC      SocieteNationale duPetrole
SOE       Statement of Expenditures
SOPECO    Societe des PostesduCongo
SOTELCO   Societe des Telecommunications du Congo
TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Program


                          Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                       Country Director:      EmmanuelMbi
                        Sector Manager:       CadmanMills
                     Task Team Leader:        Xavier Devictor

                                            REPUBLICOF CONGO:
                 EmergencyRecovery and CommunitySupportProject
                                               TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                                    Table of Contents

I CONFLICT.RECENTPROGRESS.ANDTHECHALLENGEAHEAD
 .
   A.  Impact ofthe Conflict................................................................................................                              1
   B. Progress TowardsPeace and Reconciliation ...........................................................                                                2
    C. Progress Towards Economic Reform ........................................................................                                          3
   D.  The ChallengeAhead................................................................................................                                 3

I1 GOVERNMENT'SRESPONSE
 .                                             ................................................................................................           4
   A. Economic Reform ................................................................................................................                    4
   B.  ThePoverty Reduction Strategy Paper .....................................................................                                          5
   C.  Decentralization................................................................................................... 5

I11 INTERNATIONALAND IDA RESPONSE
  .                                                                .............................................................................
   A.                                                                                                                                                     7
       International Response ...................................................................................................... 7
   B.  IDA Response ...........................................................................................................                           7
    C. Rationalefor the Project...........................................................................................                                8

N OVERALLPROJECTDESCRIPTION
  .                                                          ............................ ......................................................          9
   A.
   B.  Objective .............................................................................................................................. 9
                                                                                                                                                          9
    C. EmergencyNature ofthe Project..............................................................................
       OverallDesign..................................................................................................................                  10
   D.  Project Costing and Financing...............................................................................                                     11
   E.  Lessons learned reflected in Project design............................................................                                          12

V DETAILEDDESCRIPTIONOF COMPONENTS
 .                                                                                  ...............................................................      15
   A.  ComponentA: Financing ofpriority Local Investments.............................................                                                  15
   B.  ComponentB: Support to Community Organizations ............................................                                                       17
    C. Component C: Capacity enhancementSupport............................................................ 20
   D. ComponentD: Balance ofpayments support..........................................................                                                  23

VI INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
  .                                                                                                                                          .............26
   A.  Project Coverage andImplementation Period.............................................................                                           26
    B.                                                                                                                                                  26
    C. Implementation Arrangements ................................................................................
       Procurement Arrangements ............................................................................................                            27
   D. DisbursementArrangements ...........................................................................................                               30
   E.  Financial Management, Reporting, andAuditing...................................................                                                  31
   F.  Readinessfor Implementation and Conditions of Effectiveness.................................                                                      32
    G. Implementation Support..........................................................................................                                 32
   H. Monitoring and Evaluation .............................................................................................                            33
   I. EnvironmentalAspectsandCompliancewithBankSafeguard Policies................33

                                                                                                                                                     4



VI1
  .A.BENEFITS      AND RISKS             .......................................................................................................  34
       Benefits ................................................................................................................................ 34
   B.  Risks and Mitigation Measures.......................................................................................                       34

Appendices

Appendix A: Timetable ofKeyProcessingEvents..........................................................                                           36

Appendix C:Positivelist for importsfor ComponentD .....................................
Appendix B: Project Costs andFinancing .......................................................................                                  37
                                                                                                                                                39
                                                                                                                                                40
Appendix E: FinancialManagementArrangementsandAssessment..............................
Appendix D: ProcurementArrangementsandAssessment .............................................
                                                                                                                                                47
                                                                                                                                                54
Appendix G: Status of Bank Group Operationsinthe Republicof Congo......................
Appendix F:Performance Indicators................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                58
Appendix H:Country at a Glance.....................................................................................                             59


Map IBRD28856

                                                                                                 1


               I. CONFLICT,RECENTPROGRESS,ANDTHECHALLENGEAHEAD

1 ,     The Republic of the Congo (Congo) is gradually emerging from adecade ofpolitical
instability and conflict. In 1993-94, in 1997,and again in 1998-99, the country was torn by
violent conflicts, betweenforces loyal to various political leaders. War and civil disturbance,
compoundedby the sequels of a longperiod of mismanagement and corruption, have taken a
heavy toll on the country and its 3 million people. Physicaldamage is extensive, institutions are
inshambles, andpercapitaincomehasdeclinedfrom US$1,300 in1982to US$630in2000 (a
decline compounded by the devaluation of the CFA). Still, progress over the last three years
towards reconciliation and economic reforms have createdhopesthat the conflict trap -the cycle
of conflict and impoverishment -can be broken.

A.      Impactof the Conflict

2.      The conflicts have hada severe impact throughout Congo. The impact ofthe first two
conflicts (1993-94, and 1997)was concentratedinthe city of Brazzaville (which i s home to
about one quarter of the total population). The 1998-99 war brought havoc to southernCongo
(except the area around Pointe-Noire) andpartsof central Congo. Overall, damage and
disruptions are extensive, anda large partof the populationhas gone through horrendousordeals.
The country still has to deal with the legacy ofthese conflicts, including:

    0   Social and humanitarian crisis. The 1998-99 war causedlarge population movements,
        affecting about 810,000 people (almost athird of the population). Displacedpersons
        sought refuge inthe forests, where they livedinappalling conditions for up to one year.
        UNICEF estimates that about 250,000 peoplewere still displaced in2002. Inparallel,
        humanrights abuses were widespread-causing great physical andpsychological
        hardship. These events have severely damagedthe social fabric ofthe Congolesesociety,
        andcreatedan environment where explosions of social violence are not uncommon.

    0  Extensive looting. The conflicts were accompaniedby extensive looting of public as well
        as private assets. As a result, many institutions have been left inshambles (with damaged
        facilities, looted equipment, and lost records). Key private sector operatorshave closed
        down or reduced activities (non-oil activity, already weakened by the first conflicts,
        contractedby a further 19percent as aresult ofthe last war). A number of schools and
       healthcare facilities are no longer functional, leaving poor people with no access to basic
        services. Many families have losttheir few assets (50 percent of agricultural tools were
        destroyed and 75 percent of livestock was lost).

    0  Infrastructure damage. Infrastructure suffered from bothfighting and sustainedlack of
        maintenance. The roadtransport network is no longer functioning, many localities can
       only be accessed by air andmost feeder roads are impassable. The railway line between
       Pointe Noire and Brazzaville, the economic umbilical cord of the country, was destroyed
        inseveralpoints. Thishasbrought economic exchangealmost to ahalt andis inhibiting
        agricultural growth- andhence itrepresents a major obstacleto economic recovery.
       Utilities, including telecommunications, water, and electricity services, were severely
       disrupted. Despite abundanthydroelectric resources, Congo is increasingly relyingon

                                                                                                 2


         electricity imports. Telecommunications services are not available outside the five main
         urban areas (Brazzaville, Pointe Noire, Dolisie, Ouesso, andNkayi), and where available
         are too expensive for most of the population.

        Legacy of war-time mismanagement of economic resources. Public debt increased
         dramatically over the 1990s, which substantially reduces Government's capacity to
         address some of the problems it faces. At the end of 2001total medium-and long-term
        external debt, includingarrears amountedto 196percento f GDP. Domestic debt was
        about 30 percent of GDP in2000. Arrears are equivalent to about 94 percent of GDP. In
        parallel, many commercial banks becameinsolvent and illiquid-andhenceno longer
        havethe capacity to contribute to the revival of economic activity.

    0   Increased incidence ofpoverty and unemployment. Dueto the combination of looting,
        lack of infrastructure, and a deterioratedpolicy environment, economic activity is very
        limited. This has translatedinto massiveunemployment (above 50 percent ofthe labor
        force) that leavesmany, especially the young, disenfranchised, socially excluded, and
        without prospects for a better future. The incidence of poverty has increased- with about
        70 percent ofthe population, mostly women, youth, and rural people, below the poverty
        line.


    0   Spread of HIV/AIDS. War-time displacements and sexual violence have acceleratedthe
        spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemics. While detailed figures are not available, this has
        become one o fthe critical risks for Congo's medium-termdevelopmentprospects.

B.      Progress Towards Peace and Reconciliation

3.      Over the last three years, there has been continued progresstowards peace and
reconciliation. Since the cessationof hostilities inthe endof 1999, andthe signing of ceasefire
agreementsbetweenthe Government and key rebel leaders in2000, the security situation has
improved dramatically inBrazzaville and throughout the country. Progresshas been
consolidated inthe recent periodwith the demobilization anddisarmament o f some key militias
andthe signing on March 17,2003 of an agreement betweenthe Government and the last rebel
group, ledby "Pastor Ntumi", which had causedan upsurge of violence inMarch andJune, 2002
andagain from October 2002 to January 2003 inthe Pool Region. Still, the situation remains
fragile, andmost observers underlinethat significant efforts need to be made to address the
current social crisis for the progress o fthe last years to be sustainable.

4.      Inparallel, progresshasbeenmadetowards national reconciliation, withinthe context of
the five-year politicaltransition period agreeduponwithinthe Forum National. Reconciliation
efforts culminated on April 14,2001 with the adoption of a new constitution (by 84 percent of
registeredvoters), and on March 10, 2002 with the peaceful holding ofpresidential elections.
Legislative, andsenatorial elections were heldover the summer of 2002, leading to the
installation of all institutions stipulated by the constitution inAugust 2002 -andthe Parliament
andthe Senate, bothdominated bythe coalitionassociatedwith President SassouNguesso,
startedtheir work. Local assemblies at the municipal and sub-regional levels were also elected

                                                                                                   3


(prefects and deputy prefects, incharge o fregional administration, are appointedby the
Government).

C.      ProgressTowardsEconomicReform

5.      The recovery process needs to be accompanied by a deep shift ineconomic policies.
Since independence in 1960, the successive Governments have not been able to translate the
country's rich economic potential into an actual improvement o f living conditions for the largest
part ofthe population. Despiteabundant oil resources, poor economic management under a
centrally-planned economy, compounded by severe transparency issues, have resulted ina
worsening of social and poverty indicators -which is seen as a substantial source o f instability in
the current fragile post-conflict context.

6.      For the last year and a half, the Government has embarkedon a program o f economic
reforms, supported by the Bretton Woods Institutions, and inparticular by the Bank under an
Emergency Recovery Credit and by the IMF under the emergency post-conflict assistance
policy, and later a Staff Monitored Program. In-depth structural reforms have been launched in
the areas of economic governance, public expenditure management, poverty reduction,
transparency, financial sector, andpublic enterprises. Implementationis going well, andthere
are solid prospects for an access to the IMF Poverty Reductionand Growth Facility (PRGF) after
completion o fthe current Staff Monitored Program (which covers the period January to June
2003), possibly as early as Fall 2003.

D.      The ChallengeAhead

7.      Despiteprogress over the last years, Congo has yet to tackle the factors which
underpinned earlier rounds of conflict. For Congo, the key challenge over the coming years i s to
transform the relative political and economic stability achieved over the last couple o f years into
sustainable peace and economic recovery -that is, to break the cycle o f conflict and
impoverishment. Earlier lulls have been followed by renewed fighting within a few years. To
avoid a repetition o f such events, efforts have to focus on both addressing urgent needs and
tackling some o f the deep-rooted causes o f conflict (and inparticular the unequal distribution o f
oil revenues, the over-centralization o f a state-managed economy, and the disenfranchisement o f
large sectors o fthe population).

                                                                                                  4



                                  11.     GOVERNMENT'S    RESPONSE

A.      Economic Reform

8.      The Government i s committed to pursuing the implementation of its economic reform
program, which is supported by the Bretton Woods Institutions, to maintain macro-economic
stability, while tackling some of the structural constraintsto economic growth andpoverty
reduction:

   0    Economicprogram. The Government's 2003 program, underpinnedby the austerity
        budget, approved by Parliament inJanuary2003, aimsto: (i)       improve the health ofpublic
        finance; (ii)strengthentransparency inpetroleumsector transactions; (iii) upthe
                                                                                     free
        resources neededto reduce poverty; and (iv) normalize relations with creditors and
        reduce indebtednessto the banking system. The macroeconomic objectives are: (i)      real
        economic growth o f 2 percent despite amarked decline inoil production; (ii)    arate of
        inflationat 2 percent; and (iii)  aprimary budget surplus o f 9.3 percent of GDP.

   e    Revenue. Inaddition, because of the downward trend inpetroleum output, whichwill
        only beturned around in2005, the mobilization of non-oiltax revenueassumes particular
        urgency. The Government is committed to apply rigorously the newmeasuresregarding
        forestry (increase of the forestry royalty from 4 to 8.5 percent) and custom reforms.

   e    Expenditure. Regarding expenditure, the Government has taken steps to ensure strict
        adherenceto budgetary procedures. To contain current expenditure, a system of monthly
        expenditureceilings by ministrywas introduced inJanuary 2003. The Governmentwill
        also conduct targeted value-for-money audits to ensure the efficacy and legality of public
        expenditure. The Government has also endeavoredto re-orient budgetary expenditureto
        priority social sectors.

        Oil sector. Inthe oil sector, to strengthentransparency, the Government has launcheda
        series of audits o f the national oil company (SNPC). Oil revenues are being transferred
        infullto the Treasury, to finance budgetarypriorities. The Government intendsto
        continue inthis direction, andto broadenthe anti-corruption effort to other sectors.

   0    Debt. The Government intendsto pursueandintensify its policy of normalizing relations
        with all creditors. Paymentshave beenmadebothfor current service andto reduce
        arrears -which has allowed, inparticular, for the resumption o fthe African Development
        Bank's institutional support.

9.      Implementation to date has been encouraging, although there remain solidly-entrenched
vestedinterests. Despite the resistance it faces insome quarters, the Government has keptthe
overall effort on track and made noticeable progress insome key areas.

                                                                                                 5


B.      T h e Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

10.     The Government's responseis framedwithinthe context ofthe preparationofa Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The PRSP is currently under preparation (an InterimPRSP is
being finalized and is expectedto be publishedby late Summer 2003), but a consensushas
already emergedaround its overarching goal -to consolidate peaceand economic reform. The
paper is expected to be articulated around five major strategic building blocks.


   0    Strengthening the macro-economic framework topromote growth -including: (i)
        attracting private investmentfor rehabilitating socio-economic infrastructures; (ii)
        restructuring andprivatizing key public enterprises; (iii)reformingthe financial sector;
        (iv) improvingthe business environment inorder to facilitate a diversification ofthe
        economy; and (v) tackling the debt issue;


   0    Ensuringgrowth ispro-poor -and inparticular supporting the integration and
        participation of poor and socially excluded people. This will require action in:(i)
                                                                                          human
        development; (ii) development; and (iii)
                           rural                       specific programs for minorities and
        disadvantagedcitizens;


   0    Promoting good governance, strengthening capacity, and civilpeace -through: (i)
        institutionalreforms; (ii)strengthening of democratic institutions and processes; (iii)
                                  a
        fight against corruption; and (iv)judiciary reforms.


   0    Improvingaccess to basic socio-economic in3astructure and services andpreserving the
        environment -includingactivities inthe education, health, water, and electricity sectors.


   0    Fighting the HIVAIDS epidemic -through bothprevention andtreatment.

C.      Decentralization

11.     To implementthis ambitious agenda, while remedyingto the over-centralization ofthe
past, the Government has also embarkedon an in-depthdecentralization program. Accordingto
recently-passedlaws, there will be severallevels of Government:


   0    The Central Government, which includes inparticular all sectoral administrations and to
        whom branchoffices will continue to report.


   0    Ten "dkpartements" (formerly "regions"), covering the entire territory, with a population
        typically ranging from 80,000 to 200,000 people each. DCpartementalinstitutions
        include anelected council, an executive office of the council, andan elected presidentof
        the councilwho has the executive authority over technical services. The dkpartementis
        sub-dividedinto districts, rural communities, and villages and also includes
        municipalities.


   0    Six "municipalities corresponding to urban areas of more than20,000 people. These
                            'I,
        include Brazzaville (about 800,000 inhabitants), Pointe Noire (about 600,000

                                                                                                   6


        inhabitants), and four "smaller municipalities" with population rangingfrom 20,000 to
        70,000 people. Other urbancenters inCongo are only small towns with population
        below 10,000 people. Municipal institutions include an elected council, an executive
        office o fthe council, and an elected mayor, who has the executive authority over
        technical services. The municipalities are divided into "arrondissements".

12.     Departements andmunicipalities together are called "local collectivities". While decrees
defining the responsibilities to be handled at local level are still to be issued insome sectors,
local collectivities are expected to have expanded responsibilities inthe following areas:
planning, urbanism, education, health, social action, environment, agriculture, public works,
transport, mining, energy, employment, and general administration. Although financial
constraints and the continued control by the Governmentalauthorities over local branches o f
sectoral administration may prevent local collectivities from playing an active role inthe day-to-
day delivery o f social services, elected assemblies at the dipartemental and municipal level are
the most legitimate bodies for the definition o f investmentpriorities inthe relevant geographical
areas.

13.     It is expected that the decentralizationeffort, ifproperly implemented, will help empower
local communities and improve local governance - and hence contribute to the gradual
stabilization o fthe political and social situation by tackling one o fthe key issues underlyingthe
repeated bursts o fviolence o f the 1990s. This is particularly important for about half o f Congo's
3 millionpeople who live outside the two main cities (Brazzaville andPointe Noire).

                                                                                                  7


                            111.   INTERNATIONAL     AND IDA RESPONSE

A.      InternationalResponse

14.     Over the last years, the international community has gradually re-engagedinCongo, and
has shiftedits focus from humanitarian aid to development-oriented programs. Key donors
include: the EuropeanUnion (EU), France, and the UnitedStates -who are involvedina variety
ofinfrastructure rehabilitation, community development, and capacity enhancement programs.
Inparallel, UNagencies, inparticular the UnitedNatiops DevelopmentProgram(UNDP),
launchedspecific programs to support local communities and strengtheninstitutions. Still, the
country has not yet received a level of support commensurateto its needs or comparable to other
post-conflict countries -and assistance has remainedfocused on the most accessibleareas -
particularly the cities o f Brazzaville and PointeNoire.

15.    With recent developments, however, this support i s expectedto gradually increase, as
Congo is meeting some o fthe pre-requirementsset by some donors -inareas such as
democratization, decentralization, and economic reforms. Inthis context, a Donor Information
meeting is expectedto be heldinJuly 2003 to review the Government's progress over the last
period and to discuss ways by whichthe international community could support the stabilization
andrecovery processina more robust manner. This could pavethe way for abroader
involvement of donors.

B.     IDA Response

16.    The Bankre-engagedinCongo in2001 within the context of aTransitional Support
Strategy (TSS), which was discussedby the Board on January 16,2001. A newTSS is under
preparationandshould be submittedto the Board inFall 2003. Underthe current TSS, the Bank
launcheda number o f activities, including:

    0  Lending operations. Since early 2001, the Bankhas approved: (i)     aUS$38 millionPost-
       Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (inJuly 2001) to help Congo inthe aftermath of
       its clearanceo f its large arrears to the World Bank and support implementation of key
       structural reforms, helpto better manage fiscal resources, and assist inimproving
       governance andtransparency inthe oil sector; (ii)   a US$5 million Emergency
       Demobilizationand Reintegration Project (inJuly 2001) to facilitate the reintegration of
       about 10,000 ex-combatants into civil life; (iii)aUS$7 millionTransparency and
       Governance Capacity BuildingProject (inFebruary 2002) to accompany reforms
       supportedunder the Post Conflict Economic Recovery Credit; and (iv) a US$40 million
       Infrastructure Rehabilitation andImprovement of LivingConditions Project (inApril
       2002) to rehabilitate key infrastructure (including portions o fthe key railroad link,roads,
       andhealth facilities) andhelpmitigate unemployment issuesthrough avariety of labor-
       intensive micro-projects. An HIV/AIDSProject is also under preparationto help contain
       the rapidly spreading epidemics.


    0  Non-lending activities. Inparallel, the Bank has initiateda Public Expenditure Review
       (PER), a study on natural resourcesmanagement, and a labor-market analysis. These

                                                                                                    8


        efforts are expected to help tackle some o fthe key transparency and effectiveness issues
        the country i s facing with regardto economic management.

C.      Rationale for the Project

17.     For the full benefits o fthe recovery effort supported by earlier IDA-funded projects to
materialize, however, the benefits o freform and recovery needto be distributed to all
communities throughout the country. Mucho fthe assistanceto date has been limitedto the most
accessible areas, namely the cities o f Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. There is a widespread
consensusthat support to other parts o fthe country is critical to prevent the returno f civil unrest
and violence, as well as the further deterioration o f living conditions throughout Congo.

18.     The Project is hence a response to calls by the Government and Congolese stakeholders
for the Bank to provide support to the recovery o f communities throughout the country. The
Project is fully consistent with the objectives o f the TSS and i s expected to complement efforts
already underway to help the Government tackle some of the root causes o f the conflict -by
supporting further economic reforms and focusing on areas outside Brazzaville and PointeNoire.

                                                                                                         9


                             IV.      OVERALLPROJECT       DESCRIPTION

A.         Objectives

19.     The objective o f the Project is to assist the recovery o f communities living insmaller
municipalities and rural areas (Le. with a focus on areas outside the two cities o f Brazzaville and
Pointe Noire). This i s critical for sustaining the momentum o f reconciliation and economic
reform, and for consolidating the achievements o fthe last two years - so as to prevent new
eruptions o f violence.

20.     To that effect, and inline with the objectives outlined inthe TSS, the Project aims to
support interventions infour parallel directions: (i) financial support for the
                                                        provide
implementation o fpriority, small-scale rehabilitationand economic revitalization activities inall
departements; (ii) support activities initiated by local NGOs and community-based organizations
inall dkpartements; (iii) instrengthening administrativecapacities, at boththe central and
                          assist
local levels o f Government to facilitate implementation o fthe economic reform and
decentralization programs; and (iv) provide balance o fpayments support to finance critical
imports for the delivery o f basic social services by local governments.

21.     Detailed performance indicators for the project are provided inAppendix F.

B.      EmergencyNatureof the Project

22.     Inview ofthe fragility ofthe social situationbrought about andexacerbated bythe
conflict, and o fthe urgency to provide support to consolidate peace andmaintain the pace o f
reforms, the Project will be processed under OP8.50 on emergency recovery assistance. The
criteria for usingOP 8.50 procedures are being met, as follows:

    Impact on economicpriorities and investmentprograms. The impact o f the conflict on the
    economy and living conditions has been devastating. The Project i s expected to: (i)       support
    the strengthening o f local government, which is key for the effective provision o f basic social
    services inthe local collectivities; (ii)help maintainthe pace o f economic reforms; and (iii)
    contribute to improving living conditions inareas which have received limited external
    support and where poverty i s acute.

    Frequency. The emergency is the result o fa cycle o fwars -not o frecurring natural events.

    Urgency. The conflicts have causedtremendous suffering, widespread economic disruption,
    andweakened institutional andhumancapacities. Most observers fear that unless "dividends
    o fpeace" are rapidly provided inthe interior o fthe country, poverty and social crisis could
    generate renewed violence and insecurity, as exemplified by last year's events inthe Pool
    region.

    Prospectsfor reducingfuture hazards. The Project is part o f a series o f operations which are
    aimed at tackling some o f the root causes o fthe cycle o fwar -to helpprevent the recurrence
    of conflict. For this effort to be successfbl, however, the Project is critical as it i s one o f the

                                                                                                    10


   only channels to assist available communities insmall towns and rural areas intheir recovery
   efforts.

a  Expected economic benejts. The Project i s expected to help rehabilitate vital local
   infrastructure, provide short-term employment, and improve economic governance - all
   activities which would yield important economic and social benefits, andwould contribute to
   stabilizing a volatile social situation.

C.       Overall Design

23.    Components. The Project will include four complementary components:

   Two components are directly aimed at implementing rehabilitation and economic
   revitalization activities inthe ten dkpartements, through processes which are expected to help
   strengthen social capital and create short- and medium-term employment opportunities.
   Component A will provide resources for the development o f consultative processes to select
   investment priorities at the level o f each dkpartement, and for the actual implementationo f
   these priority activities. Component B will provide support to local NGOs and community-
   based organizations inimplementing community-level activities, and instrengthening their
   capacities.

   Two components are aimed at supporting the economic reform and decentralization
   processes, with a view to maintaining the pace o f reforms and improving economic
   management inthe dkpartements and municipalities. Component C will provide resources
   for capacity enhanckment activities at boththe central and local levels o f government.
   Component D will provide balance o fpayments support, to help the Government finance
   critical imports to facilitate the effective provision o f services by local levels o f government.

                 r-TheEmergency Recovery and CommunitySupportProject

                        ~~~~~                     ~


                     Obiective: Support recovery of communities living in
                               smaller municipalities and rural areas




           Support investments, strengthen               M   Support economic reform and
         social capital, and createjobs in all                      decentralization.
                                                         I      I                                1
                                                                  Component C Capacity
       I     I                                       I            enhancement for central/local
               Component A: Priority                              governments.
               rehabilitation inall dipartements.
       I                                                 Y      I                                 I
             I                                       I   I      I                                 1
                                                                  Component D: Support to
               Component B: Support to local                      balance of payments.
               NGOs inall dipartements.

                                                                                                11


24.     Complementaryactivities. The Project is not anisolated effort, but is complementaryto
other activities under a broadstrategy of support to Congo infacing the challenges associated
withpost-conflict recovery.


    0   Other IDA Activities: The Project will consolidate the benefits from ongoing projects,
        and expandtheir scope to areas outside Brazzaville andPointeNoire -placesthat have
        upto now, received little support. Itwill complement activities under the Infrastructure
        Rehabilitation and Improvement o f Living Conditions Project (mainly focused on
        Brazzaville and PointeNoire) and underthe Transparency and GovernanceCapacity
        Building Project (by providingfurther capacity enhancement insupport of reforms).

    0   Other Donors: The Project will also buildon and complement actions by key donors
        includingthe European Commission (EC), France, UNagencies, particularly the United
        Nations Development Program (UNDP), andthe UnitedStates -who are involvedina
        variety of infrastructure rehabilitation, community development, and capacity
        enhancement programs.

25.     Sustainability. Sustainability of individualrehabilitation andeconomic revitalization
activities financed under components A and B will be ensuredthrough aprocessof priority
selection which will exclude all proposalsfor which there is insufficient commitment to, or
provisions for, operation andmaintenance. Sustainability ofthe capacity enhancement activities
financed under component C and ofthe decision-making processes to be developedunder
component A will be ensuredthrough: (i)      continued involvement and support over arelatively
long implementation periodto provide sufficient time for key reforms to "take root"; (ii)
involvement of stakeholders for the monitoringof reforms implementation (e.g., regular
publication o f audits); and (iii)
                                policy dialogue betweenthe Bank, and where relevant the IMF,
andthe Government to guide the selection of specific activities to be financed.

D.        ProjectCostingandFinancing

26.     The Project is proposedto befundedthrough a combination of aUS$28 million credit
from IDA and a US$13 million grant from IDA-with the following breakdown:

        Table: Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project Costs (US$million)
                                                                     IDA     I Percent sftotal I
  ~   A. Financing of priority investments in all departments        14.0            34
      B. Support to community organizations                           3.0             7
      C. Capacity enhancementfor central and local Govts              8.0            20
      D. Balance of payments support                                 13.0            31
      Unallocated                                                     2.0             5
  1    -                                                                                       I
      Contingencies                                                   1.0             3
        TOTALPROJECT COSTS                                          41.0             100

                                                                                                    12


27.    Grantresources will be entirely usedto finance activities under Component A -which
are expected to focus on clean water, education, health, as well as rural roads for access to
remote rural communities.

E.     Lessons Learned Reflected in Project Design

28.    A numberof lessons havebeen learned through Bank interventions inother post-conflict
countries, as well as through earlier interventions inCongo. These lessons have been reflected in
the overall designo fthe operation, as well as inthe technical design o feach component.

29.    The most important lessons for the overall design o f the project include:

       Importance ofpeace and reform dividends. Experience inpost-conflict countries shows
       that the rapid and effective provision o f support ina fragile political and social context i s
       critical to restore hope incommunities, and hence allow for consolidating peace and
       implementing economic reforms. Such support can consist insmall investments or in
       supporting local economic activities, but it should be widely distributedthroughout the
       country to have its maximal impact.

       Importance of a successful decentralization process. Incomplex post-conflict
       environments, decentralization is often critical to stability. Still, the process needs to be
       managed to prevent the fragmentation o fthe country, and the deterioration o f social
       services delivery. Critical elements o f success include: (i) the capacity o f local levels o f
       government; (ii)  the existence o fparticipatory mechanisms involving all relevant
       stakeholders, inparticular to strengthen accountability o fpublic authorities; and (iii)  the
       adequacy o f fiscal resources available to local levels o f government, whether local taxes
       or fiscal transfers.

       Importance offlexibility and demand-driven mechanisms to effectively respondto
       rapidly-changing needs. Inrapidly-changing situations where the difficulties to come
       cannot be fully foreseen, experience shows the importance o f designing implementation
       mechanisms which allow for a flexible and rapid response to emerging needs -so as to
       allow for the removal o f critical bottlenecks as they appear. Still, flexibility should go
       hand-in-hand with focus, to ensure a maximal impact o f the assistance -andhence the
       importance o f a specific definition o f priority areas. Projects with mechanisms for
       flexibility, andprojects relying on demand-drivenmechanisms are best suited to provide
       the type o fresponses needed insuch environments.

       Relevance of community-level interventions. A growing body o f evidence from Bank-
       financed projects demonstrates that community-level projects are particularly appropriate
       for post-conflict environments. Inthe Rwanda Community Reintegration and
       Development Project, for example, close attention to usingjoint community activities to
       promote reconciliation between ethnic groups has been so successful that the Rwandan
       Government has extended the post-conflict designinto its national development plan.
       Another benefit o f this approach inpost-conflict environments is its speed. The East
       Timor Community Empowerment Project was able to attain national coverage within one

                                                                                             13


     year of appraisal (albeit inavery small country), and it has beenretained by the post-
     transition government. These projects have demonstrated conflict managementoutcomes
     thereby reducing tensions betweenresidents. Subprojects selectedthrough a local
     planning processare also usually better maintained thanprojects built on the basis of an
     external master plan, particularly incountrieswith tight budgetary constraints for local
     maintenance work.

     Importance offinancial support at critical times to keep reforms on track. Experience
     shows that, where there i s the capacity to manage funds with adequatetransparency, the
     provisionof early balanceofpaymentssupport is critical to keep economic reforms on
     track -particularly inthe context of heavily-indebted countries.

     Importance of targeted institutional support. There is ample evidence to suggest that the
     strengtheningof key institutions is a critical ingredient for the success of complex
     economic programs inthe aftermath of a conflict. InDRC, programs similar to those
    proposedunder component C, have provenkey to helping designandimplement some of
     the most important economic reforms ofthe last years -thereby allowing for satisfactory
     performance under the program supportedby the Bretton Woods Institutions.

30.  The most important lessonsfor the designof implementation arrangements include:

     Thefeasibility of overcoming the dfficult capacity constraints in the Congolesecontext,
     as demonstratedthrough the early success inimplementing the Emergency
     Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project. Proposed
     implementation arrangementswill buildon this experience.

    Importance of simplicity in the design of implementation mechanisms. Implementation
     arrangements should be kept simpleto accommodatelimitedcapacity. Where
     institutional capacity i s lacking, non-governmental partnersand international agencies
     can provide useful and effective assistance inimplementing parts of emergency projects.

   e Theneed topay particular attention to issues of transparency. This is critical not only to
     ensure proper use o f emergency resources, but also to facilitate the mobilizationof
    further donor support. Allprojects currently funded by the Bank inCongo have
     successfully dealt with transparency issues.

     The importance of close supervision and hands-on support by the Bank during
    implementation. Particular attention needs to bepaidto the quality and sustainability of
    selectedactivities, as well as to the level of inclusion o f women andmarginalized groups.

31. Lessons gained from consultations withNGOs active inCongo include:

    A consensus that creating economic opportunities in rural areas would go a long way
    towards stabilizing the social situation and improving the security situation inbothrural
    areas andurbancenters (which would benefit from increasedsecurity and better supplies
    of agricultural products). Small-scale rehabilitation projects carried out through labor-

                                                                                          14


  intensive mechanisms as well as employment generation activities can play a critical role
  inproviding poor andvolatile populationswitheconomic opportunities. This couldalso
  provide an important outlet for demobilized soldiers inneed o freintegration, without
  providing perverse incentives by singling them out.

eA consensus that Congolesestakeholders can effectively participate inplanning activities
  as well as in monitoringeffective implementation. There is concernthough, that local
 NGOs often have limitedcapacity and needto be strengthened before or as they are
  beinggiven responsibility for implementation of significant activities.

                                                                                                    15

                           v.     DETAILED    DESCRIPTIONOFCOMPONENTS


ComponentA : Financingof PriorityLocalInvestments(US$14 million)

Objective

32.      This component aims to help relieve the economic and social hardship caused by the
successive crises inareas that have received little external support over the last years, while
strengthening participatory mechanisms for decision-making at local level. It will help address
some o f the rehabilitation challenges inthe dkpartements andtackle unemployment issues by
promoting the use o f labor-intensive methods. Wherever possible and/or appropriate, special
attentionwill be given to providing employment to disenfranchised groups including former
combatants, unemployed youth, and female heads o f households. Activities under this
component will also facilitate the establishment o f an adequate consultative mechanism for
selecting local investment priorities at the dkpartement level. This is expected to help improve
local governance over time and could eventually form the basis for preparation and monitoring
o f poverty reductionprograms at the local level withinthe context o f the PRSP process.

Allocations

33.      Upon effectiveness, each dkpartement will be communicated a maximum allocation for
activities on its territory. This initial allocation will be based on a formula set by the Ministry of
Finance (75 percent of the amount distributedthrough equal allocations and 25 percent in
proportion to the population), for a total o f US$8 million. After eighteen months o f
implementation, a second allocation will be provided, for a total corresponding to the amount
remaining available under the component. The second allocation will be based on an adjusted
formula, which will reflect implementationperformance for the first allocation.

Selection and Financing of Activities

34.      Allocations will be communicated to the dkpartements by the entity tasked by the
Government to execute component A (executing entity A). Onthe basis o f the allocations, the
executing entity A will facilitate a consultative decision-making process to set priorities ineach
beneficiary entity. It i s expected that a strong promotional campaignwill be undertakenby the
implementingagency duringthe initialperiod after effectiveness. The campaignwill
particularly draw on networks that are represented throughout the country and that have access to
poor districts and households (e.g., churches). The executing entity A will encourage and
facilitate the necessary consultationbetweenkey stakeholders and relevant technical entities, for
a set o f local priorities to be agreed upon betweenthese representatives. Inorder to help
empower elected local assemblies, this process and its outcome will have to be validated by the
dkpartemental assemblies. Once the priorities are approved, andprovided the activities are
eligible for financing under the Project, the executing entity A will be responsible for procuring
the necessary works, goods, and services, and for supervisingproper execution o f the activities.
While looking for a broadparticipation o fall stakeholders, the implementing agency will be

                                                                                                   16


responsible for ensuring that the consultationprocess does not extend beyond two months after
launch inaverage.

35.      The executing entity A will also be responsible for advertisingthe decisions made and
mobilizing communities insupport o f monitoring and evaluation. Allocations and lists o f
priority investments will be published innational media, including radio, as well as locally.
Specifics on each activity (amount, implementation schedule, respective responsibilities) will be
posted by the executing entity A inkey locations for the beneficiary communities (e.g. schools,
etc.).

36.     Eligibility criteria for activities financedunder the component will be as follows:

    Nature of the activities. Selected activities should yield benefits widely distributed within the
    relevant dtpartement and contribute to improving living conditions withinthe community.
    Activities that can be financed may include, but will not be limitedto: social infrastructure
    (e.g., primary schools, dispensaries, community centers), economic infrastructure (e.g.,
    water, markets, slaughterhouses, transport, and energy), environmental and sanitation (e.g.,
    rehabilitationo f sewage and drainage networks, public squares) and other labor-intensive
    rehabilitation projects with a positive impact on the community. Works, furniture,
    equipment, materials andthe delivery o f services (such as training o f teachers or nurses, and
    campaigns to prevent the spread o f infectious diseases) can be financed- with no mandatory
    thresholds for community participation.

    Commitment to operation and maintenance. Realistic and sustainable mechanisms for
    operation and maintenance (including financing) o fthe rehabilitated infrastructure and
    facilities should be devised prior to the selection of the activity. This should include clear
    financing plans, as well as the namingo f individuals incharge. Particular attention will be
    paidto long-term sustainability, so that actions taken duringthe emergency situation (e.g. job
    creation) do not have long-term adverse consequences on institutions and programs (e.g. poor
    quality o frehabilitated facilities).

    Local contribution. An upfront contribution inthe form o f a provision corresponding to
    resources necessary for one year o f operation and maintenance will be required from the
    beneficiary local collectivity. This contribution could include in-cashand in-kindelements.

    Expected labor content. For activities to be approved, wage costs should represent a large
    part o fthe total cost o f the project. Initial negotiation with the communities will be grounded
    ontargets to be set by the Government andthe executing agency based on experience to date
    inCongo. These targets will be revisedbasedonthe experience gainedalong duringthe
    implementation phase. The selection process will favor activities with the highest job created
    by US$invested ratio. Particular attention will be given to the share o f employment
    opportunities accessible to women and former combatants.

    Maximal size and duration. Individual activities should not exceed US$200,000, andit
    should be possible to complete them within 12months after inception, keeping inmind
    seasonal constraints.

                                                                                                   17



ImpLementation

37.     The executing entity A will be employed by the Government through aservice contract.
Itwill have fullresponsibility for carrying out the activities financed underthe component, on
behalf of the Government, and inparticular for procurement and financial management-within
the context o f an operational manual approved by IDA as a condition o f effectiveness. It will
directly enter into contracts with local enterprises to carry out the relevant activities, and will
supervisethe execution o fthis contract, with a close involvement o fbeneficiaries inthe
monitoring and evaluation.

38.     Part o f the resourcesunderthe componentwill be usedfor financing the executing entity
A's operating costs directly related to the implementation ofthe component, as per a budget and
staffing planagreeableto IDA.

Cost Breakdown

39.     Funds available underthe Project will finance activities detailed inthe table below
(US$million):

                   Activity                   IWorks     I Goods    I Services I   Total    I
Financing of activities                            8.40       3.90        0.30       12.60
Implementation Costs                               0.00       0.30        1.10         1.40
Total                                              8.40       4.20        1.40       14.00


ComponentB: Support to CommunityOrganizations(USS3 million)

Objective

40.     This component aims to support small-scalelocal initiatives andto strengthensocial
capital inall dkpartements as a key element of a successful decentralization and empowerment
process. By strengthening community-based organizations, the Project aims to create the type o f
social organizationthat i s necessary for stakeholdersto participate effectively inthe definitionof
key priorities for poverty reduction, as well as for eventually increasing accountability oflocal
authorities vis-&vis the population. To that effect, the component will finance bothactivities
initiated by localNGOs and associations (whichare expectedto focus on economic
development) andprograms to enhance technical and managerial capacity of these organizations.

41.     The component i s critical inan environment where social capital has been severely
erodedby a decade of conflict andpolitical instability duringwhich large groups ofpeople were
forced to flee their homes and communities, andwere subjectedto large-scalehuman rights
violations. Restoring some organizational structure inthe non-government sector i s essentialfor
the eventualsuccess ofthe decentralization effort as well as for the stabilization ofrural areas
and small towns. Inthis context, the component builds on lessons learned inimplementing
demand-drivencommunity development projects inAfrica and elsewhere -inparticular as

                                                                                                18


regards: (i) importance o f empowering communities, inview of the role that such empowered
             the
communities can play inimproving design, implementation, andmonitoringof poverty reduction
strategies; and (ii)the needto accompany the provision of financing for activities with capacity
enhancementsupport.

Financing of Activities

42.      The componentwill finance demand-driven activities initiated by localNGOs and
associationswhich meet a numberof pre-set criteria.

    Nature of the NGO andor association. Eligibility criteria for the beneficiary organization
    will include: (i)being registered under Congoleselaw; (ii) inexistencefor more than
                                                                 being
    six months, andhave acquired experiencewhich i s relevant for the activities to be financed
    under the Project; (iii)beingbasedor having hadprior activity inthe relevant dipartement;
    and (iv) having adequateprocesses andproceduresinplace for accounts to be certified and
    auditedwith regardto activities financed under the component, including owning abank
    account ina financial institutionacceptableto the Bank. Where capacity is insufficient to
    meeteligibility criteria, localNGOs or associationsmay be askedto collaborate with other
    reputablenational or international NGOs, dependingon their records.

    Nature of the activity to bejnanced. The activity should help address a priority needfelt by
    the community/group andmightinclude: small-scaleinfrastructure repairs; development of
    community assets; small socio-economic infrastructure for community use suchas markets
    and storage facilities; provision of agricultural inputs andtools; establishmento frevolving
    funds; provisionof social service; purchaseoftraining or technical services; purchaseof food
    processingand other appropriate technologies; and community centers and cultural activities.
    Additional criteria will include: (i) of the requiredfunding, should not exceed
                                         size
    US$20,000 per activity; (ii)  complexity of the activity, should be commensuratewith the
    initiatingorganization's capacity and experience; (iii)  commitment to operation and
    maintenance as appropriate, demonstratedthrough the existence of a realistic andfunded
    operation andmaintenanceplan; and (iv) compliance with legal and regulatory requirements
    for the activity considered.

43.      Inaddition, efforts will bemadeto ensure awide distribution ofactivities across allten
dipartements andrelevant technical areas. Specific mechanisms will be definedinthe
Operational Manual to ensure such distribution.

44.     LocalNGOs and associationswill submit proposals-including evidence of eligibility
and adetailed description o fthe proposed activity -to the entity taskedby the Government to
execute component B (executing entity B). The activity will be financed underthe component, if
the initiatingagency andthe proposedactivity bothmeet eligibility criteria. Recipient
organization will be requiredto make an upfront contribution (which could include in-kind
contributions) inthe form o f aprovision for the first year of operation andmaintenance.
Beneficiary NGOs and associationswill be encouragedto obtain complementary support from
other entities such as private providers, NGOs, UNAgencies, and government technical
agencies.

                                                                                                      19



45.     With the support o fthe executing entity B-and withinthe context o f an operational
manualto be prepared by the executing entity B and approved by IDA as a condition o f
effectiveness -, the beneficiary NGOs and associations will be responsible for the
implementation o fthe activities they have selected. Financial support will be disbursed in
several tranches, following a schedule agreed uponbetweeneach beneficiary organizationand
the executing entity B. The first tranche, will bepaidat inception, andsubsequent tranches will
be paid after the executing entity B has verified the effective use o f earlier tranches (e.g., the
actual completion o f a pre-agreed part o fthe works, the effective purchase o f pre-agreed inputs
or equipment, etc.).

CapacityEnhancement Support

46.     This component will assist beneficiary organizations insub-project implementation and
management by providing financial and supervisory support andby enhancing managerial and
technical capacities. This will be a critical factor for the sustainability o f activities financed by
the project, as well as for the medium-term strengthening o f social capital inthe country.

47.     Inconsultationwith the potentialbeneficiaries, the implementingagency will select
appropriate intermediariesto provide the requisite technical assistance to local groups inthe
coordination, design, implementation, monitoring, supervision and operation o ftheir selected
activity, The executing entity B will procure the corresponding services. A symbolic fee will be
requiredfrom those entities benefiting from these programs.

PromotionalActivities

48.     A strong promotional campaignwill be undertaken bythe executing entity Bduringthe
initial period after effectiveness. The campaign will particularly draw on networks that are
represented throughout the country and have access to poor districts and households (e.g.,
churches).

Implementation

49.     The component will be implementedthrough a service contract betweenthe Government
andthe executing entity B. The executing entity Bwill enter into contractual arrangements with
the beneficiary organizations (which will procure the necessary works, goods, and services).
Part o fthe resources under the component will be used for financing the executing entity B's
operating costs directly relatedto the implementationo fthe component, as per a budgetand
staffing planagreeable to IDA.

CostBreakdown

50.     The Project will finance a number o f activities, the exact nature and scope o f which is
expected to evolve during implementation. An initial cost breakdown is detailed in the table
below (US$ million):

                                                                                                20



             Activity                    Works         Goods       Services      Total
NGO-supportedprojects                         0.80        1.30          0.20        2.30
NGOs capacity strengthening                   0.00        0.15          0.15        0.30
Promotional activities                        0.00        0.05          0.05        0.10
Implementation Costs                          0.00        0.10          0.20        0.30
Total                                         0.80        1.60          0.60        3.00


Component C: Capacitv Enhancement Support (US$8 million)

Objective

51.     This component aims to complement existing programs with a view to assistingthe
Government address some o fthe key issues associatedwith the process of decentralization and
economic reform. The project will particularly aim to:

        Improve economic management in the newly-created dkpartements and municipalities
        which have been entrustedwith significant responsibilities inthe social and infrastructure
        sectors. These entities currently have very limitedeconomic management capacity -
        whether for the selection of investment priorities or for the preparationandexecution of a
        proper budget. Their administrative capacity has severely suffered from the conflicts
        through the loss of staff, infrastructure, equipment andrecords. Inaddition, they are
        chronically under-fundedpartly due to inefficiencies inthe revenue collection systems.


   8    Provide the central Government with both technical assistance and institutional support
        inorder to strengthencapacity inkeypublic institutions andto implementsome ofthe
        economic reforms which are critical to restoring sustainedand sustainable economic
        growth throughout the country.

52.     These efforts will build on activities that have beensupportedby the Bank over the last
two years, withinthe context of the economic dialogue supportedwith the Post-Conflict
Economic Recovery Credit andthe Transparency and Governance Capacity Enhancement
Project as well as by the IMFunder the StaffMonitoredProgram. These projects have focused
on helping the Government manage donor assistance, support good governance and economic
management, and carrying out detailed sectoral studies to preparefor in-depthreforms. Much
has been learned inthe process, as regards the selection ofpriority areas and implementation
mechanisms-butrenewedefforts are neededto helpthe Government pursuethe economic
reform processand to tackle the specific challenges associatedwith the decentralization process.

Strengtheningof Local Capacitiesfor SoundEconomic Management

53.     The component will provide capacity enhancement support to all dkpartements andall
municipalities (inthe form o ftechnical assistance, training, and equipment) as well as to the
local branchesofthe central revenue collection agencies. Activities financed under the Project
will focus on: (i)
                 gradually improving the preparation, execution, and monitoringof local

                                                                                                   21


budgets; and (ii)   identifyinguntapped sources oflocal revenues, and helpingto de-bottleneck
collection efforts. Resources under the component will also be used to finance regular audits o f
budgetexecution (which will be communicatedto localNGOs and published inthe local press).

54.      Duringthe first year o fimplementation, the Component will finance individualized
assessmento f capacity enhancement needs inall local collectivities. Activities for further
financing will be identified on the basis o f these assessmentsand on the overall
recommendations o f the Public Expenditure Review currently underway, so that they can be
tailored to each collectivity's specific situation.

55.      Duringimplementation, activities to be fundedunderthe Projectwill be selectedjointly
by the Ministry o fFinance, the Ministry incharge o foverseeing local collectivities and the
relevant local collectivities inclose consultation with the Bank and the IMF. The Government
will formalize these needs through semiannual implementation andprocurement plans (including
terms o freference and technical specifications), which will be submitted by the Ministryo f
Finance to the Bank for no-objection. Once the no-objection i s provided, activities will be
procuredby the implementation unit, as per agreed procurement rules (which may include
further no-objections). An initialprocurementplanfor the first semester satisfactory to the Bank
has already been prepared.

CapacityEnhancementfor Economic Reforms

56.     Needs for institutional strengthening are expected to evolve rapidly as the process o f
decentralization andeconomic reform unfolds. Experience inother countries shows that
flexibility is key to providing the type o f support that i s needed infragile and rapidly-changing
post-conflict environments, such as Congo's. Experience also shows that capacity enhancement
activities similar to those to be financed under the component that have been funded inother
countries have proven very instrumental infacilitating the design and implementation o f critical
economic reforms. The design o f the component consists therefore o f two elements:


    0   Mechanismsforflexibility - to ensure that responses canbe provided with the adequate
        degree o f flexibility throughout project implementation; and


    0   Narrow list ofpriority areas to avoid that the necessary flexibility results ina dispersion
                                       -
        o f efforts.

57.     Mechanismsforflexibility. Support under the component will include the provision o f
external expertise, training, and equipment (such as computers) insupport o f capacity
enhancement activities inpriority areas. Specific needs will be identified by the Government
throughout the implementation period, inclose consultation with the Bank andthe IMFwherever
relevant. The Government will formalize these needs through semiannual implementation and
procurement plans (including terms o f reference and technical specifications), which will be
submittedbythe Ministry of Financeto the Bank for no-objection. Once the no-objection is
provided, activities will be procured by the implementationunit, as per agreed procurementrules
(which may include further no-objections). An initialprocurementplanfor the first semester
satisfactory to the Bankhas already beenprepared.

                                                                                                 22



58.     List ofpriority areas. Inview ofthe limitedresources available, selectivity i s critical.
The Project will therefore support only a limitedset of activities, aimed at addressingcritical
issues for which rapidprogress i s possible. Support will aimto complement efforts under the
Transparency and GovernanceCapacity EnhancementProject and IMFtechnical assistance
program, to implement soundeconomic governance andmacro-economic policies. Priorities
areas will be:

        Continued implementation of the economicprogram supported by the Bretton Woods
        Institutions -through the financing of selected studies and audits, the strengtheningof
        institutional capacity incritical areas, andexternal assistancefor the design and'
        preparation ofkey technical measures;

       Preparation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; this will inparticular aimto
        support the transfer of experience from other countries, sectoral and thematic studies as
        may be needed, andthe overall facilitation ofthe PRSP process.

       Implementation of thepublic service reform recently initiatedwith the support ofthe
        Bank; the reformis aimedat improvingpublic capacity to deliver key services, for which
       there i s strong Government ownership;

       Fine-tuning of theforest reform initiated by the Government. This reform i s aimed at
       reforming forest institutions (which should focus onpolicy and monitoring functions
       while relinquishing production andother activities that are better performedby the
       private sector), improving governance (particularly interms o f law enforcement andlocal
       participation), and increasing revenuecollection inthe sector;

       Decentralization. Support will aim to help establishat the central Government level
       transparent and effective mechanisms andinstitutional arrangements for fiscal transfersto
       "ddpartements" and municipalities. Activities funded under the Project may include
       technical expertise (e.g., to transfer experiencefrom other countries), training, and
       equipment. Fundswill also be available to finance regular audits andhelpadjust
       processes andprocedures.


   0   Implementation of the telecommunications andpostal services reforms which are
       underway (and were developed with the support ofthe World Bank). These reforms aim
       inparticularto strengthen the legal andinstitutional framework (for telecommunications,
       postal services, and informationtechnology), as well as to restructure the Societe
       TClCcommunications du Congo (SOTELCO) and the SociCtC des Postesdu Congo
       (SOPECO) so as to improve service andpreparefor increasedprivate participation.
       Preparationfor these reforms is well advanced, andthey could be launched with
       relatively limitedadditional support.

                                                                                                     23


Implementation

59.     The component will be implemented underthe responsibility o f a Project Coordination
andImplementationUnit(PCIU) established inthe Ministry of Finance. The PCIUwill in
particular be responsible for procurement o f all works, goods, and services, for the component.
Part o fthe resources under the component will be used for financing the PCIU's operating costs,
as per a budget and staffing plan agreeable to IDA.

CostBreakdown

60.     The Component will finance a number o f activities, the exact nature and scope o f which
i s expected to evolve during implementation. An initial cost breakdown is detailed in the table
below (US$ million):


                     Activity                      Works Goods Services              Op.         Total
                                                                                     costs
Strengthening     o f   local   capacities   for 0.20       1.30       1.50       0.00        3.00
economic management
Continued implementation o f key economic          0.00     0.90       3.40       0.00        4.30
reforms
Implementation Costs (PCIU)                        0.00     0.10       0.10       0.50        0.70
Total                                              0.20     2.30       5.00       0.50        8.00


Component D: Balance o f payments support (USS13 million)

Objective

61,     This component i s aimed at helping the Government put inplace adequate mechanisms
for the transfer o f fiscal resources from the central Government to the local collectivities - and
for the monitoring o f their effective use. It will complement efforts under Component C by
focusing on the audit and monitoring aspects and by providing balance o f payments support to
help finance critical imports to facilitate the effective delivery o f basic social services by local
collectivities.

Current Status of the Economic Reform Program

62.     Since the endo f the war, macro-economic stability has been restored, with contained
inflation (3.4 percent in2002), andeconomic growth (4.1 percent in2002). Over the last year,
an ambitious program o f in-depth structuralreforms was launched, inparticular inthe areas o f
economic governance, privatization, management o fthe oil sector, public expenditure
management andtransparency, and forestry. A Public Expenditure Review i s well underway and
i s expected to be finalized inthe coming months. It provides a framework for improved
transparency and effectiveness inthe use o f Government resources.

                                                                                                    24


63.     These reforms are supported by the Bretton Woods Institutions, inparticular within the
context o f an IMF SMP. Implementationto date i s encouraging. Provided performance i s
maintainedand adequate measures taken inkey areas, Congo could access a PRGF inFall 2003.

64.     The situation at the local level, however, i s worrisome, as most local collectivities do not
have revenues commensurate with their new responsibilities, inparticular for social services
delivery. As the country moves towards decentralization, local expenditures are expected to rise
rapidly. Restorationand/or establishment o f fair andeffective revenue collection systems will
take time and a significant gap i s expected to emerge at least duringthe transition period. In
view o f the fiscal situation on the Government side, external assistance will be needed to help
finance this transitional gap andhence allow for the overall reformprogram to remain on track.

65.     The Bank has gained experience inproviding such support, with the successful
implementation o fthe Post-Conflict Economic Recovery Credit. This credit played a key role in
the normalization o f Congo's relations with its external creditors andwas instrumental in
supporting the earlier stages o fthe economic reform process. Resources provided through that
project were putto good use andhave contributed to restoring minimal capacity for both
economic governance and social services delivery. The provision o f further support to the
balance o fpayments therefore appears a viable way to support the recovery process.

Continued Debt Burden

66.     With a stock o f debt estimated at over US$6 billion, Congo is one o fthe world's most
indebtedcountry per capita. Efforts are underway to settle arrears with major creditors, building
on the clearance o f Bank arrears inJuly 2001, But debt service has reached very highlevels and
increased from 60.4 percent o f Government revenues in2001 to 68.1 percent in2002.

67.     Inclose coordinationwiththe IMF,the Bankhasproposed atwo-fold strategy to address
thisissue: (i) the burden, through an accessto the EnhancedHighlyIndebtedPoor
               reduce
Countries (HIPC) initiative as soon as economic performance allows; and(ii)      helpthe
Government increase its capacity to mobilize fiscal revenues (e.g., inthe forestry sector) and
control expenditure. Still, inthe short-term, the Government does not have sufficient roomto
supportkey activities necessary for economic and social recovery. External assistance is needed
to help face these challenges, and keep the overall program on track.

Design

68.     The Government is committedto implementing the type o freforms supported bythe
component. Inview o f the existing track record, and to avoid cross-conditionality with other
operations supporting the implementation o f the economic program, there will be no specific
macro-economic trigger for the release o f funds. This i s consistent with OP 8.50 (Operational
Policy on Emergency Recovery Assistance) under which the Project is prepared.

69.     The positive list of imports which could be financed under the Project (listed inAppendix
C) includes a list o f items essential to support the recovery o f the economy, and o f the agriculture
sector inparticular. The fast disbursing component would contribute to stabilizing the macro

                                                                                                 25


economy by reducing the fiscal deficit, andmakingadditional foreign exchange available.
Additional budgetary resources would permit the continuation o f key recovery programs,
otherwise likely to be affected by fiscal resource constraints caused by the needto respond to the
emergency. Inaggregate, the imports financed on Government's account andthe counterpart
generated fromprivate sector imports will be usedto support the transfer o f resources to local
Governments, so as to facilitate an effective delivery o f social services indepartementsand
smaller municipalities. Retroactive funding could cover imports contracted as o f April 1,2002,
upto anaggregate value o fUS$2.6million.

70.     Balance o fpayments support provided under the Project will be disbursedinone tranche
upon effectiveness. Fundswill be deposited into a special deposit account opened inUS dollars
andheldinthe name o fthe Ministry o f Finance at the regional central bank (Banquedes Etats de
I'Afrique Centrale,BEAC). These resources willbe usedto constitute a counterpart fundthat
the Government can use to finance part o fthe fiscal transfers necessary for the proper
functioning o f local collectivities, including the resumption o f salary payments for key civil
servants. Implementation o f the component will be overseen andmonitored by the Ministryo f
Finance, and will be discussed within the context o fthe policy dialogue with the Bank.

                                                                                                  26


 VI.        INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION


A.         ProjectCoverageandImplementationPeriod

71.      The Project will be implementedover four and ahalfyears (June 2003 to December
2007). This is expectedto allow for sufficient time to strengthencapacity inlocal governments
andNGOs ina gradual and sustainablemanner-as well as to overcome existing limitations on
institutional capacity to implement arelatively large program of community activities.

72.     Activities under components A andB will cover all parts ofthe country except for the
municipalities o f Brazzaville and Pointe Noire (which correspondto about halfof Congo's 3
million inhabitants). Activities under component C will be implementedthroughout the country
as may be necessary.

B.         ImplementationArrangements

ComponentA

73.     To facilitate rapid andeffective implementation of the priority rehabilitation activities,
this componentwill be implementedthrough a serviceagreementbetweenthe Governmentand
an international organization with extensive experience inCongo inworking with community-
based organizations, facilitatingconsultative processes, andmanaging small-scale rehabilitation
activities. Basedon a review of NGOs currently active inCongo and an assessment oftheir
capacity and qualifications, the Agence dYide b la Coope'ration Techniqueet au De'veloppement
(ACTED), was selectedby the Government inconsultation with the Bank as the executing entity
for component A (executing entity A).

74.     ACTED has been active inCongo since 1997, and is currently implementing about US$2
million ayear o fprojects financed by various bilateral andmultilateral donors (ACTED'S
worldwide turnover is o f about US$20-25 million a year). ACTED has about 20 staff inCongo,
including 3 expatriates, andcurrently has active programs inthe Pool, Bouenza and Lecoumou
dkpartements. Supervision, procurement andaccounting activities are basedon international
standardpractices, andhave been reviewed by Bank Financial Management and Procurement
Specialists who found them adequate to implementa Bank-financed project. ACTED has
preparedanimplementationplanandhas identifiedadditional capacity to strengthenits team for
the implementation ofcomponent A.

ComponentB

75.     Similarly, component Bwill be implementedthrough a service contract betweenthe
Government and an international organization already active inCongo, and with extensive
experienceworking with community-based organizations, helping them develop their capacities
and implementing small-scale activities. Basedon areview of agencies active inCongo and an
assessment oftheir capacities andqualifications, the Government inconsultation with the Bank
has selectedthe UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP), which i s already implementing

                                                                                                27


similar activities (partly fundedby the Bank), as the executing entity for component B (executing
entity B).

76.     The UNDP office was establishedinBrazzaville inthe 1970sand since thenithas
developed solidproject implementation capacity, with a particular focus on community-driven
activities and support to the local civil society. UNDP is implementing 10projects, including 3
(for US$6 million) directly. One of these projects is fundedby the Bankthrough a US$1 million
grant fromthe Post Conflict Fundand implementation is proceeding well. The organization
operates inmost dtpartementswith aparticular focus on the Pooland inthe Southernregions. It
has demonstratedcapacity to adjust to the guidelines andprocedures o f various bilateral donors,
including IDA. A Financial Management Assessment and a Procurement Assessment havebeen
carried out by specialized Bank staff, andprocesses andprocedureshave been found adequate
for implementation of Bank-funded activities.

Component C

77.     The component will be implementedby the PCIUestablished inthe Ministry of Finance.
A Director has been appointed, a Procurement Specialistwith experienceinimplementing Bank
projects has been identified, and recruitment of other staff i s expectedto be completed by July 1,
2003. Hands-on external support i s expectedto be provided under the Project inthe first months
of implementation, to helpthe PCIU become rapidly operational. The PCIU will also draw
extensively on the experienceacquired inimplementing the Transparency and Governance
Capacity Enhancement Project andthe Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, and Living
Conditions Improvement Project. Inparticular, this component ofthe Project will be
implementedwiththe sameprocurement, financial management, andreporting proceduresas for
the Transparency and Governance Capacity EnhancementProject, inaccordance with World
Bank guidelines andprocedures.

ComponentD

78.     Implementation o freforms supportedunder component Dwill be coordinated by the
MinistryofFinance.

Overall coordination

79.     The PCIUwill beresponsible for the overall coordination of implementationofthe four
components-inaddition to its own responsibilities for component C.

C.      ProcurementArrangements

80.     Particular attention will be givento procurement arrangementsto ensurethat the Project
i s executedrapidly, transparently, and efficiently. The Project will finance imports (under
Component D), works, goods, services, community sub-projects(small grants), andoperating
costs. Procurementwill be conducted inaccordance with IDA guidelines as per "Procurement
under IBRD Loans andIDA Credits", datedJanuary 1995 (revised inJanuary and August 1996,
September 1997, andJanuary 1999), "Selectionand Employment of Consultants by WorldBank

                                                                                                28


Borrowers", January 1997 (revised September 1997and January 1999, revised May 2002), and
"Guidelinesfor SimpliJiedProcurement and Disbursementfor Community-based Investments"
(February 1998). Procurement methods to be usedunder the Project will buildon experienceto
date with ongoing projects, inparticular the Transparency and Governance Capacity
EnhancementProject and the Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, and Living Conditions
Improvement Project. Details are given inAppendix D.

81.     Procurement of Works. The Credit andthe Grant will finance works contracts under
componentsA, B, and C for anestimatedtotal amount of US$8.60 million equivalent. This will
include rehabilitation and improvement of existing social infrastructure (e.g., primary schools,
health, community centers) and economic infrastructure (e.g., water, markets, slaughterhouses,
transport, andenergy), and labor-intensive rehabilitation works. Undercomponent A, no
contract is expectedto exceedUS$200,000. Undercomponent Byno contract is expectedto
exceedUS$20,000. Works will be procured through National Competitive Biddingfor contracts
estimated to cost less thanUS$200,000 and more than US$50,000. Works will beprocured
through the Quotations procedure for contractsestimated to cost less than US$50,000.

82.     Procurement of Goods. The Credit andthe Grant will finance contracts to purchase
goods under components A, Byand Cyfor an estimatedtotal amount o f US$6.80 million
equivalent. This will include: (i)
                                 office equipment, hardware and software, (ii)   vehicles, (iii)
hrnitureandother specialized equipmentfor the rehabilitationof social andeconomic
infrastructure. Undercomponents A and Cyno contract i s expectedto exceedUS$200,000.
Undercomponent Byno contract is expectedto exceedUS$20,000. Most of the goods will be
procured as packages through: (i) NationalCompetitive Biddingwhencosting between
US$50,000 and US$200,000; (ii)    Shopping (based on the evaluation o f at least three quotations
and inaccordancewith provisions ofparagraph3.5 and 3.6 ofthe Guidelines)for contracts
estimatedbelowUS$50,000.

83.     Procurement of Imports (under ComponentD), The Project will finance the import of
goods for atotal amount o fUS$13 million equivalent, which will be procured under modified
international competitive bidding procedures. Commonly traded commodities will beprocured
under simplifiedprocedures, inaccordance withthe provisions ofparagraph 2.65 ofthe
Guidelines. Public sector imports estimatedto cost less the US$750,000 per contract will be
procuredunder contracts awarded inaccordance with the Government's establishedprocurement
proceduressatisfactory to the Association, inaccordancewith the provisions of paragraph2.63
and 2.64 ofthe Guidelines. Imports by the private sector, estimatedto cost less than
US$2,000,000 per contract, will beprocured under contracts awarded inaccordancewith
publishedcommercial practices to the Association, inaccordancewith the provisions of
paragraph2.63 and2.64 o fthe Guidelines.

84.     Consultancy Services. The Credit and the Grant will finance the contracting of
consultancy services under components A, Byand Cyfor an estimated total amount of US$6.80
millionequivalent. This will include studies, technical assistance, andtraining services.

    0   Firms. Such services are expectedto include: (i) professional services for communities
        and localgovernments; and (ii) andaudits for implementation of key economical
                                       studies

                                                                                                  29


        reforms (including inthe forestry andtelecommunications sector). For contracts in
        excess of US$50,000, firms will be recruitedthrough Quality and Costs Based Selection
        (QCBS) procedures. For contracts estimated at less thanUS$50,000, firms will be
        recruited through Consultant's Qualification (CQ) procedures.

    0   Individuals. Individuals will be recruitedwhere a firm is not needed, for contracts which
        are not expected to exceed US$50,000. Such individuals will be selected andrecruited
        on the basis o f qualification and experience (CQ) inaccordance with Bank Guidelines.

85.     Service agreements. The Credit andthe Grant will finance operating costs o fthe
implementationagencies for components A and B through service agreements between the
Government and each o f these agencies. Inview o f the nature o f the activities to be undertaken
which require specific qualification and local experience, and inview o f the lack o f alternative
implementing partners with adequate experience inCongo, these service agreements will be
entered into under single source selection procedures (as per Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3.9). Operating costs will include: (a) expenditure for the contracting o f auxiliary personnel
required for the implementation o fthe project; (b) expenditure and supplies for the operation and
maintenance o f facilities required for the implementationo fthe project (such as expenditures for
office supplies, rental fees, services, operation and maintenance o f equipment financed out o fthe
proceeds o f the Credit and the Grant); (c) expenditure for domestic and international travel and
per diems related to project implementationactivities; and (d) overheads. Operating costs for the
implementationagency for component C will also be financed under the Credit andthe Grant.
All procurement within this category shall be done accordingto the procedures defined above for
goods and services.

86.     Small GrantsAgreements (Community sub-projects). Under Component B, the Credit
andthe Grantwill finance small grants to local organizations (community sub-projects), for an
estimated total amount o f US$2.30 million. These organizations will include associations,
NGOs, communities, cooperatives andprivate organizations working with communities ineach
o fthe ten departements and four smaller municipalities. Beneficiaries will be selected through
transparent procedures acceptable to IDA, to be detailed inthe Operational Manual. They will
enter into contractual arrangements with the implementationagency (UNDP), as per standard
documents acceptable to IDA, to be detailed inthe Operational Manual. Contracts will not
exceed US$20,000 per organization per year. They may include procurement o f works, goods,
andservices, and will be executed by the beneficiaries, as per procurementprocedures
acceptable to IDA, to be detailed inthe Operational Manual. The implementation agency will be
responsible for monitoring the compliance with agreed procedures and the proper use o f Project
resources

87.     Each implementation agency will be responsible for the quality o f the procurements and
adherence to Bankprocedures. Each implementation agency is expected to prepare an
Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank, which will spell out processes andprocedures for
selection o f activities andprocurement, as well as a procurement planfor works, goods, and
services to be procured during the first implementationsemester, as a condition o f effectiveness.
For each subsequent six-month period, the procurement plan will be updatedand submittedto
the Bank for review andapproval.

                                                                                                 30



D.         DisbursementArrangements.

88.     The IDA Credit and IDA Grant will finance 100 percent of all expenditures, net o ftaxes
and duties. The disbursement schedule i s expected to be as follows: 38 percent inFY04, 14
percent inFY05, 18 percent inFY06, 19 percent inFY07, and 11percent inFY08.

ComponentsA and B

89.     Payment conditions for the executing entities under Components A andB will be
specified inthe service agreements betweenthe Government and these entities (respectively
ACTED andUNDP). ACTED and UNDP will be expected to submit an invoice on a quarterly
basis to the Government Separate invoices will be submitted for the management fee for the
Components and for the funds released to finance the implementationo f local projects. The fees
will be calculated on the basis o f specifications inthe service agreements, the financing o f
activity will be based on an exhaustive list and cost details o f activities, inaccordance with
payment modalities contained inthe respective ACTED andUNDP service agreements. Upon
receipt o fthese invoices, the Government will forward them to the Bank within ten working
days. The Bankwill make paymentsdirectly to ACTED andUNDPrespectively.

ComponentC

90.      To facilitate implementation andreduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, a
Special Account will be opened inUS dollars ina commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The Special Account will be managed by the PCIUandwill finance all
eligible expenditures under component C. The authorized allocation will be US$600,000
corresponding to about four months o f eligible expenditures. When conditions for disbursement
for the relevant component are met, IDA will make an initial deposit, inthe amount o f
US$300,000 into the Special Account, representing fifty percent o fthe authorized allocations.
The remaining balance will be made available when the aggregate amount o f withdrawals from
the credit/grant account plus the total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association shall be equal or exceed the equivalent o fUS$4,100,000. Inview o fthe
expected small size o fthe contracts, it is expected that a very large majority o fpayments will be
processedthrough the Special Accounts. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Accounts will
be made against monthly withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
Withdrawal applications will be signed by the PCIUDirector or the Minister of Finance, as
designated authorized representatives o fthe Borrower.

ComponentD

91,     Uponapproval o f the Project, the Ministryo f Finance will open a Special Deposit
Account at the regional Central Bank (Bunque des Etuts de l 'Afrique Centrale, BEAC). IDA
will deposit the proceeds o fthe Credit under component D inthis account. The Ministryof
Finance i s expected to set up accounting andtracking arrangements, similar to those under the
Post-Conflict Economic Recovery Credit, to ensure that resource from the Credit are committed
andexpended inaccordance with the provisions o fthe Credit. Government expenditure

                                                                                                 31


managementandprocesseswere found satisfactoryfor implementation of a US$38 millionPost-
Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit, approved inJuly 2001. Since then, they have been
reinforcedwithin the context of the ongoing Public Expenditure Reviewandwith hands-on
technical assistance from the IMF. The Ministryof Financei s expectedto set up accounting and
tracking arrangements, similar to those under the ERC, to ensure that resourcesfrom the Credit
are committed and expended inaccordance with the revised budgetary proceduresand
expendituretracking arrangements. The use of the finds depositedby the Bank inthe deposit
account will be subject to annual audits by auditors and on terms of reference acceptableto IDA.

Use of Statements of Expenditures

92.     Disbursementsfor all expenditureswill bemade against full documentation, except for
items of expendituresfor: (a) contracts for works, goods and equipmentinan amount inferior to
US$200,000; (b) contracts for consulting firms inan amount inferior to US$lOO,OOO; (c)
contracts for individualconsultants inan amount inferior to US$50,000; as well as all (d)
operating costs. Paymentsunder contractsbelowthose thresholds will be authorized on the basis
of Statementof Expenditures(SOEs). All supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained
at a suitable location and will be made readily accessiblefor review by IDA supervision missions
and external auditors.


E.      FinancialManagement,Reporting, andAuditing

Financial Management

93.     The executing entity for each componentwill be responsible for financial management.
A financial managementassessment ofbothACTED andUNDP has beencarried out, andboth
organizationshave beenfound to have financial management systems (FMS) satisfactory to the
IDA. However, inorder to strengthentheproject managementandfinancial management
system, an agreed action planhas been developed. This action plan-part of the FMS
assessment report -is available infiles. The financial management system of the PCIUwill be
developed inthe coming period, building on systems existing for other Government Project
ImplementationUnitsresponsible for ongoing operations -and its effective establishment
(including recruitment of key staff) will be a condition of effectiveness. Details are provided in
Appendix E.

94.     Payments to contractors under ComponentsA and C will beprocessedas per standard
practices. Payments by UNDP will be made on the basis of financing agreements signed with
the entities as describedinthe Operational manual. UNDP, after verifying the documents and
checking the availability o f funds will processthe payment.

Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs)

95.     UNDP is familiar withthe proceduresfor quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports on
IDA-financed projects. The PCIU andACTED are expected to receive training inthe use of
these proceduresby Boardpresentation. Bank guidelines regarding FMRs were discussedwith

                                                                                             32


all three organizations by Bank Financial Management Specialistsduring appraisal. The three
organizations have agreedto submit quarterly FMRswithin 45 days following the first day of
each calendar quarter after effectiveness. The formats andthe contents of the FMRsandthe
Annual Financial Statements will be discussedand agreedprior to effectiveness.

AnnualAudits

96.     The PCIU at the Ministry ofFinance will be responsiblefor organizing the annual audits
ofthe overall project. The annual financial statements, the movementsinthe SpecialAccount
(for component C) andthe Statementsof Expenditures (SOEs) ofthe implementation agencies
will be audited separatelyby anexternal auditor selectedwithterms ofreferencesacceptableto
IDA. The cost ofthe audit will be financedunder componentC ofthe project. For the purposes
of the audit ACTED and UNDP have agreedto keep inplace the original of accounting
documents and invoices. The terms of referencesfor the external auditor will be developed
immediately after effectiveness and submittedto the Bank for approval.

F.      Readinessfor implementationandconditionsof effectiveness

97.     The Ministryof Finance has establishedthe PCIU, and appointed aPCIUDirector as
well as key staff, andhas agreedto use the same systemsandproceduresusedbythe PCIUfor
the ongoing Transparency and Capacity Building Support Project. BothACTED andUNDP
have experienceinimplementing activities similar to those under componentsA andB (although
not inthe same geographical areas). They have preparedProject ImplementationPlans which
have beendiscussedwith the Government andthe Bank.

98.     There will be no conditionfor Boardpresentation. The government hasconfirmed that it
agrees with the FinancingAgreement as negotiated. The Credit andthe Grant will be effective
after the Bank has received confirmation, through a Legal Opinion, that the Financing
Agreement has been duly ratified; andafter the following conditions have beenmet:

    0   Opening o fthe Special Accounts.


    0   Preparationof an overall Operational Manual acceptableto IDA, including specific
        manuals for the implementation of ComponentsA, B, andC.

    0   Signing of the conventions betweenthe Government andACTED and the Government
        andUNDP.

    0   Appointments of a qualifiedfinancial manager and a qualified procurement specialist
        within the PCIU.

G.      ImplementationSupport

99.     Bankwill devote 15 staff weeks peryear to supervise progress inimplementingthe
Project, andatotal o f 67 staff weeks through mid-FY08. Management of Project will be
transferred early on to a senior staff inthe Brazzaville Country Office to ensure close

                                                                                                    33


implementationsupport and responsiveness to rapidly-changing needs. Supervision will in
particular focus on: (i) performance o f the executing entities inmanaging contracts, procurement,
and financial matters; (ii) adequacy o fthe capacity enhancement activities under component C
withthe Congo's reforms needs; and (iii)       tracking o f expenditure for funds released under
component D.

H.       Monitoringand Evaluation

100.     Reviews will be carried out every year after effectiveness to assess progress, achievement
o f overall objectives, role o f the different partners, and to eventually reorient the Project if
neededto ensure achievement o f objectives. The PCIUwill be responsible for: (i)         preparingthe
necessary documentation for the reviews, and (ii)     planningthe review meeting. Inparticular, the
PCIUwill contract an independent consultant for each review (under financing from Component
C) to review and assess the progress o f implementation andprepare the necessary documentation
for the review. The reviews will involve visits to selected sites for first-handassessment o f
executing entities' performance.

I. EnvironmentalAspectsandComplianceWithBankSafeguardPolicies

101,     The Project is classified as environmental category B becauseno activity funded under
the Project is expected to have a significant negative environmental or social impact. It should
be notedthat the emergency was inno way relatedto inappropriate environmental management
practices. Operational manuals to be prepared for components A and B will include screening
procedures, to ensure that no activity with a potential negative environmental or social impact is
selected for financing, without appropriate mitigation measures. These procedures will be
adjusted to reflect the findings andrecommendations o f an Environmental and Social
Management Framework and a Resettlement Policy Framework to be preparedwithinone year
o f effectiveness (as allowed for emergency projects processed under OP 8.50).

                                                                                                    34


                                   VII.      BENEFITSAND RISKS


A.          Benefits

102.     The proposedProject is expectedto contribute to Congo's stabilization andrecovery
process. Inparticular, it will provide four types of benefits: (i)  contribute to improvingliving
conditions inareas which to date have received limitedexternal support and where poverty is
acute, by financing priority investments; (ii) maintain the pace o f economic reforms, in
                                                 help
particular inthe key areas ofpublic service reform, decentralization, PRSPpreparation, forestry,
andtelecommunications; (iii) strengthen civil society inrural areas and small towns, which
                                  help
i s a key element for local governance and improved service delivery inthese areas; and (iv)
facilitate the decentralization processand the effective provisionof basic social servicesby
supporting economic management inlocal collectivities which have recently been entrusted with
important responsibilities inthese areas.

B.         RisksandMitigationMeasures

103.     Inlight ofthe Republic of Congo's fragile political situation andits relatively weak
implementation capacity, the risks are significant. Implementation o fthe Project andthe
materialization o fthe expectedbenefits could bejeopardized ifone o f several criticalrisks came
to materialize, including:

         Regional instability and threats to thepeaceprocess. The peaceprocess inCongo is
         intrinsically linkedto progressthroughout the region. Wars and civil conflicts have
         engulfed a large part o f Central Africa over the last decade, including three of Congo's
         five neighbors. Recovery cannot be isolated, andwill require a stabilization of the entire
         sub-regionto be sustainable.

         The Project aims to helpreduce the odds for renewedconflict inCongo. These actions
         are expectedto be complemented by parallel programs both in Congo and inother
         affected countries inthe region with a view to promoting an overall returnto stability.
         The situation inCongo itselfwill be closely monitored (inconjunction with key
         bilaterals), so as to allow for the mitigationof political and social risks as they emerge.

         Localized eruptions of violence. Over the last years, there have been sporadic explosions
         ofviolence insome areas (mostly inthe Pool Region). While tensions have subsided,
         andagreementshave been signedwith all rebel groups, violence or insecurity could re-
         emerge inlocalized areas and compromise Project implementation.

         The Project will be implementedonly inthose areas where Bank and implementation
         agencies staff can effectively travel to supervise activities. Incase of localized
         insecurity, implementation may be temporarily suspendedby the implementation agency
         -butshouldresumeassoonasorderhasbeenrestored.

                                                                                               35


   0   Dfjculties on the reform path. Strong anti-reform constituencies remain influential in
       Congo -withinthe administration as well as among private operators. Recent reforms
       could be overturned by a newteam (although this will become more and more difficult as
       time passes and reforms are takingroots) or delayed by unwillingstakeholders.

       The Project aims to help strengthen the pro-reform constituencies to mitigate this risk.
       Progress will be closely monitored by the Bretton Woods Institutionsthrough an
       intensive policy dialogue, so as to react to slippages early on.


   0   Compromised administrative capacity. After a decade o f conflict and instability,
       implementation capacity remains limited, whether for Government-initiated policy
       reforms or for Bank-fundedprojects. This could become a critical obstacle to the
       effective implementation o f the reform program and support projects.

       The proposed implementation arrangements build on early success inimplementing other
       projects inCongo. This experience shows that difficulties can be overcome, but regular
       reviews will pay particular attentionto the issue o f implementation performance, and
       may propose adjustments to strengthen it.


   0   Fiduciary risk. Although the Government has launchedan effort to attack corruption, the
       fiduciary environment inCongo remains risky. This is a critical risk, which is reflected
       inthe riskratingfor procurementandfinancial management.

       The proposedimplementation arrangements have been designed to minimize this risk, by
       relying on three different executing entities (including two foreign entities) and by
       ensuring that proper safeguards inprocurement and financial management procedures are
       inplace. Inview o fexperience to date inimplementing Bank-fundedoperations in
       Congo, such arrangements should be adequate to mitigate the fiduciary risks.

104.   Itshould beunderlinedthat while the risks of actionare significant, the risks o finaction
may be even higher ina context like Congo, where there have been three rounds o fviolent
conflict over the last decade. International support i s critical for the Government, andthe
Congolese society at large, to break the conflict trap.

                                                                                  36


                                APPENDIX A.
                       Timetableof key processingevents




                                          Planned                  Actual
Time takento preparethe Project:          8 months                 6 months
Project prepared by:                      Xavier Devictor,
                                          Alassane Diawara,
                                          Jacques Bur6
Decision Meeting:                         April 24,2003            April 24,2003
Appraisal:                                May 2003                 May 2003
Negotiations:                             May 2003                 May 19-20,
                                                                   2003
BoardPresentation:                        June 26,2003             June 24,2003
Project Effectiveness                     August 2003
Project Completion:                       June 30,2007




This operationwas preparedby a team ledby Xavier Devictor(Senior Country
Officer, AFC09) and including, Alassane Diawara(CountryManager for Republic
of Congo, AFC09), JacquesBure (Consultant), T. Mpoy-Kamulayi(Lead
Counsel), Albert Osei (Consultant), MweluNdeti (Consultant), Marie Chantal
Uwanyiligira(Operations Analyst, AFC09), MoniquePiette(Program Assistant
(AFC09), Renee Desclaux(Finance Officer, LOAGl),   Abdul Adji (Consultant),
Jean-CharlesKra(Financial Management Specialist, ACF09), HenriAka
(Procurement Specialist, AFTPC), and Luc Lapointe(Procurement Specialist,
AFTPC).

The Advisory Committee is composedof OusmaneSissoko (AFTRl), Eustache
Ouayoro (AFTU2), Salomon Samen(AFTM3), ElizabethAdu (LEGAF) and
Willem Zijp (AFTQK). The Sector Manager was CadmanAtta Mills andthe
CountryDirector was EmmanuelMbi.

                                                                                                37


                                             APPENDIX B.
                                      ProjectCostsand Financing

                                                TableA
                         Emergencv Recoverv and CommunitvSuuuort Project
                                 Components Program CostsSummarv

                                                              r          (US$ million)
 ProgramComponents                                            Local Foreign Total   %      %
                                                                                    Foreign Total
                                                                                    Exch.  Base
                                                                                            costs
    A. Financing o fpriority local investments                12.60 1.40    14.00       10      37
    B. Support to community organizations                     2.55  0.45    3.00        15       8
    C. Capacity enhancementfor central and local              2.00  6.00    8.00        75      21
        Government
    D. Balance ofpayments support                             0.00  13.00   13.00      100      34
    TotalBaselineCosts                                        17.15 20.85   38.00       55     100
    Unallocated                                               1.40  0.60    2.00        30       5
    Physical Contingencies                                    0.35  0.15    0.50        30       1
    Price Contingencies                                       0.35  0.15    0.50        30       1
    TotalProjectCosts                                         19.25 21.75   41.00       53     107
Note:Jigures may not add up to total due to rounding



                                                TableB
                        Emergency Recoverv and CommuniqSuuport Project
                                          Financial Summarv
                                         (US$ million equivalent)


                                                      ImDlementationDeriod(FY Julv 1-June 30)
                                                   2004     2005   2006    2007     2008    Total
 TotalFinancingrequired
 ProjectCosts
        Investment Costs                           15.50     5.50   7.50   7.50     4.50    40.50
        Recurrent Costs                             0.10     0.10   0.10   0.10     0.10     0.50
 Total ProjectCosts                                1.5.60    5.60   7.60   7.60     4.60    41.00
 Total ProjectFinancing                              -         -     -      -                  -

~Financing
        IDA                                        15.60     5.60   7.60   7.60     4.60    41.00
        Government
 Total ProjectFinancing                            1.5.60    5.60   7.60   7.60     4.60    41.00

                                                                               38



                                     TableC
                 EmergencyRecoverv and Communi@SupportProject
                            IDA Disbursementper Year
                              (US$ million equivalent
                           (FiscalYear July 1-June 30)

BankFY                                2004      2005     2006   2007  2008  Total
     Annual                           15.60     5.60     7.60   7.60  4.60  41.00
     Cumulative                       15.60     21.20    28.80  36.40 41.00 41.00
     Percentage                         38       52       70     89    100   100




                                     TableD
                 Emergency Recoverv and CommunitySuaaort Project
                     Allocation of IDA Credit/Grant Proceeds
                             (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                                         39

                                        APPENDIX C.
                          Positivelist of importsfor ComponentD


1. Agricultural equipment and inputs, including fertilizer andexcluding pesticides and
insecticides.
2. Petroleumand fuel products.
3. Construction materials.
4. Transport vehicles and spare parts.
5. Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies.
6. School supplies andequipment.
7. Medical supplies and equipment.
8. Construction equipment, industrial machinery and spare parts.
9. Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts.

                                                                                                  40

                                          APPENDIXD.
                          ProcurementArrangements andAssessment


General

 105.  The Project will finance, services, goods, operating costs and civil works. Procurement
will beconductedinaccordancewith IDA guidelines as per "Procurement under IBRD Loans
andIDA Credits", datedJanuary 1995 (revised inJanuaryandAugust 1996, September 1997,
andJanuary 1999), "Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers",
January 1997 (revised September 1997 andJanuary 1999,revised May 2002), and "Guidelines
for SimpliJied Procurement and Disbursement for Community-based Investments'' (February
 1998). Procurementmethodsto be usedunder the Project will buildon experience to date with
ongoing projects, inparticular the Transparency and Governance Capacity Enhancement Project
andthe Emergency Reconstruction, Rehabilitation, and Living Conditions Improvement Project.
National Regulations cannot be usedunder the Project inthe absence of a Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR).

ProcurementResponsibilities

 106.  Procurementresponsibilities are describedinthe matrix below:

  Component / Subcomponent                    Executing     Itemsto be procured        Agency in
                                                entity                                 charge of
                                                                                      procurement
  A. Financingofpriority local                ACTED        Works/goods/services       ACTED
     investments(US$14 million)
  B. Support to Community                     UNDP         Works/goods/services       LocalNGOs
     organizations (US$3 million)
  C. Capacity enhancementfor local and        PCIU         Goods/services             PCIU
     central Government (US$8 million)
 D. Balanceofpayments support                 Min.        N/A                         N/A
     (US$13 million)                          Finance

107.   Eachagency, with the exclusion of ComponentD, will beresponsible for the quality of
the procurementsand adherence to Bank procedures. The tasks ofthe executing entities will
comprise: (a) maintaining registers of all interested bidders; (b) maintaining a detailed list o f
technical specifications of goods and services to be financed by the project; (c) preparing and
updating procurement plans andcalendars; (d) preparing and/or finalizing bidding documents
andrequests for proposals; (e) preparing bidevaluation reports; (f) approving contracts; (g)
processinginternational and local price quotations; (h) receiving o f goods and services and
dispatching; and (i) monitoring of contracts implementation.

ProcurementCapacityAssessment

108.   A procurementcapacity assessment ofthe executing entityA (ACTED) was carried out
during project appraisal, to confirm procurement capacity ofthese agencies. The result is

                                                                                                41

includedinan action plandrawn upto enhance procurement capacity before and during project
implementation, includingtechnical assistance andtraining. For the executing agency for
Component B (UNDP), which will haveto handleactivities of a limitedsize (less than
US$20,000) procurement capacity was deemedadequate for the execution ofthe project, which
will be executedon the basis of a Manual of Procedures. As regards Component Cysince the
PCIUis recently created, it is not possibleto assess its procurement capacity. However, the core
staff ofthe PCIUwill include a senior procurement agent familiar with World Bank's
procurementprocedures as reflected inthe Terms of Reference approvedby the Bank. The
senior procurement agent will: (i) all procurement activities ofthe Project; (ii)
                                    monitor                                              supervise
compliance by the executing entities withthe agreedprocurement guidelines for the execution of
Components A and By(iii) enhance capacities of executing entities which have insufficient
                            help
procurement capacities as needed.Procurementprocedures and responsibilities inthe PCIU are
identical to those underthe Transparency andGovernance Capacity Enhancement Project
currently under implementation. The recruitmentof corresponding staff, inamanner satisfactory
to the Bank, is a condition o f effectiveness.

ProcurementPlan

109.    For component Cya draft ProcurementPlan for goods and servicesto beprocured during
the first implementation semester of the Project has been discussedduring appraisalandhas been
agreedupon betweenthe Government andthe Bank during negotiations. For each subsequent
period, an annual procurement planwill bepreparedand submittedto the Bankfor review and
approval. These annual plans will include procedures for procurement, contract packagesfor
goods, works, and consultants services and training, estimated cost and the procurement/
selectionmethod. It is mandatory that all procurement be carried out inaccordance with the
formally agreedannual procurement plan (original and formally up-dated).

Procurementmethods

110.    Procurementof Works. The project will finance works contracts under components A, By
and C for an estimatedtotal amount of US$8.60 million equivalent. This will include
rehabilitation and improvement of existing social infrastructure (e.g., primary schools, health,
community centers) and economic infrastructure (e.g., water, markets, slaughterhouses,
transport, and energy), and labor-intensive rehabilitation works. Under component A, no
contract is expectedto exceedUS$200,000. Undercomponent Byno contract is expectedto
exceedUS$20,000. Works will beprocured through National Competitive Biddingfor contracts
estimatedto cost less than US$200,000 and more thanUS$50,000. Small works estimatedto
cost less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.00 million equivalent
may beprocured under lump-sum,fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtainedfrom three qualified domestic contractors invitedinwriting to bid. The invitation shall
includeadetailed descriptionof the works, includingbasic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptableto IDA, andrelevant drawings where
applicable. The awards will be madeto the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for
the requiredwork, provided they demonstratethey havethe experienceandresources to
completethe contract successfully.

                                                                                                 42

 111.    Procurementof Goods. The project will finance the purchaseof goods under components
A, B, andC, for anestimatedtotal amount ofUS$6.80 millionequivalent. Thiswill include:(i)
office equipment, hardwareand software, (ii)   vehicles, (iii)
                                                             hrniture andother specialized
equipmentfor the rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure. Undercomponent A and
Cyno contract is expectedto exceedUS$200,000. But contracts abovethis amount will be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Under component B, no contract is
expectedto exceedUS$20,000. Most of the goods will be procured as packagesthrough: (i)
National Competitive Bidding(NCB) when costing betweenUS$50,000 and US$200,000; (ii)
Shopping (based on the evaluation of at least three quotations and inaccordancewithprovisions
of paragraph3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines) for contractsbelow US$50,000.

112.    For NCB procedures, the Government has given assurances during negotiations that: (i)
bidswill be advertisedinnational newspaperswith wide circulation; (ii)    methods used inthe
evaluation of bids andthe award of contracts are made known to all biddersandare not applied
arbitrarily; (iii)
                any bidder is given adequateresponse time (four weeks) for preparation and
submissionof bids; (iv) bid evaluation andbidderqualification are clearly specified inbidding
documents; (v) no preferencemarginis grantedto domestic manufacturers; (vi) eligible firms,
includingforeign firms are not precluded from participation; (vii) award will be madeto the
lowest evaluatedbidder inaccordancewith pre-determinedand transparent methods; and (viii)
bidevaluation reports will clearly state the reasonsto reject any non-responsive bid. Standard
BiddingDocuments to beusedfor NCB will bereviewed by IDA before effectiveness.

113.    National andInternational Shopping solicitations will (a) be issued inwriting to at least
three reputable suppliers (it may be better to approachfive or six suppliers because not all three
suppliersmay respond, so that at leastthree competitive quotations are received), (b) include
specifications, and ifgoods are not immediately available, the delivery time, (c) give the
estimated cost, including cost of inlandtransportation and insurance, (d) be openedat the same
time for evaluation, and (e) inthe case of International shopping quotations, be solicited from at
least three suppliers intwo different countries.

114.    Equipment,suchas computers andvehicles to cost less thanUS$200,000 canbeprocured
from the UnitedNations Agencies (IAPSO), upto anaggregate of US$0.5 million equivalent, in
accordancewith the Bank Guidelines.

115.    Direct Contracting. Goods which must bepurchasedfrom the original supplierto be
compatible with existing equipment or are o f aproprietary nature up to an aggregate amount no
to exceedUS$200,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, beprocured in
accordancewith the provisions of paragraph3.7 of the Guidelines.

116.    Procurementof imports (under Component D). The Project will finance the import of
goods for atotal amount of US$13 million equivalent, which will be procured undermodified
international competitive biddingprocedures. Commonly traded commodities will beprocured
under simplifiedprocedures, inaccordancewiththe provisions ofparagraph 2.65 ofthe
Guidelines. Public sector imports estimatedto cost less the US$750,000 per contract will be
procured under contracts awarded inaccordancewith the Government's establishedprocurement
proceduressatisfactory to the Association, inaccordance with the provisions ofparagraph2.63
and 2.64 ofthe Guidelines. Imports by the private sector, estimatedto cost less than

                                                                                                  43

 US$2,000,000 per contract, will be procuredunder contracts awarded inaccordance with
 publishedcommercial practices to the Association, inaccordance with the provisions o f
 paragraph 2.63 and 2.64 o f the Guidelines.

 117.     Consultancv Services. The Project will finance the contracting o f consultancy services
 under components A, B, and C, for an estimated total amount o f US$6.80 million equivalent.
 This will include studies, technical assistance, and training services. The standard Request for
 Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for appointment o f consultants as well as the
 Sample form of Evaluation Report for the Selection o f Consultants. Simplified contracts will be
 used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or
 individual consultants. To ensure that priority is given to the identificationo f suitable and
qualifiednational consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated at or less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent may be comprised entirely of national consultants (inaccordance withthe provisions
o fparagraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number o f qualified
individual or firms (at least three) are available. However, ifforeign firms have expressed
interest, they would not be excluded from consideration.


     0   Firms. Such services are expected to include: (i)  professional services for communities
         andlocal governments; and (ii) and audits for implementation o fkey economical
                                          studies
         reforms (including inthe forestry and telecommunications sector). All firms will be
         recruitedthrough Quality and Costs Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. For contracts
         estimated to cost less than US$50,000, firms may be recruitedthroughConsultant's
         Qualification (CQ) procedures.

    0    Individuals. Individuals will be recruited where a firm is not needed, for contracts, which
         are not expected to exceed US$50,000. Such individuals will be selected and recruited
         on the basis o f C V and references inaccordance with Part V o f the Consultants'
         Guidelines.

118.     Service agreements. The Project will finance operating costs o f the implementation
agencies for components A and B through service agreements between the Government and each
of these agencies. Inview ofthe nature o fthe activities to be undertaken, which require specific
qualification and local experience, and inview o f the lack o f alternative implementingpartners
with adequateexperience inCongo, these service agreements will be entered into under single-
source selection procedures (as per Consultants Guidelines, paragraph 3.9). Operating costs will
include: (a) expenditure for the contracting o f auxiliary personnel required for the
implementation o fthe project; (b) expenditure and supplies for the operation and maintenance o f
facilities required for the implementation o fthe project (such as expenditures for office supplies,
rental fees, services, operation and maintenance of equipment financed out o f the proceeds o fthe
Credit and the Grant); (c) expenditure for domestic andinternational travel and per diems related
to project implementationactivities; and (d) overheads. Operating costs for the implementation
agency for component C will also be financed under the Project. All procurement withinthis
category shall be done according to the procedures defined above for goods and services.

119.     Small Grants Agreements. Under Component B, the Project will finance small grants to
local organizations, for an estimated total amount o f US$2.30 million. These organizations will
include associations, NGOs, communities, cooperatives andprivate organizations working with

                                                                                               44

communities ineachof the ten dkpartements and four smaller municipalities. Beneficiaries will
be selected through transparent proceduresacceptableto IDA, to be detailed inthe Operational
Manual. They will enter into contractual arrangementswith the implementation agency
(UNDP), as per standarddocuments acceptableto IDA,to be detailed inthe Operational Manual.
Contractswill not exceedUS$20,000 per organization per year. They may includeprocurement
of works, goods, and services and will be executedby the beneficiaries, as per simplified
procurementprocedures acceptableto IDA,to be detailed inthe Operational Manual.

                      TableA: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                     (US$million equivalent)
                                                    Procurementmethods
      Expenditure Category             ICB               NCB           Other (2)       Total
                                                                                       cost
     1. Imports (under                 0.00               0.00           13.00         13.00
    Component D)                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (13.OO)      (13.00)
    2. Works                           0.00               6.00            2.60          8.60
                                      (0.00)            (6.00)           (2.60)        (8.60)
    3. Goods                           0.30               3.70            2.80          6.80
                                      (0.30)            (3.70)           (2.80)        (6.80)
    4. Services                        0.00               0.00            6.80          6.80
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)           (6.80)        (6.80)
    5. Community sub-                  0.00               0.00            2.30          2.30
    projects                          (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.30)        (2.30)
    6. Operating Costs                 0.00               0.00            0.50          0.50
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.50)        (0.50)
    7. Unallocated and                 n-a                 n-a            n-a           3.00
    contingencies                                                                     (3.00)
       Total                           0.30               9.70           28.00         41.00
                                      (0.30)            (9.70)          (28.00)       (41.OO)
I/Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to befinanced by theIDA Creditand Grant.All costs
include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through modiJied international competitive
bidding, national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to managing theproject.

Advertising

120.    Since a large portionof the Credit andthe Grant funds will beusedfor technical
assistance and consulting assignments, early attention will be given to advanceplanning of
recruitment and timely search for expressions of interest through international advertising to
obtain the best possible pool of candidatesfrom which strong short lists can be compiled. A
generalprocurement notice (GPN) will bepreparedand issued uponBoard Approval inthe
UnitedNations Development Business listing all contractsabove US$200,000 for consultants. It
will be updatedannually for any outstanding major procurement. Specific ProcurementNotices
(SPN) for works to be procured by QCBS will be advertised inthe national press of wide
distribution andinternationally. The related bidding documents, as applicable, will not be

                                                                                                  45

released-or the short list for consultant services will not be prepared -before eight weeks after
the GPN has beenpublished. Expressions o f interest for contracts to be procured under N C B
will be advertised inat least three nationalnewspapers of wide circulation and sufficient time
will be allowed to obtain biddocuments andto prepare bids.

IDA Review

121. Draft standard biddingdocuments for N C B will be reviewed and agreed upon with IDA
withinthe context of the finalization o fthe Operational Manuals, to be submittedas a condition
o f effectiveness.

122.    Prior Review. All ICB and all direct contracts for works and goods will be subject to
IDA'sprior review, inaccordance with paragraph 2, Appendix 1o fthe guidelines. Also, for
each procurementmethod (for works: quotations; for goods: national competitive bidding,
shopping; for services: QC,recruitment o f individual consultants), the first three contracts will
be subject to IDA's prior review.

123.    All consultingcontracts for costingUS$lOO,OOO equivalent or more for firms and
equivalent US$50,000 or more for individuals, the first three contracts under this threshold
would be subject to IDA prior review. Itwill concern the qualifications, experience, all terms o f
reference and terms o f employment o fthe consultants. Any amendments to existing contracts
raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds are subject to IDA
review. It would be also applied to all single-source selection o f consultants, including: Annual
training plans for local and overseas training and workshops, including terms o f reference and
estimated budgets, he program, containing names o f candidates, content o f courses, periods of
training, and selection o ftraining institutions. Prior review i s expected to amount to about 30
percent o f the total value o fthe works, goods, and services contracts through prior review.

124.    Post review. IDA will also review 15 percent o fthe total number o f contracts through
post-review. Inthe event samples ofpost reviews indicate major problems, additional reviews,
financed by the Borrower, should cover the remaining portion of contracts. The use o f IDA's
standardbiddingdocuments will considerably expedite the prior review process as IDA review
will primarilyfocus on invitations to bid, biddata sheets, contract data, technical specifications,
bill o fquantitieskhedule ofrequirement andother contract specific items. The implementation
agencies will be requiredto maintain all relevant procurement documentation for subsequent
review by IDA. The implementation agencies will submit to IDA periodic procurement
schedules detailing each procurement package inprogress and completed as part o f the normal
project reporting exercise.

OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:

125.    High.

                                                                                                  46

Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:

126.    There will beone procurementsupervisionmissionevery six months(includesspecial
procurementsupervisionfor post-review/audits). Staffwouldbetrainedunderthe Projectin
procurementplanning.

               Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review (1)
                           Contract Value                                     Contracts Subject to
 Expenditure Category         Threshold                Procurement               Prior Review
                           (US$thousand)                   Method                (US$million)
1. Works                       <200,000                     NCB                  All contracts
                                <50,000                 Quotations            Firstthree contracts
2. Goods                      >200,000                      ICB                  All contracts
                               <200,000                     NCB               Firstthree contracts
                               <50,000                      NSIIS             Firstthree contracts
3. Services
Firm:                         >100,000                      QCBS                 All contracts
                               <100,000                 QCBS, QC              Firstthree contracts
                                                       Single-source             All contracts
                                                                              (TORS,RFPs, final
                                                                            EvaluationReports and
                                                                             contract when deemed
                                                                             appropriate by IDA).

Individual:                    >50,000               See section V of            All contracts
                                                        Guidelines
                               <50,000               See section V of         Firstthree contracts
                                                        Guidelines
                 Estimatedtotal value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$13.10 million

                                                                                                47


                                          APPENDIXE.
                     FinancialManagementArrangements andAssessment


I)SummaryProjectDescription

Project Development Objective

127.   The objective of the Project is to support the recovery of communities living insmaller
municipalities andrural areas. Such support is criticalto help mitigate the ongoing social crisis
inthe target areas, to createopportunities for communities which are amongthe mostdestitute,
andto facilitate the continued implementation ofthe economic reform and decentralization
programs.

Project structure and costing

128.   The project comprises four componentsdetailedbelow:

   0   Component A: Financing ofpriority local investment (US$14 million)
   0   Component B: Support to community organizations (US$3 million)
   0   Component C: Capacity building for central and local Governments (US$8 million)
   0   Component D: Support to Balanceof Payments(US$13 million)

Implementing agency

129.   Three implementing agencies will be directly involvedinthe managementofthe project
funds namely the Project Coordination andImplementation Unitwithinthe Ministryof Finance
(PCIU), ACTED, andUNDP.

   0   ThePCIU (Agence de Gestion de Projet) has beencreatedwithin the Ministryof
       Finance. It will coordinate project implementation and directly managethe funds
       allocated under component C.


   0   ACTED is anNGO basedinParis, France and operating worldwide. Its consolidated
       turnover in2002 was US$25 million (US$21 million planned for 2003). The Financial,
       Accounting and Internal audit functions are located at the HQinParis. ACTED Congo
       Brazzaville was created in 1997 and is currently implementing about US$2 millionof
       projects per year for various donors. There is about 20 staff, off which 3 international
       deployed (with 2 inBrazzaville headquartersand one inN'kayes). ACTED will manage
       the funds allocated under componentA.


   0   UNDP establishedan office inBrazzaville inthe 1970s. It is mostly involvedincapacity
       building and community-driven development. It i s currently responsible for about 10
       projects -three o fwhich implementeddirectly (for a total o f US$6 million), and seven
       others implementedby technical ministries or NGOs. For all these activities, UNDP i s

                                                                                             48

        responsiblefor all disbursementand financial activities at large. UNDP will manage the
        funds allocated under component B.

11) Strengths andweaknesses

130.    UNDP is familiar with the procedures for quarterly FMRsandannual audits of IDA
financed-projects. ACTED and the PCIU are expectedto receive training inthe use of these
procedures.

131.    The following chart outlined the issues identifiedduring the FMS assessment andthe
correspondingremedial actions.

                     Issue                     Agency               Remedial action
    Accountants are not familiar with the      ACTED      Train staff on Bank's FMS
    Bank's FMSrequirements (reporting                     requirements.
    andmonitoring).
    Insufficient staffing of the Finance       ACTED      Recruit and train at least 2 new
    andAccounting Departmentto                            accounting staff along with a
    adequately manage incremental                         Financial Manager
    activities fundedthrough the Project.
    Insufficient IT equipment inthe            ACTED      Acquisitionof adequate additional
    Finance andAccounting Department                      IT equipments.
    to adequately manage incremental
    activities fundedthrough the Proiect.
    The same accountant drafts and signs       ACTED       Segregationof duties, with dual
    payment orderss, records transaction                   signature (by Coordinator and
    inthe cashbook, andinitiates                           Financial Manager) for any
    reconciliation.                                        payment.

    Use of different accounting software       UNDP       Move towards an integrated
    to manage andmonitor projects.                        software improvingMIS (planned
                                                          bv December 2003).

111) Staffing

132.    PCIU The PCIU at the Ministry of Finance should recruit andtrain staffinthe World
Bank financial managementand procurement procedures. The Finance section of the PCIUwill
comprise at least a Financial Manager and an Accountant with adequatequalifications and
experience to undertake their respective tasks. Recruitmento f a qualified Financial Manager
satisfactory to IDA i s a conditionof effectiveness

133.   ACTED. With regardto the component they will have to implementunder the project,
ACTED plans to deploy 1to 2 additional local financial staff to support managing accounting
systems andinternal control procedures. An international financial managementspecialist is
expectedtojoin the country team by July 2003. The recruitment of the international Financial
Management Specialist i s a condition of effectiveness.

                                                                                                49


 134.    UNDP. UNDP has demonstratedcapability to adjustto the guidelines andproceduresof
various donors, including IDA, and current accounting andfinancial managementpracticesare
satisfactory. For the purposes o f this project, UNDP is expectedto be able to deploy sufficient
additional resourceon time for implementation when necessary.

IV) Accountingpoliciesandprocedures

135.    The Ministryo f Finance will set up accounting andtracking arrangementsagreeableto
IDAat the PCIUto ensure that resourcesare committed andexpendedinaccordancewiththe
budgetaryprocedures. Inaddition the PCIU should adopt within3 months after effectiveness a
manual of financial and accounting procedures.

136.    ACTED adopteda manual of financial proceduresandestablishedadequateinternal
proceduresfor review and financing ofthe projects they are currently implementing worldwide,
butthis manualis still inEnglishlanguageandnot fully implementedat the Brazzaville office.
This manual will have to betranslated into French, adjusted, andimplementedby ACTED
Brazzaville.

137.    UNDP records regarding implementation ofthe ten projects they are currently
responsiblefor inCongo are satisfactory, and their practicesare based on UNDP operational
manual.

V) InternalControlandprocedures

138.    Internal audit system o f ACTED is inplace and i s basedon Frenchauditing standards.
The last internal audit of ACTED Brazzaville took place in 1999.

139.    Internal audits are conducted by UNDP headquartersbasedinNew York on arandom
basis. The last internal audit on the activities o fthe Brazzaville office took place in2000.

140.    The PCIU at the Ministryof Finance will designand implement an adequateinternal
control system under the responsibility of the Financial Manager.

VI) ExternalAudit

141.    The PCIUat the Ministry of Finance will beresponsiblefor organizing the annual audits
for the project. The annual financial statements, the movements inthe Special Account (for
component C) andthe Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) o f eachimplementation agency will
be auditedby anexternal auditor selected on terms ofreferences acceptableto IDA. The terms
of references for the external auditor will be developedimmediately after effectiveness and
submittedto the Bank for approval. The Auditor will express separate opinionon each
implementation agency involvedinthe project andthe report will be submittedto IDA within six
months after the end of eachfiscal year.

142.    ACTED activities are audited by an independentexternal auditor. The audit for 2001
activities was unqualified. The annual statementswill be audited by the auditor selectedby the

                                                                                               50

PCIUat the Ministry of Finance and on terms of references agreedupon by IDA. For the
purposes of audit, itwas agreedthat ACTED will retainthe original of invoices inBrazzaville.

143.    UNDP external audits are conductedby independentauditors for the various projectsthat
are implementedunder UNDP leadership, based on the donor requirements. Basedon the
agreementbetween IDA andUNDP, the Bank will exercise the option of asking for annual
audits of UNDP Brazzaville expendituresunder the Project. Financial statements are preparedin
Brazzaville, and the original vouchers and supporting documents are kept inBrazzaville, which
makes it possible to the auditor to audit Brazzaville expenses inthe field.

VII) Reportingand monitoring

144.    IDA'Srequirementsas regardssubmissionofquarterly Financial ManagementReports
(FMRs) will have to be agreeduponwith the PCIUat the Ministry ofFinancepriorto
effectiveness. The PCIUwill submit FMRs. IDA will provide further guidance to improve and
bringthese to a level acceptableto IDA.

145.    To date, monthly financial reportsregarding activities implementedby ACTED
Brazzaville are sent to ACTED Parisheadquarterfor review and approval, together with original
invoices. Itwas agreedthat ACTED will retain original invoices inBrazzaville and will submit
quarterly FMRs as requiredby IDA.

146.    UNDP Brazzaville office will have the responsibility to preparea Quarterly FMRina
format and time acceptableto IDA.

147.    Itwas agreedthat eachimplementation agency will commencepreparing and submitthe
first FMRs for the project following 45 days after the first complete (calendar) quarter after
effectiveness. Inaddition to monthlybank accountsreconciliation and quarterly FMRs, each
implementation agency will haveto draft annual financial statements comprising:

    0   Statemento f Sources and Uses of Funds
    0   Statementreconciling the balanceson all Banks Accounts to Bank balanceson the
        Statementof Sources andUses of Funds
    0   SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individualwithdrawal applications relating to
        disbursement by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
    0   A CashForecastfor the next two quarters
    0   Annex

VIII) InformationSystem

148.    The Financial Manager at the PCIUwill acquire an accounting software capable of
generatingaccurate and timely data andreporting as requiredby IDA. The software will have to
beoperational withinthree months after effectiveness.

149.    ACTED Accounting system is base on SAGA software that is able to manage projects
and subprojects separately. This software requires some adjustmentsto helpproducetimely and
accurate information for managing and monitoringproject activities.

                                                                                                 51


150.   Currently, eachproject implementedthrough UNDP is managedby a financial staff,
using four separatesoftware packages WINFOAS (Accounting), FIM( Finance), Procurement
(PMIS) andHumanResources(HRMS). UNDP is usedto monthly quarterly and annual
reporting mechanisms(including for the Bank). UNDP plansto implement a new integrated
system ERP by December 2003 aiming to improve MISthereby producing timely and accurate
financial informationthat satisfy the Bank requirements.

IX) Disbursementarrangements

151.   Disbursementsfor all expenditureswouldbe made againstfull documentation, except for
itemsofexpendituresfor: (a) contracts for works inanamount inferiorto US$200,000; (b)
contracts for equipment and goods inan amount inferior to US$lOO,OOO; (c) contracts for
consulting firms inan amount inferior to US$100,000 andcontracts for individualconsultantsin
an amount inferior to US$50,000 equivalent, as well as all operating costs, which would be
claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documentation for
SOEswould be retained at a suitable location at each implementation agency and readily
accessible for reviewby periodic IDA supervision missions andexternal auditors.

X) ActionPlan

152.   Inorderto mitigate the risks andweaknessesidentifiedduringthe assessment, the
following action planhas been developed.

  Issue                  Action/Tasks         Responsiblebody                Duedate
  ExternalAudit     Preparation o f TORSand  PCIU, with Bank non-    3 months after effectiveness
                    auditor selection        objection
  PCIU staffing     Recruit staff and        PCIU                    Byeffectiveness




                    Manager
                    Recruitment o f          PCIU, ACTED, and        3 months after effectiveness
                    additional accounting    UNDP
                    staff

                                                                                          52

  Reportingand    Agreement on FMRs' I     PCIUand World Bank    By effectiveness
  Monitoring      Annual Accounts'
                  format and content
  Accounting      Setting up accounting    PCIU                  Byeffectiveness
  systemI         and FMS arrangements
  nolicies


XI) Supervisionplan

153.    FinancialManagementReview will be carriedout by the FMS eachsemester andat least
once a year. Inaddition, the FMS will review the quarterly FMRs andthe annual audit report
andManagement Letter from the ExternalAuditor andfollow-up on implementationofmaterial
recommendations.

                                                                                             53

                       Project Financial Management Report (FMR)
                                      Quarterly Report


Financial Statements

     A        Sources and Uses of Funds (cash basis)
              Provides details on the sources of funds by financing source andthe use of funds
              by disbursementcategories.

     B        Uses of Fundsby Project Activities (cash basis)
              Provides details on the use of funds by project activities.

     C        Cash Withdrawal
              Provides the calculation for the eligible Bank disbursement

     D        CashForecast
              Provides forecast for cashrequirementfor the project, by disbursementcategories.

     E        Special Account Statement
              Summarizestransactionsconcerning the special account.

                                                                                                            54

                                                      APPENDIX F
                                                Performan Indicators
                                                            !
     NarrativeSummary              Key Performance                Monitoringand              Critical Assumptions
                                        Indicators                   Evaluation
Sector-related TSS Goal:

1. Consolidatingpeace         - Continued political         - Bank supervision mission    - Government's
process.                      stability and security        reports,                      commitment to economic
                              throughout the country.                                     reforms;
                                                            - Implementationagencies
                                                            quarterly reports;            - Gradual stabilization of
                                                                                          the sub-region;
2. Layingand solidifying      - Successful                  - Midtermreview by
the foundationfor the         decentralization reform;      December 2005;                - Substantial external
democratization of political                                                              support, inparticular for
life.                        - Development    of local      - ICR by June 2008;           debtrelief.
                              organizations and
                              strengthened social capital.  - Project database;


3. Physicalreconstruction    -                              - Beneficiaries surveys.
                                Increase incoverage and
o f the country.              quality of services delivery.


4. Improving economic        - Continued  good
management through           performance under the
increasedtransparency and    economic program
good governance in public    supported by the Bretton
resource management.         Woods Institutions;

                             -  Implementationof key
                             structural reforms.

ProjectDevelopment           (outcome/ impact               (projects reports)            (from Objectiveto Goal)
Objective:                    indicators)

1. Recoveryof                -  Increase by 20 percent of   - Community-level surveys     - Continuedpolitical
communities living in         quality and coverage of       to assess the impact on       stability and security
smaller municipalities and   essential services in          quality o f service delivery; throughout the country.
rural areas.                 Skpartementsand smaller
                             municipalities;                - Implementation agencies     - Continued  Government
                              -                             quarterly reports,            commitment to economic
                               Increased participationof    supervision missions and      reform.
                             :ommunities and                ICR,
                             stakeholdersinkey
                             rlecision-making process;      - Reviews   of the economic
                                                            programby Bank and IMF.
                               Satisfactory budgetary
                             xocesses at the central and
                             local levels.

                                                                                                         55




implementation of the        economic growth;
economic reform and
decentralization programs.   - Improvedenvironment for
                             economic activities aimed at
                             diversification.




ExpectedOutputsfor each            Output indicators:            Monitoringand            Critical Assumptions
         component:                                                 Evaluation               (from Outputs to
                                                                                                 0bjective)
ComponentA:
FinancingofPriority
LocalInvestments             - Effective implementation    - Bank supervision mission - Sufficient political
1. Helprelievethe            o f priority investments      reports,                    stability and security
economic and social          (objectives achieved for 80                               throughout the country for
hardship caused by the       percent o fthe sub-projects); - ACTED quarterly reports; mobilization of stakeholders
successivecrises in areas                                                              and implementation of
that have received little    - Generation of at least      - Midtermreview by          activities;
external support over the    10,000 person-month of        December 2005;
last years.                  labor;                                                    - CentralGovernment
                                                           - ICRby June 2008;          support in launching the
                                                                                       processwith local levels o f
                                                           - Surveys with beneficiary  Government;
                                                           communities.

2. Strengthening             - Quality o f participatory   - Surveys with communities  - Timely access to HIPC.

participatory mechanisms     processes; breadth o fthe     and key stakeholders at the
for decision-making at local consultations; involvement    level of each dkpartement
level.                       of key stakeholders inall     and smaller municipality.
                             dkpartements.
Component B:
Support To Community
Organizations

Help strengthen social       - Numberand diversity of      - Bank supervisionmission - Sufficient political
capital in"dkpartements" as  beneficiary organizations - reports,                      stability and security
a key element of a           over 50, representingat least                             throughout the country for
successful decentralization  8 o f the 10dkpartements;     - UNDP quarterly reports;   mobilization of beneficiary
and empowerment process.     - Effective use of resources                              organizations and
                             (80 percent of objectives set - Midterm review by         implementation of activities.
                             by the beneficiary            December 2005;
                             organizations intheir
                             proposals achieved).          - ICRby June 2008;
                             - Strengthening o f local
                             organizations capacity to     - Project database;
                             implementrehabilitation

                                                                                                      56

ExpectedOutputsfor each           Output indicators:           Monitoringand           Critical Assumptions
         component:                                              Evaluation             (from Outputs to
                                                                                             0bjective)
                             and employment generation   - Community-level surveys.
                             activities (over 50
                             organizations having
                             received substantial
                             training).
ComuonentC:
Capacityenhancement
For CentralAnd Local
Governments

Assistingthe Government      - Continuedperformance      - Bank and IMFreviews of - ContinuedGovernment
address some of the key      under the BrettonWoods      the economic program;      commitment to reform;
issues associatedwith the    Institutions-supported
process of decentralization  economic program;           - Bank supervision mission - Continued stability and
and economic reform.                                     reports,
                             - Preparation of an I-PRSP                             security inrural areas.

                             and PRSP;                   - PCIU quarterly reports;
                             - Fine-tuningand launchof   - Midterm review by
                             the public service reform;  December 2005;

                             - Launcho f forestry and    - ICRby June 2008.
                             telecommunications
                             reforms;

                             - Fine-tuneddefinition of
                             relations between central
                             and local Governments;

                             - Establishment o f sound
                             procedures indkpartements
                             and smaller municipalities
                             for budget preparation and
                             execution;

                             - Increaseby 20 percent
                            inaverageofcollection of
                            local fiscal revenuesby
                            deDartments.
ComuonentD:
Balanceof payments
support

Helpthe Government put in   - Establishment o f sound    - Bank supervision mission - Continued Government
place adequate mechanisms   procedures indkpartements    reports;                   commitment to reform;
for the transfer of fiscal  for budget preparation and
resources to local          execution;                   - PCIUquarterly reports;   - Continued stability and
collectivities -and for                                                             security inrural areas;

                                                                                        57

ExpectedOutputsfor each      Outputindicators:         Monitoringand       CriticalAssumptions
                                                          Evaluation        (fromOutputsto
                                                                                Objective)
monitoringtheir effective -Establishmentsofregular - Midtermreviewby
use.                      auditmechanismsofbudget December2005;         - Timely accessto HIPC.
                          executionindepartments.
                                                   - ICRby June 2008.

                                                             58

                       APPENDIX G.
    Status and BankGroup Operationsinthe Republicof Congo




5.33
0.03
41284
258.3
418,193,7%@
258,320,837.94

51,s
0.03
51,848,85458

                                                                                                                                         59

                                                      APPENDMH.
                                                  Countryat a Glance




                                    Congo, Rep. at a glance                                                                  9/23/02

                                                                   Sub
  POVERTYand SDCIAL                                    congo,    Saharan       Low-
                                                           Rep.   Africa     Income     Developmentdiamond"
                                                                                      I
  2001
  Population.mid-year(millionsj                              3 1     674       2,511
  GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                        700                                        Lile expectancy
                                                                     470         430
  GNI (Atlas M h o d , US$billions)                          2 2     317       1,069
  Avorngoannual growlh,199+01
  Population(%)                                             2 9      2 5         1 9
  Laborforce (%J                                            2 9      2 6         2 3
  Mod rocolrtodlmato (atod year avallnblo,199501)                                                            ,/          enrollment
  Poverly (% ofpopulatanhiow nafJona/pover(yhne)             70
  Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                    73       32          31
  Life expectancyat bidh (yaarsJ                             49       47          59
  infant modality (per 1,OW Irvabirths/                      81       91          76
  Child malnutntion(% ofchildrenunder5J                      16                              Access to improvedwatersource
  Accessto an improvedwater source(% OfpopulatunJ            46       55          76
  Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age f5+J                         40       37          37
  Gross pnmaryenrollment (% ofschool-agapopulafJonJ          79       70          96
      Male                                                   82       85         103            -Congo,Rep
                                                                                                       Low-mcomegmup
      Female                                                 76       72          88

  KEY ECONOMICRATIOSnnd LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                I981      1991     2000        2001
  GDP (US$billions)                               2 0                                   Emnomic ratios.
                                                            2 7      3 2         2.8
  Gross domesticinvestmenUGD?                    48 2      20 5     21 0       2 7 2  I
  Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP               58 0      45 1     78 6       79 7                        Trade
  Gross domesticsavingslGDP                      30 1      1 8 6    60 7       59 2
  Gross national savingslGDP                     24 5       2 2     29 0       31 0
  Currentaccount balance/GDP                    -26 7     -18 7      7 9
  interestpaymentslGDP                            4 8       1 8      6 5         i:     Domestic                    -! Investment
  Total debt/GDP                                 75 1    1773      1733       ,g50      savings
  Total debt sewice/exDoris                      20 5      25 7     23 6       21 9
  Presentvalue of debVGDP                                          142 3                                     1
  Presentvalue 01debtlexports                                      181 9
                                                                                                        Indebtedness
                                       198141 1991-01     2000     zoo1     2001-05
  (averageanwd growth)
  GDP                                      1 8   -01        8 2      2 9         4 0                    COnpO, Rap
  GDP per capda                           -1 1   -3 0       5 5      0 2         1 9                     LowJneome gmup
  Exporls 01goods and s " e S             3 4     6 2       9 1     -13          2 3


                                                                                                                                    I
  STRUCTUREdthoECONOMY
                                                1981      1991     2000        2001
  (% of GDPJ                                                                            Growthof investmentand GDP &)

  Agriculture                                     7 9      113       5 3         6.0
  Industry                                       50 9      3 6 0    70 9       6 4 5
    Manufaduring                                  6 3       8 9      3 4         4 5
  Services                                       41 2      526      2 3 8      2 9 5
  Privateconsumption                             56 5      604      2 8 2      2 9 5
  Generalgovemment consumption                   13 4      21 0     11 1       11 3
  Imports01goodsand sewices                      76 1      4 7 0    3 8 9      4 7 7                      GDi      -GDP             I
                                              1981-91 1991-01      zoo0        2001
  (averageannualgroMhJ                                                                  Growthofawporlsand imports p/.)             I
  Agriculture                                     2 9       1 9      8 4         4 1
  Industry                                        4 0       2 7      4 4         0 6
    Manufaduring                                  5 1      - 1 6    2 0 9        9 1
  Services                                        0 1      - 5 0    1 4 9        5 1
  Privateconsumption                              2 3       0 8     3 7 6        8 3
  Generalgovemment consumption                    1 6      - 8 2     2 8         2 8
  Gross domesticinvestment                      -16 5      1 7 8   -124         - 1 0
  Importsof goods and sewices                    -6 5      1 1 7    1 7 3        2 1

~~

  Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
 * The diamondsshowfour keyindicatorsinthe country(inbold)comparedwith itsincome-groupaverage if data are missing,the diamond wlll
     be incomplete

                                                                                                                                                   60




PRICESand QOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                1981        1991         2000        2001
Dmesflcprices
(% change)                                                                                      50
Consumer pricas                                  1 7 0        9 2          0 4         -0 5
Implicit GDP deflator                            27 8        -1 5         46 1       -14.6      25

Governmed finance                                                                                 D
(% of GDP, includes c u m M granrs)                                                                      96     P I    3     09
Current revenue                                              25 5         26 7        33 0      26
Current budget balance                                     -10 9           8 2        11 2
Overall surpluddefiut                                      -13 1                             I
                                                                           1 2          1 0                    GDPdeflsbr   - 9 - W           I

TRADE
                                                1981        1991         2000        2001
(US$millions)                                                                                    Export and import IweIs (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                        1,137         2.456      2,181
  CNde 011                                                   878         2,300      2,030
  Wood                                                       141           144         139
  Manufadures                                                 26            12          12      2oW

Total imports (ut)                                           549         1,139      1,153
  Food                                                        31            23          24      IMO
  Fuel and energy                                            196           229         237
  Capital goods                                              180           525         496         0

Exporl pnca index(1995=1W)                                   120           164         153
Import price index (fQ05=100)                                 93           111         109
Terms of trade (1095=fOO)                                    130           148         141

BALANCEdPAYMENTS
                                                1981       I991          2000        2001
(US$millions)                                                                                    Cumnlacmunl basncelo GDP(Yo)
Exports of goods and services                  1,157      1,228          2,518      2,303       m
Imports of goods and serwcas                   1,517      1.280          1,334      1,367
Resource balance                                -360         -52         1,184        936         O

Net inwme                                       -112        -446         -947        -834       m
Net currenttransfers                             -60         -10            19           3
Current account balance                                                                         4 D
                                                -532        -508          256          105
Finanang #ems(net)                               595         463           -73       -249       40
Changes in net reserves                          -63          45         -183          144      80
Msmo
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           128           8          222           85
Converaon rate (DEC. localUS$)                 271 7      282 1          7100       732 5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                I981       1991          2000        2001
(US$millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           1,498      4,832         5,596      5,461
  IBRD                                            42         165            26          19
  IDA                                             37          75                                                   A 1 9 0:n2
                                                                          234         232    I               F 555

Total debt sewice                                241         300          460         691
  IBRD                                             4           7            16           9
  IDA                                              0           0             3           3
Compostion of net resource flows
  Offiual grants                                                             8           4
  Offiaal creditors                               91          28             4          29
  Private creditors                              147       -195          -153        -162
  Foreign dired investment                                                340         160
  Portfolio equity                                                                                                E:4,265
Woild Bank program
  Commitments                                      0           0             0          43      A-IBRD                         E . 0ilateral
  Disbursements                                   19           1             0          38      0 . IDA    D Other mlblateral
                                                                                                             .                 F - ptlvate
  Pnncipal repayments                              1           2             3          54      C-IMF                          G Shorl.leim
                                                                                                                                   .        -
  Net flows                                       17           1            -3         -16
  Interest payments                                3           5             2          26
  Net transfers                                  14           -6            -5         -42

The World Bank Group This table wasprepared by country unit staff, figuresmay differ from other World Bank pubinsheddata               9123102

                                   61


                    APPENDIX I.
                      Map

To be completed.


