                                Document of
                             The World Bank


                                                    Report No: ICR00001089




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-37980; IDA-H0530)

                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.3 MILLION
                       (US$28 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  AND A

                                  GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.5 MILLION
                       (US$13 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                  FOR AN

        EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT PROJECT




                                June 26, 2009




Water and Urban II
Country Department AFCC2
Africa Region

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2008)

                               Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                            CFA Franc 1.00 = US$0.0021853
                              US$1.00 = CFA Franc 457.61

                                     FISCAL YEAR

                                 January 1 ­ December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACTED Agency for Technical Cooperation and Development
DFA    Development Financing Agreement
CFAF   CFA Franc
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GNP    Gross National Product
HIPC   Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA    International Development Association
IMF    International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP interim PRSP
ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E    monitoring and evaluation
MTR    mid-term review
n.a.   not applicable
NGO    nongovernmental organization
OP     Operational Policy
OPCS   Operational Policy and Country Services
PDO    Project Development Objective
PCIU   Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
PRGF   Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PURAC Projet d'Urgence de Relance et d'Appui aux Communautés
       ­ Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project
PURICV Projet d'Urgence de Réhabilitation des Infrastructures et d'Amélioration du Cadre de Vie
       ­ Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
QEA    Quality at Entry Assessment
TOR    Terms of Reference
TSS    Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP   United Nations Development Programme


                            Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                         Country Director: Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
                           Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro
                      Project Team Leader: Mahine Diop
                        ICR Team Leader: Christian Eghoff

                                         Republic of Congo
             Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project



                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design......................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.....................................................3
3. Assessment of Outcomes...................................................................................................8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...............................................................12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................................13
6. Lessons Learned ..............................................................................................................14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.................................................................................16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ........................................................................................17
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis........................................................................21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...................22
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results..................................................................................25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .........................................................26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR............................27
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..............................36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.............................................................................43
Annex 10 (Supplemental Annex). Performance Indicators from the Technical Annex......44

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Rep of Congo
                                                                       Emergency Recovery
Country:                Congo, Republic of      Project Name:
                                                                       and Community
                                                                       Support Project
                                                                       IDA-37980,IDA-
Project ID:             P081924                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       H0530,TF-52882
ICR Date:               06/27/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                       CONGO
Original Total
                        XDR 29.8M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 27.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
DRC MINISTRY OF FINANCE
UCEP
UNDP
ACTED
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/15/2003     Effectiveness:                           09/16/2003
Appraisal:             05/05/2003     Restructuring(s):                        12/11/2007
Approval:              06/24/2003     Mid-term Review:      03/01/2006         11/13/2006
                                      Closing:              12/31/2007         12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:             Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing           Moderately Satisfactory



                                               i

                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory  Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                    Quality at Entry      Moderately
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):                Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                     33
General education sector                                          30                 10
General public administration sector                                                 44
General transportation sector                                                         8
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector             40
Health                                                            30                  5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction              100                25
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                                            20
Decentralization                                                                     15
Other rural development                                                              15
Participation and civic engagement                                                   25


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Eustacius N. Betubiza               Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:           Eustache Ouayoro                    Cadman Atta Mills
Project Team Leader:      Mahine Diop                         Xavier Devictor
ICR Team Leader:          Christian Vang Eghoff
ICR Primary Author:       Christian Vang Eghoff




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To assist the Borrower in its efforts to accelerate its economic recovery so as to improve
living conditions for the Borrower#s population in small municipalities and rural
communities across the Borrower#s territory.
  This statement of the PDO differs in substance from the statement of the PDO in the
Technical Annex, which was: #To assist the recovery of communities living in smaller
municipalities and rural areas#, as the latter does not specifically include the broader
aspect of economic recovery. The phrasing from the Development Financing Agreement
is maintained for the purposes of this ICR for two reasons: First, the DFA is the legally
binding agreement between the Bank and the Borrower. Second, the DFA version better
encompasses the outcome of the capacity enhancement and balance of payment support
financed by the project.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from          Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target         Completion or
                                              documents)           Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percentage of activities undertaken to rehabilitate community infrastructure
                under Component A of the Project carried out with sustainable results.

Value           No baseline (no

quantitative or Component A subprojects    80%                                  78%
Qualitative)    were carried out before
                the project)
Date achieved 06/24/2003                   12/31/2007                           12/31/2008

Comments        Target achieved with a 2 percent shortfall.

(incl. %        A total of 107 subprojects were implemented out of 115 subprojects approved

achievement)    for a completion rate of 93 percent. This is a slight correction to the indicator
                value (91 percent) reported in the last ISR.

Indicator 2 :   Number of departments and municipalities in which community subprojects have
                been carried out under Component B of the Project.
Value           0 (no Component B
quantitative or subprojects were carried   8 departments and                    10 departments and

Qualitative)    out before the project)    3 municipalities                     3 municipalities

Date achieved 06/24/2003                   12/31/2007                           12/31/2008

Comments        125% achievement for departments and 100% achievement for municipalities.

(incl. %        The project succeeded in implementing community subprojects in all 10

achievement)    departments, three of six municipalities, and all 90 Districts. The three major
                municipalities did not benefit.

Indicator 3 :   Percentage of community subprojects carried out under Component B of the
                Project rated by the Borrower as having satisfactorily achieved their stated


                                                iii

               objectives.
Value           0 (No Component B
quantitative or subprojects were carried 80%                                 75%
Qualitative)    out before the project)
Date achieved 06/24/2003                   12/31/2007                        12/31/2008

Comments        5% points below target value or 94% achievement (75%/80%). The number

(incl. %        reported in the last ISR (90%) refers quantitatively to completed subprojects

achievement)    (190) compared to approved subprojects (212) and does not fully cover
                qualitative aspect of objectives.
                Economic management benchmarks related to: (a) macroeconomic framework;
Indicator 4 :  (b) PRSP; (c) increase in the amount of fiscal revenues collected in departments
               and in municipalities, excl. Brazzaville and PN

                                           ((1) A                            (1) Framework in

                                           macroeconomic                     place, IMF PRGF;

                                           framework                         (2) I-PRSP adopted

                (1) Macroeconomic          deemed                            in September 2004,

                framework not deemed       satisfactory by the               full PRSP adopted

Value           satisfactory;              Association is in                 in April 2008;

quantitative or (2) No PRSP;               place;                            (3) Collected

Qualitative)    (3) 0% (no increase noted (2) PRSP adopted;                  municipal revenues

                before the project).       (3) Collected                     increased by 31%

                                           annual fiscal                     between 2003 and

                                           revenues increase                 2006. No data is

                                           by 20%.                           available for
                                                                             departments.

Date achieved 06/24/2003                   12/31/2007                        12/31/2008
Comments        Three sub-indicators fully achieved except for revenue generation in
(incl. %        departments, for which no information is available. PRGF is in place since
achievement)    December 2008, based on sound macroeconomic management.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Generation of at least 10,000 person-months of employment.
Value           0 (employment was only
(quantitative   generated by the project 10,000                              18,000
or Qualitative) after effectiveness)
Date achieved 06/24/2003                   12/31/2007                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        180 percent achievement
achievement)




                                                 iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP               Disbursements
                                                                     (USD millions)
 1    12/31/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     14.89
 2    06/30/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     15.60
 3    06/30/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     25.84
 4    12/22/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     27.30
 5    05/31/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     30.83
 6    11/17/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     31.39
 7    05/17/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     33.08

 8    06/28/2007   Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately
                                              Unsatisfactory                    34.10

 9    11/16/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              35.00
10    04/15/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              37.24
11    10/15/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              38.41
12    12/24/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     39.34



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at   Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP     in USD
                                            millions
                                                        Extension of project closing

  12/11/2007        N        MS      MS        35.00    date to ensure full
                                                        implementation of Component
                                                        C activities.




                                          v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of project appraisal in 2003, Congo was in the process of consolidating peace
after three rounds of violent conflicts between 1993 and 1999. At the height of the crisis,
approximately 810,000 people (almost one third of the population) were displaced and
the social fabric of the country was severely damaged.
Reconciliation efforts were showing results. A new constitution was adopted in 2002 and
peaceful presidential, legislative, and senatorial elections were held in 2002.
Decentralization was launched with the creation of 10 departments and 6 municipalities
and election of local governments. In March of 2003 a peace accord was initiated
between the government and the last rebel group, creating hope that the conflict trap
could be broken.
Social and economic infrastructure had suffered from both fighting and prolonged lack of
maintenance. The road network had broken down, isolating large parts of the population.
Primary education attendance dropped from 90 percent in 1990 to 40 percent in 2000. It
was estimated that 50 percent of agricultural tools and 75 percent of livestock had been
lost. Local governments did not have revenues and management capacity commensurate
with their new responsibilities, in particular for service delivery.
Years of conflicts had crumbled the economy. GNP per capita declined from $1,300 in
1982 to $630 in 2000. Unemployment was estimated to be close to 50 percent and
approximately 70 percent of the population was living below the poverty line. Life
expectancy had declined from 52 years in the early 1990s to 48.6 years in 2002. Public
external debt had accumulated and amounted to 196 percent of GDP in 2001 while
domestic debt was about 30 percent of GDP in 2000. Debt service amounted to 68.1
percent of government revenues in 2002.
The end of the war coincided with timid but real improvement in the economy. Annual
economic growth reached 4.1 percent in 2002 and inflation was curbed to 3.4 percent.
Reconstruction needs were huge but efforts to speed up delivery of services and provide
peace dividends to the population were hampered by institutional weaknesses and lack of
technical capacities in the civil service and the local private sector. Mismanagement of
the country's abundant oil resources in the post-conflict context further held up recovery
efforts.
Government Response
The government's recovery program was conceived in the context of the preparation of
an interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). The ambitious program included
reforms in areas of economic governance, public finance management, poverty reduction,
transparency, financial sector reform, forestry, and normalizing relations with creditors.
Implementation was encouraging, although vested interests remained solidly entrenched.
The decentralization program was a remedy to the over-centralization of the past and
aimed at improving service delivery at the local level and empowering communities.
International Response
The international community was re-engaging with Congo and shifting focus from
humanitarian aid to development-oriented programs. The main donors were involved in a
variety of infrastructure rehabilitation, community development, and capacity building
programs. However, assistance focused on Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, the two most
important urban centers.




                                               1

World Bank Response
The Bank had reengaged with Congo through the 2001-2003 Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS). Two of the main elements of this strategy were a $37.5 million Post-
Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit and a $7 million Transparency and Governance
Capacity Building Project. The Bank's 2004-2005 TSS aimed at strengthening support to
Congo by: (1) Supporting job creation through economic growth and diversification of
the economy, (2) helping reposition the public sector and mitigating short- and medium-
term risks to the social environment, and (3) assisting in increasing resources for peace
and development. The Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project (Projet
d'Urgence de Relance et d'Appui aux Communautés ­ PURAC) was an integral element
of this strategy. It complemented the Bank-financed Emergency Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project (Projet d'Urgence de
Réhabilitation des Infrastructures et d'Amélioration du Cadre de Vie ­ PURICV), which
focused on reconstruction in Brazzaville and rehabilitating major interurban transport
infrastructure.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO was stated in the Development Financing Agreement (DFA) as: "To assist the
Borrower in its efforts to accelerate its economic recovery so as to improve living
conditions for the Borrower's population in small municipalities and rural communities
across the Borrower's territory."1

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Large sections of the rural population and those living in smaller urban centers were the
main project beneficiaries. They would get access to some of the most needed small- and
medium-scale socio-economic infrastructure and services through a participatory and
demand-driven approach. It was expected that financing of small-scale revenue-
generating activities and use of labor-intensive construction methods would provide
resources to the communities, develop competencies to support their developmental
efforts, and create short term employment, all of which would contribute to consolidating
peace.
The country as a whole would benefit from: (1) Support to the decentralization process,
which was expected to strengthen political inclusiveness and contribute to reconstructing
the country's social fabric, (2) support to the broader reform program and its contribution
to gradual economic stabilization, and (3) support to addressing the negative balance of
payments.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component A: Financing of Priority Local Investments
(Appraisal: $14 million. Actual: $14.02 million)

This component aimed at relieving the economic and social hardship caused by the
conflicts in areas that had received little external support over the preceding years.
Activities under the component would facilitate the establishment of a participatory
mechanism for communities to select investment priorities at the district and department


1See Datasheet for a discussion of differences between PDO statement in the Technical Annex and the DFA.



                                                       2

level, fostering local governance. The process included the allocation of financial
resources to each department to finance subprojects, with investments not to exceed
$200,000. A positive list of eligible investments was defined and included rehabilitation
or construction of a broad array of social, economic, and environmental infrastructure.
The component would be implemented by ACTED, an international NGO.
Component B: Support to Community Organizations
(Appraisal: $3 million. Actual: $2.29 million)

The objective of this component was to support small-scale local initiatives (not to
exceed $20,000) and strengthen social capital as a key element of a successful
decentralization and empowerment process. The component would finance: (1) Activities
selected and initiated by local NGOs and associations, with focus on revenue generating
activities, and (2) programs to enhance technical and managerial capacity of these
organizations. The implementing agency for this component was UNDP.
Component C: Capacity Enhancement Support
(Appraisal: $8 million. Actual: $10.40 million)

This component aimed at complementing existing programs and addressing some of the
issues associated with the decentralization process and economic reform. The project
would particularly assist in improving economic management and transparency in the
newly-created departments and municipalities and provide the government with technical
assistance and institutional strengthening in support of its reform program on public
service, forestry, and posts and telecommunications. Support was also dedicated to the
preparation of the country's PRSP. The Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
(PCIU) would implement this component and assure overall project coordination and
reporting.
Component D: Balance of Payments Support
(Appraisal: $13 million. Actual: $14.02 million)

The objective of Component D was to help the government put in place adequate
mechanisms for the transfer of fiscal resources from the central government to the local
governments and for monitoring their effective use. Activities under this component were
to complement activities under Component C by providing funding to help finance
critical imports needed for the effective delivery of basic social services by local
governments. The component was to be implemented by the Ministry of Finance.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The project closing date was extended from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008 to
ensure full implementation of all Component C activities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation
The project was prepared in response to calls by the government and other stakeholders
for the Bank to help expand the reach of reconstruction activities to areas outside
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, creating a strong rationale for the Bank's intervention.
Preparation drew on the economic dialogue supported by the Post-Conflict Economic
Rehabilitation Credit, the Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project and
the IMF Staff Monitored Program. It took less than six months to prepare the operation


                                                 3

within the framework of the TSS. The Borrower was very active and committed during
project preparation, agreeing to use delegated contract management to implement project
components. This approach was innovative at the time as it had only recently been
introduced through the Bank-financed PURICV.
Design

The PDO was relevant, largely targeting project benefits at the most needy sections of the
population, which were excluded from existing programs. Earlier lulls in the conflicts had
been followed by renewed fighting. By ensuring inclusiveness of the recovery program
and addressing the widespread poverty, unemployment, physical isolation, and lack of
access to infrastructure and basic services, the project aimed at minimizing the prospects
of renewed conflicts. Over-centralization of the state-managed economy and its poor
management was among the deep-rooted causes of the repeated conflicts, and these were
among the issues that the project was to address.
While complex to implement because of the post-conflict environment, the various
components provided a logic set of complementary interventions. Components A and B
supported needed investments, revenue generation, and strengthening of social capital.
Components C and D aimed at supporting economic reforms and the decentralization
process to accompany and stabilize the recovery effort.
The project was designed to flexibly respond to the evolving needs of the post-conflict
context. Component A was to be implemented in two phases, with the first batch of
subprojects to be approved at project outset and the second batch to be approved 18
months after effectiveness, based on lessons learned from the first phase. Component B
was designed to be demand-driven, targeting the most urgent needs of beneficiaries at the
local level. For Component C, needs were to be identified by the government throughout
the implementation period based on a list of priority areas, assuring that capacity
constraints were addressed as they emerged.
Beneficiary participation in selection of investment priorities and implementation of
activities was a strong design factor. For Component A, priorities would be set by the
communities at the district level and validated by the newly elected departmental
assemblies, supporting their empowerment. For Component B, an outreach program
would facilitate submission of subproject proposals by local NGOs and associations and
provide training to support their implementation.
Component D complemented other project activities. Given the economic situation of the
country, the balance of payments support was a relevant response. The positive list of
imports (see Annex 2: Outputs by Component) included items essential to support the
recovery of the economy. The fast disbursing component would make additional foreign
exchange available, permitting the continuation of key recovery programs, otherwise
likely to be affected by fiscal constraints. At appraisal, counterpart funding generated
from private sector imports was expected to be used to support the transfer of resources
to local governments, in line with the component objective of assisting the government in
setting up adequate mechanisms for the transfer of fiscal resources to local governments
and for monitoring their effective use. However, the component was not designed to
include concrete actions to support the setting in place of such mechanism.
The background analysis highlighted a number of risks to be addressed in the project, but
there were some weaknesses in the analysis and implementation arrangements:
-       Assessment of the implementation capacity of ACTED and UNDP
(Components A and B) was not comprehensive enough considering the geographic
spread of the activities. Moreover, while ACTED's multiple roles in mobilizing
communities and being at the same time executing agency for Component A and



                                               4

supervisor of the same activities contributed to speeding up implementation in a low
capacity environment, this arrangement also created a potential situation of conflict of
interest.

-       The risk to sustainability of Component B subprojects due to weak capacity of
local NGOs and associations was supposed to be mitigated through managerial and
technical capacity building activities and inclusion of micro-project eligibility criteria
related to complexity and commitment to operation and maintenance.

-       Difficulties on the path to reform and a compromised administrative capacity for
implementation were identified as risks. It was however unrealistic to assume that the
decentralization process could take place in such a short period of time considering the
complexity of undertaking decentralization reforms. It was also unrealistic to implement
a functional revenue collection system at the local level, capable of assuring a revenue
stream commensurate with the responsibilities of the new local government entities in the
post-conflict context.
Quality at Entry
The project had a relevant PDO, built on a sound assessment of needs, and components
were designed to flexibly address the most urgent needs in a participatory manner.
However, there were significant shortcomings in the analysis of implementation capacity,
risk assessment, and design of Component D. In particular, Component D was designed
as a balance of payment support and thus did not include activities that could deliver the
results outlined in the Technical Annex, which included mechanisms for fiscal transfers
to departments and communities to be in place and financed by public resources after
project completion. These issues were also picked up in the Quality at Entry Assessment
by QAG, which assessed quality at entry as moderately unsatisfactory. This rating is
confirmed by this ICR.

2.2 Implementation

Apart from the balance of payments component, implementation of the project initially
turned out to be challenging. Component D was disbursed in one tranche in November
2003.
Implementation of Components A and B was hampered by the geographic spread of
subprojects and the lack of passable roads, combined with minor flaws in the
implementation setup. This resulted in: (1) Difficulties in providing information
regarding the project to the population and raising awareness on the project's
participatory approach, which was counterintuitive in a country where top-down
approaches had been the norm. Launching activities was further complicated by low
beneficiary capacity to develop realistic project proposals. (2) High travel cost and long
transport time for UNDP and ACTED staff, all based in Brazzaville. The geographic
spread of activities complicated supervision activities and as a result little support was
provided to the local technical departments in preparing their investments under
Component A. Partial decentralization of ACTED supervision activities in 2006
improved the situation but did not fully resolve the problem. (3) Complicated supply to
sites and difficulty in supervising the works were compounded by low technical and
financial capacity of construction companies. (4) The importance placed on the speed of
project implementation and the lack of experience of ACTED in some types of public
works (roads and civil engineering works) resulted in some technical studies having to be
redone to include works, which were not initially included.
These difficulties were eventually overcome due to continued efforts by the
implementing agencies. A trust fund also supported the implementation of Component B


                                              5

activities.2 The PCIU and the government made efforts to finance additional works and
equipment for some of the facilities to make them fully functional (e.g. mosquito nets in
health facilities, water points in schools). In spite of delays, activities under Component B
were finalized by 2006 and works under Component A were finalized by 2007, as
planned. While the results are largely sustainable, the time left until project closure could
have been used to strengthen the capacities of local NGOs and associations and further
enhance project outcomes, which was not the case.
The mid-term review (MTR) in November 2006 was used to highlight delays in
implementing reforms, and project ratings were subsequently downgraded. Finalization
of requests for proposals for studies under Component C was delayed due to the focus on
emergency measures, low capacity, and high turnover in government (e.g. four
successive ministers in charge of posts and telecommunications had to oversee the reform
program). This resulted in difficulties by some beneficiary administrations to draft
satisfactory terms of reference. Comments on draft studies were provided with long
delays from beneficiaries, further prolonging the total time to finalize studies. The PCIU
was actively pursuing the matter, but was unable to speed up the process to any
significant extent, in part due to the lack of commitment and limited beneficiary capacity.
The MTR was also used to address some of the shortcomings in the M&E framework
(see discussion in Section 2.3 below); with an effort being made to collect baseline data
and assure that the PCIU had the necessary resources to implement the M&E framework.
A technical audit was carried out in June 2007. The quality of works was judged globally
satisfactory and it was recommended that recruitment of staff in schools and health
centers financed by the project be coordinated at central level. This recommendation was
not implemented since no inter-ministerial coordination was set in place. However, local
communities have succeeded in recruiting almost all needed personnel.
The project extension was requested by the Borrower to ensure the implementation of
activities under Component C. As a result, many studies have been finalized and the
resulting action plans are available for implementation by the respective ministries.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
The M&E framework had several design flaws, specified below. Most importantly, the
project lacked a defined methodology to implement the M&E framework, which would
work in the post-conflict environment. Furthermore, several indicators were vaguely
defined and related to process rather than results (see Annex 10 of the ICR for Technical
Annex Indicators). For Component C, only one out of seven indicators was defined in
quantifiable and measurable terms. However, the subset of indicators in the DFA were in
fact well suited to measure achievement of the PDO and capture the demand-driven
aspect of Components A and B, while Component C indicators of the DFA captured the
economic recovery process.
It could fairly be assumed that beneficiaries would select the most needed investments for
Components A and B based on the participatory approach used by the project. The
Component A indicator appropriately focused on sustainability of investments, as this
was the major concern beyond relevance. One Component B indicator focused on the


2 The trust fund tied to the project (JSDF; TF-52882; $708,400 original amount; $606,789 disbursed)
financed activities in support of Component B: strengthening the capacity of community-based
organizations to effectively address the needs of the vulnerable groups they serve. The TF was closed on
April 30, 2007. A separate Completion Report is available for the TF, dated June 2007, and the Grant
Reporting and Monitoring completion activity was approved by August 31, 2007.


                                                    6

geographic coverage of the project, a major objective as the project aimed to reach a large
section of the population. The other Component B indicator measured achievement of
component outcome against the beneficiaries' own definition of subproject objectives and
this was highly relevant to the demand-driven nature of the project. The indicators for
Component C were relevant to capture the broad coverage of activities under the
component. Except for Component C, these indicators fulfill the SMART indicator
criteria (specific, measurable, attributable, realistic, and time-bound). Improvements in
the quality of the macro-economic framework (indicator for Component C) could not be
fully attributed to the limited interventions of the PURAC.
One of the weaknesses of the design of the M&E framework was that there was no
defined methodology to measure sustainability, progress against the stated objectives of
sub-projects, and quality of the macroeconomic framework for Component A, B, and C
indicators respectively. Moreover, there was a disconnect between the Component D
balance of payments support (financing investments) and its stated objective of putting in
place mechanisms for the transfer of resources to local governments and the indicators in
the Technical Annex related to budget management in departments. This component
exclusively financed imports and yet was to be evaluated against progress in establishing
sound procedures for budget preparation and auditing, according to the Technical Annex.
Implementation
The lack of M&E methodology posed problems. To address the shortcomings, a
consultant was initially hired by the PCIU to carry out an M&E study, which in the end
proved too complex to implement due to the large number of indicators combined with
the lack of reliable data in Congo. Faced with this issue, the MTR suggested a more
pragmatic approach with simple questionnaires based on a limited number of indicators,
which could be administered to all project sites in spite of the geographic dispersion. This
way, the before and after project situation was established and project performance could
be measured.
Utilization
M&E data was only collected and evaluated systematically from the time of the MTR,
when most activities had already been prepared or implemented. Therefore, most of the
outcome-related studies carried out have solely served the purpose of providing data for
the ICR and have not been used to inform decision-making and resource allocation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard compliance. The project was rated Category B because it did not entail major
adverse environmental impacts. In accordance with emergency lending policies (OP 8.50
- Emergency Recovery Assistance), the safeguard documentation was to be prepared
during implementation, and no later than six months after credit effectiveness. An
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment was carried out and project activities have
not resulted in any resettlement or loss of economic activity.
Fiduciary compliance. The project complied with Bank fiduciary safeguards. A case of
false certification of delivery of goods was revealed under Component A and the
government has reimbursed the corresponding amount ($86,000). Regular financial
management and post procurement reviews did not reveal any other irregularities.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Post-completion operation of project outputs is largely assured, although some concerns
related to maintenance funds and planning capacity remain, and some studies financed
under Component C remain unutilized.



                                               7

Schools and health facilities financed by the project have most of the personnel they need
to operate and 85 maintenance staff are involved in the regular maintenance of the 15
markets financed under Component A. Maintenance of roads is complicated by the
unclear division of responsibility between the Road Fund and the decentralized entities.
Activities financed under Component B should in principle be self-sustaining, given that
88 percent of investments went into productive activities. However, as discussed in the
Datasheet, some difficulties were encountered to sustain a small number of activities.
A follow-up operation is under preparation under the current Country Partnership
Strategy and this project will address the capacity of local governments to finance and
manage the delivery of services and look at how the participatory approach developed
under the project can be streamlined into the decentralization process.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

PURAC development objectives remain relevant to the current development priorities of
Congo. Although GDP at constant prices almost doubled from 2002 to 2008, poverty in
peri-urban and rural areas remains high at 67.4 and 64.8 percent respectively and the
project objective of improving living conditions continues to be relevant. Strengthened
fiscal discipline and debt management as supported by the project has played a key role
in Congo's recovery.
At the policy level, the current 2008 PRSP has five pillars, four of which were supported
by the PURAC: (1) Consolidation of peace, security and good governance. This was
promoted in the project via the reintegration of previously isolated areas and the support
to decentralization and broad economic reforms. (2) Advancement of growth and
macroeconomic stability. This has been supported by the PURAC through the
Component C capacity enhancement support and the Component B revenue-generating
activities. (3) Improved access to basic social services was supported through the social
and economic infrastructure constructed under Component A. (4) Improvement of the
social environment and integration of vulnerable groups was supported through the
participatory approach to selecting investments, prioritizing revenue-generation activities
for women, and the overall efforts to rebuild the social fabric of the country. Only pillar
(5) fighting HIV/AIDS was not supported by the project.
The design of the project included support to the household survey, which informed the
PRSP and was a key element in the process. The participatory approach was another
strong design factor, as this approach remains relevant and is being generalized by the
government through other programs. There were some shortcomings in the design of
Component A and B activities in terms of mitigating lack of capacity of local
governments and community organizations to assure sustainability of investments and the
M&E implementation arrangements to follow up on this issue, just as the lack of clarity
on Component D objectives counts against the project.
The gradual selection of Component C capacity building activities during implementation
assured the project's continued relevance to support the country's economic recovery and
growth. This component was able to support elements critical to Congo reaching its HIPC
decision point in March 2006. Throughout the project lifetime, the Pool region, the area
of the last active rebel group, has received relatively more support, thus contributing to
promoting peace in that area and therefore in the country.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PURAC essentially achieved the two elements of its objective: improving living
conditions for the targeted population and accelerating economic recovery. In spite of an


                                              8

especially difficult implementation environment, the project was able to produce results
that impacted 40 percent of the population in some way (those living outside the main
urban centers), and to jump-start economic activities to the benefit of the population. This
was achieved through: (1) reinforcing the decentralization process and stimulating a
participatory development process, (2) providing access to services and infrastructure, (3)
creating temporary jobs, (4) revitalizing under-developed economic activities, (5)
instilling a culture of transparency and respect of contractual obligations, and (6)
consolidating peace. The achievements are further underscored by the fact that the project
was able to contribute substantially to four of the five pillars of the current PRSP.
The objectives of the project were essentially achieved, with only minor shortcomings, as
measured through the project outcome indicators and detailed in the Datasheet. The
indicator for Component A was met and the two indicators related to Component B were
met with few shortcomings on the number of subprojects having achieved their stated
objectives. The indicator for Component C was met, except for the revenue generated in
departments. The contribution of Component D to the achievement of the PDO has been
estimated as satisfactory by evaluating its contribution to the balance of payments and the
overall fiscal situation.
Improved Living Conditions
The main indicators used to measure progress in improved living conditions have been
met with minor shortcomings. The percentage of activities undertaken to rehabilitate
community infrastructure under Component A of the project carried out with sustainable
results largely achieved the target of 80 percent. Component B covered ten departments
against the eight foreseen at appraisal, but the 75 percent of Component B subprojects
having reached their stated objectives presents a slight shortfall of the target of 80
percent.
Component A subprojects were mainly in education (40 percent), rural roads (26
percent), and health (19 percent). Other projects covered markets and public lighting.
-Education. Investments in school infrastructure contributed to improving schooling
conditions for 39,000 primary school pupils, corresponding to 12 percent of all pupils
outside of Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. Enrollment increased by 42 percent in the
rehabilitated schools, while the number of teachers increased by 17 percent. While there
is no data on the resulting quality of education in the targeted schools (which will need
more time to measure than the duration of this project), 86 percent of respondents in a
beneficiary satisfaction survey estimated that the project activities had a positive impact
on school outcomes.
-Health. The PURAC reached 15 percent of integrated health centers outside of
Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, increasing the number of assisted births by 36 percent and
the total number of hospital beds by 51 percent.
-Roads. The rehabilitation of 17 rural roads over a total length of 563 kilometers has
improved access for 189 previously isolated villages with a total population of 91,000.
-Markets. The construction of 15 markets and market extensions in six departments
provided an additional 2,430 covered points of sale.
-Public lighting. The electrification of four towns benefits 74,601 people.
Component B benefited 190 community organizations in all 90 districts and 10
departments of the country, against a target of 8 departments. Productive investments
made up 88 percent of total financing. The activities initiated under the component
created a total of 4,839 permanent jobs (67 percent for women) and training was provided
to 1,325 persons in general management competence and specific investment-related




                                               9

technical skills. More than 75 percent of beneficiaries have judged the impact of the
component as positive.
Economic Recovery
The 18,000 person-months of work generated by the project (against an appraisal target
of 10,000 months) had an immediate effect on economic recovery at the local level.
Component C studies and technical assistance have contributed to strengthening and
sustaining the reform agenda in all key areas of the economy: oil, forests, posts and
telecommunications, and financial governance. The PURAC covered five socio-
economic sectors, eight ministries, twelve national administrations, and five public
companies.
The 10 legal and regulatory documents related to the decentralization process, prepared
with the assistance of the PURAC, fill the regulatory gap in relation to fiscal and budget
aspects for local governments. The texts have not yet been promulgated. An evaluation of
public finance management identified the capacity building needs and was the basis for
development of a training and capacity building program for the Local Government
Administration. The training given to 488 local government officials and the
strengthening of the regulatory framework contributed to improved budget management
processes and raising municipal revenues by 31 percent against a target of 20 percent.
The selectivity and focus of studies financed by the PURAC have helped reshape the
regulatory environment and improve the conditions for private sector participation in the
economy as follows: (1) The study on certification of forestry revenue laid the
foundations for transferring revenue collection from the Ministry of Forest Economy to
the Treasury, allowing for a better traceability and management of forestry revenues. (2)
The reform of the legal and regulatory framework in the posts and telecommunications
sector was made possible by the project. The package of legislation is in the final stage of
adoption by parliament, fulfilling one of the HIPC triggers. (3) Taxes on
telecommunications activities were reviewed, and an integral plan for the development of
the postal sector was prepared. (4) A number of strategic reform options have been
delineated for the Société des Postes du Congo, which the government has not yet
implemented. (5) Subsequent to the sector-wide audit, the insurance sector has been
reorganized and the regulatory framework updated to approach conformity with the Inter-
African Conference on Insurance Markets. (6) The internal debt has been reduced
significantly, enhancing the private sector's confidence in the government to adhere to
principles of transparent management of public resources. The plan to clear arrears
financed by the PURAC and support to implementing it has resulted in reduction of
outstanding debt from $280 million in 2004 to $57 million in 2008, with $92 million
repaid and the rest cancelled after a transparent settlement process.
The above results have contributed to Congo reaching its HIPC decision point in 2006,
significantly reducing external debt. A contributing factor to this result was the
government's use of the project to implement, with its own funds, three activities related
to HIPC triggers: (1) Technical and financial audit of investments and transfers on the
national budget for 2006. (2) Diagnostic study on a marketing strategy for crude oil by
the Société Nationale de Pétrole du Congo. (3) Audit of the procedures for attribution of
an oil concession (Marine XI). After reaching the HIPC decision point, public external
debt has been reduced to 169 percent of public revenues at the end of 2007, compared to
661 percent in 2004. At the time of this ICR, it was projected to fall further to 94.5
percent at the end of 2008.

Component D had an immediate impact on improving the overall fiscal situation. The
current account balance improved by $19.8 million (from -11.6 million to 8.2 million) in


                                             10

the fourth quarter of 2003, when the balance of payment support was disbursed. The
balance of payment support further allowed Congo to cope with financing needs over the
2004-2006 period, as the support contributed to the government's efforts to regain
credibility with donors and negotiate and adhere to debt clearance plans with each donor.
Overall Development Effort

The household survey co-financed by the PURAC, UNDP, and the government provided
the first comprehensive understanding of the level and determinants of poverty in the
country, and was essential for the preparation of the PRSP. The household survey
continues to be the point of reference for the current system of monitoring and evaluation
of poverty in Congo.
The project heralded a new participatory approach to programming and investment,
which gave credibility to the embryonic decentralization process and resulted in the
population regaining some measure of confidence in the state. The participation of
beneficiaries was also highlighted as a noteworthy achievement in the government's
comments on the draft ICR. Needs were identified at the local level through a pioneering
participatory approach and investment priorities decided in district assembly meetings
open to the civil society. Proposals were in turn approved in special sessions of the
departmental councils with the participation of an average of 89 percent of elected
representatives. These results could have been strengthened further if the project had
included activities to deliver on the stated objective of putting in place mechanisms for
the transfer of fiscal resources to local governments.

3.3 Efficiency

The project was prepared under OP 8.50 - Emergency Recovery Assistance and no
economic evaluation was carried out at appraisal. A comprehensive economic analysis is
excluded by the small size and diverse nature of subprojects combined with the many
unquantifiable benefits from these activities and the lack of complete data and
comparative unit costs from similar locations. As an alternative to an economic analysis,
the ICR quantifies efficiency in terms of: (1) time taken to implement activities and (2)
geographic coverage.
Time-efficiency. Components D, A, and B were completed on time in 2003, 2006, and
2007 respectively, showing highly efficient project implementation from a time
perspective. This was especially important given the project's emergency nature. In
contrast, a few Component C activities were not fully implemented in spite of the one
year project extension requested by the government, resulting in time-efficiency being
evaluated as satisfactory overall.
Coverage-efficiency. With an investment of only $41 million, the project succeeded in
implementing activities in all 90 districts, exceeding appraisal expectations. The project
impacted the lives of the population living outside of the main urban centers and created
renewed visibility of the state. The parts of the population not directly benefiting from
project-financed activities still gained from the project's contribution to accelerating
economic recovery and preventing eruptions of new violence. Coverage-efficiency is
rated satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating is based on: (1) Achievement of three out of four outcome
indicators with minor shortcomings for Components B and C. This in itself warrants a
satisfactory rating, also supported by the evidence of the many benefits accruing to the
population in general and the ability of the project to quickly deliver results at a critical



                                              11

time. (2) The shortcomings in Component D design did not prevent the component from
delivering relevant results. (3) The continued relevance of the project substantiates a
satisfactory rating. (4) The project efficiency is rated as satisfactory, also strengthening
the argument for a satisfactory rating. (5) The shortcomings in project design and M&E
framework count against the project, but some corrective measures were taken during
implementation and the impact of these shortcomings has been limited in comparison
with the many demonstrated achievements of the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

During the implementation period, the PURAC was the only government program of
significance covering the whole country in the education and health sectors and in
community support. It has taken long for peace to stabilize following the signing of the
2003 peace accord between the government and the last active rebel group in the Pool
region, and disarmament of this group only began in February 2009. The Pool region
received comparatively more financing under Component A, and although the progress
towards peace cannot be attributed solely to the PURAC, the project was certainly a
contributing factor.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development)

Non-transparent procurement was a major problem in Congo following years of conflict
and sole sourcing was the only method used. Building on the positive experience of the
Bank-financed PURICV, contracts were enforced and penalties amounting to $188,000
were applied to contractors due to delays in delivering works on some of the roads. The
introduction of open procurement has resulted in improved transparency of the
procurement process and capacity of local enterprises to bid on contracts and is slowly
being generalized in Congo with the support of the donor community, which has since
supported the preparation and adoption of a new modern procurement code.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There were no other unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The beneficiary survey showed that more than 75 percent of respondents are satisfied
with project results, which has contributed substantially to improving the quality of life.
Other findings of the beneficiary survey have been mentioned above.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The evidence shows that investments under Component A are largely sustainable with the
exception of roads, which accounted for only 8 percent of total project investments.
However, discussions are ongoing on the establishment of a Road Fund to cover
maintenance costs. The majority of Component B activities continue to operate several
years after support to the community organizations has ended, although some difficulties
in sustaining activities have been observed. The activities under Component C are being
consolidated or continued under other Bank-financed operations. Risk to Component D is
not rated but current risks to macroeconomic stability are minimized by a prudent fiscal
policy in response to a projected decline in oil revenue.3 The above analysis supports a
risk rating of moderate.

3See: "Republic of Congo Economic Report. Spring 2009. World Bank, AFTP3.



                                               12

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The Bank responded with flexibility to government requests for a large-scale and broad-
ranging reconstruction support. The PURAC was an integral part of this effort, as the
Bank was strongly involved in discussion with all stakeholders (government, civil
society, political parties, etc.) during the preparation of the 2003 TSS.
Appraisal was essentially focused on strategic relevance and setting in place the
mechanisms to deliver solutions to the identified problems under Components A, B, and
C. Component D was relevant, as also highlighted by the QAE. There was a strong
background analysis and poverty focus, building on the Bank's experience and
reengagement portfolio in Congo. The PURAC was prepared in six months as an
emergency operation and so could not be expected to fully address sustainability issues.
However, the implementation design had significant flaws in terms of analysis of
implementation capacity, assessment of risks, developing an operational M&E
framework and methodology to guide project implementation, and defining mechanisms
for transfer of resources to local governments in the longer term, as otherwise stated in
the Technical Annex. The Bank did not fulfill its role in supporting the Borrower in these
aspects.
(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank had regular supervision missions and supported the PCIU in the preparation of
TORs. Fiduciary issues were dealt with appropriately. Up until the MTR, there was no
evidence in the project files that the Bank was following up on development impact and
achievement of project objectives, as no M&E data was available from the PCIU. It is
therefore difficult to see how the initial ratings for DO were evaluated for the ISRs.
Following the MTR, the supervision efforts became more focused. The Bank increased
its dialogue with the PCIU and followed up on the shortcomings in the M&E framework
and implementation of the reforms supported by the capacity building activities. This was
central to addressing some of the shortcomings in project design, specifically concerning
the M&E framework, along with the beneficiary assessment which allowed a number of
lessons to be drawn from the project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Combining the two ratings, the overall rating for Bank performance is between
moderately satisfactory and moderately unsatisfactory. In this case, according to the ICR
guidelines (OPCS, August 2006, last updated on April 16, 2007), the outcome rating in
the satisfactory range is the deciding factor in rating the overall Bank performance, also
taking into account enhanced supervision since MTR, including support to the client to
address most of the design flaws.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The government was actively involved in project preparation and quickly undertook the
necessary measures to set in place the project unit. The government was also quick to
mobilize additional funds to finance auxiliary works and equipment ($864,000 worth of



                                               13

mosquito nets, water posts in schools, and various other equipment) for Component A
subprojects and it reimbursed the ineligible expenditures.
There has been slow but steady progress on the reforms coming out of the studies, and
the government made good use of the project by implementing activities related to HIPC
triggers with its own funds. On the negative side, the government was not able to adopt
the decentralization reforms before the end of the project, even though this was the
reason for the requested project extension.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Implementing     Performance
Agency
Component A Moderately satisfactory. ACTED was active in disseminating the participatory
ACTED           approach but could have had more presence on the ground which would have
                facilitated follow-up and resolution of technical issues.
Component B Moderately satisfactory. UNDP was able to support the community organizations
UNDP            in the selection of activities, but did not have the required presence in the field to
                follow up and fully assure sustainability of project activities. This is partly
                explained by the large geographic spread of activities.
Component C Satisfactory. The PCIU assisted the beneficiary organizations in the preparation
(and overall    of TORs for studies and leading the work of the various steering committees, but
coordination)   could not be responsible for the delays in adoption of study recommendations.

PCIU            The financial audits and quarterly project reports were produced and transmitted
                on time. The PCIU also supported Component A and B implementing agencies in
                terms of tax exemption for suppliers and contractors, but lacked the personnel to
                fully follow up on the delegated contract management arrangements for ACTED
                and UNDP. The efficiency and relevance of the PCIU is underscored by its
                continued operation, managing HIPC funds for the government.
Component D Moderately unsatisfactory. The ministry was able to implement Component D
Ministry of     and disburse the balance of payment support. However, the ministry has not
Finance         provided any evidence of the effects of the funds directly related to the project
                objective, partly because the M&E framework was not fully functional. The
                ministry has not made progress on implementing decentralization reforms.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall rating for Borrower performance is derived by combining the two moderately
satisfactory ratings for government and implementing agencies.

6. Lessons Learned

A weak project environment calls for a powerful champion to assure progress on
implementing reforms. A project implemented in a weak institutional environment
needs a powerful champion in the administrative and political apparatus if far reaching
reforms addressing multi-sectoral needs have to be implemented. There was a window of
opportunity at the end of the conflicts for launching some critical reforms, and the project
successfully laid the groundwork for a number of improvements to the institutional
environment. However, the PCIU did not have the means to facilitate the dialogue and
complete the reform process. An inter-ministerial committee regrouping all the involved
ministries, and presided by e.g. the Prime Minister, could have advanced adoption of the
reforms and their implementation. The delays in implementing decentralization reforms
also show that reforms should be implemented incrementally and in well defined phases.




                                                 14

The post-conflict environment can be used to create conditions for inclusiveness and
build a solid base for private sector participation in the reconstruction efforts and
for launching reforms. The PURAC worked on two levels: (1) Delivering benefits
directly to the population and creating confidence in the ability of the state to deliver
security and improve living conditions. (2) Laying the groundwork for increased private
sector participation in reconstruction efforts and in the economy more generally while
strengthening the macro-economic framework. These two components together provided
the base for a steady rebuilding of the social fabric of the country.
Gradual mainstreaming of project activities into initially weak sector ministries is
necessary to assure sustainability. Local governments and community organizations
were the final recipients of Components A and B outputs and the direct interlocutors of
the implementing agencies, while the sector ministries lacked capacity, especially at the
outset of the project, and continued to be regarded as simple structures of technical
support during implementation. Ensuring sustainability of activities requires gradual
mainstreaming of project activities into sector ministries, as they will have to play a more
prominent role in implementing and operating these services in the future. This approach
is even more crucial in a post-conflict environment when all the state institutions are
short of capacity and resources and when the rebuilding of the credibility of these
institutions is imperative.
M&E is often overlooked in emergency projects. The project was confronted with the
difficult exercise of developing an M&E framework to address sustainability and
demand-based needs in a post-conflict environment. OP 8.50 ­ Emergency Recovery
Assistance allowed the PURAC to prepare a coherent set of interventions in only six
months, but with more focus on the physical reconstruction effort than on monitoring
impact. Lack of baseline data is another difficulty that teams have to tackle when a
country's statistical system is not operational. The use of surveys to capture the views of
the population before, during and after the project is one way to overcome these
difficulties. Following the MTR, most of the weaknesses in the M&E framework were
corrected, but proactive restructuring of projects with inadequate M&E systems is
another option that should be kept in mind.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The draft ICR was translated into French and comments were received from ACTED,
UNDP, and the government (see Annexes 7 and 8). ACTED's comments have been fully
incorporated in the text. In its comments, UNDP agrees with the evaluation in the ICR.
The only government's comment that warrants specific treatment is the mention of
mismanagement of oil resources in the context section. The government finds this
evaluation excessive and has pointed out that progress has been made in that regard. The
ICR has maintained this position, since the situation described in the ICR was the one
prevailing at the time of appraisal.
(b) Cofinanciers

There were no cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The comments received from ACTED, the international NGO implementing Component
A, have been included in sub-section (a) above. Conclusions from the beneficiary survey
have been incorporated in the evaluation of project outcomes and do not warrant further
elaboration.


                                             15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                       Appraisal
                                                      Actual
                                       Estimate                Percentage of
             Components                                (US$
                                        (US$                    Appraisal
                                                     millions)
                                       millions)

FINANCING OF PRIORITY LOCAL
                                        14.00         14.02       100.16
INVESTMENTS

SUPPORT TO COMMUNITY
                                         3.00          2.29       76.25
ORGANIZATIONS

CAPACITY ENHANCEMENT FOR
CENTRAL AND LOCAL                        8.00         10.40       130.01
GOVERNMENTS

BALANCE OF PAYMENT SUPPORT              13.00         14.02       107.87

                  Total Baseline Cost   38.00         40.73       107.20

Physical Contingencies                   0.50          0.00        0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.50          0.00        0.00

Unallocated                              2.50          0.00        0.00

            Total Financing Required    41.00         40.73       99.35

(b) Financing


                                       Appraisal
                                                      Actual
                            Type of    Estimate                Percentage of
    Source of Funds                                    (US$
                         Cofinancing    (US$                    Appraisal
                                                     millions)
                                       millions)

Borrower                                 0.00          0.00        0.00

IDA                           n.a.      28.00         26.71       95.40

IDA Grant for post-
                              n.a.      13.00         14.02       107.86
conflict




                                      16

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Financing of Priority Local Investments

Cost: Appraisal: $13.00 million. Actual: $14.02 million.
34.4 percent of actual total project cost.
Education
·   77 classrooms constructed.
·   92 classrooms rehabilitated.
·   31 residences for school directors constructed.
·   194 latrines constructed in schools.
·   44 water points constructed in schools.
·   484 classrooms equipped with furniture.
·   14,138 tables with benches provided.

Health
·   12 integrated health centers constructed.
·   9 health centers rehabilitated.
·   1 hospital rehabilitated.
·   13 residences constructed for doctors.
·   109 latrines constructed in health centers.
·   23 water points installed.
·   800 beds provided.
·   600 mosquito nets distributed.

Rural roads
·   17 rural roads rehabilitated (563 kilometers total), including treatment of critical
    points.
·   94 crossings constructed (bridges, culverts).
·   2 landing docks for river transport.

Public lighting
·   4 villages electrified with 23 kilometers of cable and 343 light posts.

Markets
·   15 markets constructed or extended, for a total of 2,430 market stalls.
·   20 storage facilities constructed.
·   60 latrines constructed in markets.


Component B: Support to Community Organizations

Cost: Appraisal: $3.00 million. Actual: $2.29 million.
5.6 percent of actual total project cost.
Training for community organizations
·   41 training sessions held.
·   1,325 persons trained.


                                             17

190 Micro-projects implemented in the following sectors:
·  Agriculture and market gardening: 69.
·  Animal and poultry farming: 52.
·  Fish pond farming: 18.
·  Access to water: 10.
·  Fishing: 9.
·  Small-scale industrial processing: 9.
·  Construction of boats: 6.
·  Small access roads and drainage: 4.
·  Markets and storage: 4.
·  Education: 3.
·  Health: 2.
·  Support to micro-credit: 1.
·  Beekeeping: 1.
·  Communal park: 1.
·  Electricity generation: 1.


Component C: Capacity Enhancement Support

Cost: Appraisal: $8.00 million. Actual: $10.40 million
25.5 percent of actual total project cost.
Poverty Reduction Strategy
·  Household survey (60 percent IDA financing), with the government and the UNDP,
   feeding into the PRSP process.

General economic management and public sector reform
·  Audit of the General Tax Directorate to define and set in place a plan to evaluate
   revenues.
·  Audit of the performance of the Customs Department to evaluate and reduce evasion
   of customs and fiscal revenue.
·  Audit of the Treasury and the Debt Department to evaluate fiduciary risks and
   possible improvements.
·  Inventory of real estate property of the national electricity and water utilities (Société
   Nationale d'Electricité and Société Nationale de Distribution d'Eau) and study on
   debt settlement of the water utility, as basis for restructuring the two utilities.

Decentralization
·  Study on local financial management to identify training needs.
·  Finalization of 10 legislative and regulatory documents pertaining to decentralization.
·  Development of three training modules for local governments (financial resource
   management, budget cycle, and process and norms for budget preparation and
   accounting).
·  Printing of 500 training manuals.
·  Training of 18 trainers of trainers.



                                             18

·  Training of 488 local government officials involved in budget and fiscal management.
·  Equipment for the Local Government Administration to assure minimum capacity for
   preparing legal and regulatory documents.

Forestry Sector
·  Verification of forestry income.
·  Organizational audit of the forestry administration and preparation of organizational
   layout based on the findings.
·  Training of 71 forestry and water agents in cartography, photo interpretation, timber
   identification, forest mensuration, and botany.

Posts and telecommunications
·  Support to revision of the legal and regulatory framework.
·  Preparation of draft statutes on posts and telecommunications.
·  Preparation of draft law on the Posts and Telecommunications Regulatory Agency.
·  Study on taxation of telecommunications.
·  Study on strategic options for the Postal Company of Congo (Société de Postes du
   Congo).

Domestic Debt
·  Support to operationalizing the action plan for paying off domestic debt, including
   inventory of existing debt obligations, recruitment of a negotiator and recruiting of a
   commercial bank to handle payments.
·  Audit of pension funds for public and private employees (Caisse de Retraite des
   Fonctionnaires and Caisse Nationale de Sécurité Sociale), to lay the analytical
   foundations for a reform of these institutions.
·  Support to carrying out two studies financed by the state: (1) Technical and financial
   audit of a sample of investment expenditures and transfers for 2006, which feed into
   an action plan for management of public investments, currently being finalized. (2)
   Operational audit of the National Petrol Refining Company (Congolaise de
   Raffinage), which brought to light major dysfunctions and facilitated the setting in
   place of restructuring program of the company, being implemented at the time of
   project closure.

Insurance Sector
·  Financial and accounting audit of Insurance and Reinsurance Company of Congo
   (Assurances et Réassurances du Congo), appraising the company's assets.
·  Insurance sector audit, leading to finalization of 7 documents to improve the legal and
   regulatory framework, 4 of which have been adopted.
·  National Insurance Administration audit (Direction Nationale des Assurances), being
   finalized at the time of project closure.


Component D: Balance of Payment Support

Cost: Appraisal: $13.00 million. Actual: $14.02 million
34.4 percent of actual total project cost.
The positive list of imports:



                                            19

· Agricultural equipment and inputs, including fertilizer and excluding pesticides and
  insecticides.
· Petroleum and fuel products.
· Construction materials.
· Transport vehicles and spare parts.
· Livestock, animal products, and veterinary supplies.
· School supplies and equipment.
· Medical supplies and equipment.
· Construction equipment, industrial machinery, and spare parts.
· Electrical equipment, machinery, and parts.




                                         20

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

No economic or financial analysis was carried out at appraisal. An economic evaluation
of markets was attempted, but the consultant hired by the PCIU was unable to gather
sufficient information to make the exercise meaningful.
As noted in the main text, a comprehensive economic analysis is excluded by the small
size and diverse nature of subprojects combined with the many unquantifiable benefits
from these activities and the lack of complete data and comparative unit costs from
similar locations.
As an alternative, the ICR quantifies efficiency in terms of time taken to implement
activities and geographic coverage. The full text of this evaluation can be found in the
main text.




                                             21

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                            Responsibility
         Names                    Title             Unit          /
                                                               Specialty

Lending
Xavier Devictor       Senior Country Officer     AFC09      TTL

Alassane Diawara      Country Manager            AFC09

                                                 Not
Jacques Bure          Consultant
                                                 available

                                                 Not
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi      Lead Counsel
                                                 available

                                                 Not
Albert Osei           Consultant
                                                 available

                                                 Not
Mwelu Ndeti           Consultant
                                                 available

Marie-Chantal
                      Operations Analyst         AFC09
Uwanyiligira

Monique Piette        Program Assistant          AFC09

Renée Desclaux        Finance Officer            LOAG1

                                                 Not
Abdoul Adji           Consultant
                                                 available

                      Financial Management
Jean-Charles Kra                                 AFC09
                      Specialist

Henri Aka             Procurement Specialist     AFTPC

Luc Lapointe          Procurement Specialist     AFTPC




                                    22

Supervision/ICR
Xavier Devictor         Country Program Coordinator   MNCA3      TTL

Maurice Adoni           Procurement Specialist        AFTPC

Jerome Bezzina          Regulatory Economist          CITPO

Nadege J. X. Marthe
                        Executive Assistant           AFMCG
Bicoumou

Monthe Bienvenu Biyoudi Economist                     AFTP3

Jacques Bure            Sr Highway Engineer          ECSSD

                        Sr Financial Management
Alain Jean Catalan                                    AFTFM
                        Specia

                        Sr Financial Management
Nestor Coffi                                          AFTFM
                        Specia

Bourama Diaite          Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPC

Mahine Diop             Senior Municipal Engineer     AFTU2      TTL

                                                                 ICR team
Christian Vang Eghoff   Operations Officer            AFCF1
                                                                 leader

Mbaye Mbengue Faye      Consultant                    AFTEN

Jean Charles Amon Kra   Country Officer               AFCRI

Paul Jonathan Martin    Sr Environmental Spec.        AFTEN

Pierre Morin            Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPC

Gaspy Gedeon Muanda     E T Consultant                AFTFM

Mamadou Sevede          Consultant                    AFTWR

Giuseppe Topa           Lead Specialist               AFTEN

Marie-Chantal
                        Senior Country Officer       AFCCD
Uwanyiligira

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                           US$ Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)

Lending
  FY03                                     1                      5.68
  FY04                                     5                     34.91
                       Total:              6                     40.59

Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                     0                      0.00
  FY04                                    17                    109.76
  FY05                                    24                    110.06
  FY06                                    21                     91.72
  FY07                                    19                     62.02


                                       23

FY08                21    44.63
FY09                13    47.82
        Total:     115    466.01




                  24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The results of the beneficiary satisfaction survey are incorporated in the main text of the
ICR.




                                             25

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was carried out, in accordance with ICR Guidelines for a core
ICR (OPCS, August 2006, last updated on April 16, 2007).




                                          26

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(a) Summary in English of the Borrower's ICR
Context at Project Preparation
1.      The Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project (PURAC), was
prepared at a time when the Republic of Congo was emerging from a decade of armed
conflicts and political unrest, and significant progress had been noticed in the
reconciliation efforts. The government, building on newly established institutions,
launched an important program of economic reforms supported by the Bretton Woods
institutions. It had launched large-scale structural reforms based upon economic
governance, management of public expenses, poverty alleviation, transparency, the
financial sector, and public or state-owned enterprises. In addition to these, the
government had also initiated a huge program of decentralization with the setting up of
ten (10) departments/regions and six (6) municipalities split into local administrative
areas governed by council members elected by popular vote and with extended
responsibilities in several economic and social sectors.
2.      In response to the Congolese government's efforts, the World Bank in particular
supported, in the framework of the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), the funding of
various emergency activities such as: (i) the Post-conflict Economic Recovery Credit; (ii)
the Emergency Project of Demobilization and Reinsertion of Ex-combatants; (iii) the
Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project; and (iv) the Emergency
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Living Conditions Improvement Project.
3.      However, aid from the international community was targeted to the Brazzaville
and Pointe Noire regions. It was imperative to launch activities that would make it
possible for the whole country to benefit from the impact of the reforms and to help turn
political and economic stability into sustainable peace and economic recovery.
Project Objectives
4.      As defined in the Financing Agreement, the project's development objective was
to help the government of the Republic of Congo speed up the country's economic
recovery so as to improve living standards in both rural communities and small
municipalities throughout the territory.
5.      Specific objectives/goals for the four components were presented as follows:
        Component A - Financing of priority local investments: To rehabilitate
        community infrastructures at the level of departments/regions, municipalities, and
        villages, using labor intensive works to provide jobs to marginal groups such as
        ex-combatants, youth and women.
        Component B - Support to community organizations: (i) To provide beneficiary
        communities with micro­financing in order to support the implementation of
        capacity building activities of organizations located in communities, with the
        choice of development priorities to be made at the level of these communities.
        Another objective of this component was to design and implement community
        subprojects that aim at alleviating poverty at the local level, and to build the
        operational and management capacities of communities thanks to the provision of
        services of relevant and adapted technical counseling, in order to ensure that
        decentralization was sustainable and that local communities were given the
        opportunity to self-govern.



                                              27

        Component C - Capacity Enhancement Support: To build the capacities of
        economic management of services of the government of the Republic of Congo
        both at the central level and at decentralized levels thanks to the provision of
        relevant and appropriate technical assistance.
        Component D - Balance of Payments Support: To help the government of the
        Republic of Congo set up relevant mechanisms for the transfer of budgetary
        resources to local administrative areas and the follow-up of their use.
Achievement of project objectives and outcome
6.      Comprehensive assessment of the achievement of objectives. The project's results
are satisfactory and, to a large extent, the objectives were achieved. The general
population, the civil society organizations and local communities were fully involved in
the participatory approaches used to identify community priorities according to well
defined criteria. These approaches, new in the country, were highly appreciated.
Throughout the implementation period, the project was virtually the only large-scale
government program that covered the education, health, and community support sectors
over the entire national territory. In several areas totally abandoned during the conflict,
the project was viewed as a real return of the state to those areas. The project has notably
enabled the improvement of access to social services on the entire national territory,
particularly in the fields of education and health.
7.      The granting of micro grants to 190 basic community organizations shared out
among 90 districts and 10 departments, for the achievement of 190 micro projects of
diverse nature (agriculture, farming, fish farming, poultry farming, waterway
transportation, etc.) made it possible to inject important sums of money into local
economies, thus contributing to their recovery. Despite a set of difficulties, a great deal of
these activities continues to be carried out and continue to grow.
8.      Studies of organizational diagnosis, operational audits and capacity building
activities that have been funded by the project have contributed to creating conditions
required for the methodical continuation of economic reforms carried out before the
project, and a consolidation of the decentralization process. The main sectors of the
Congolese economy (crude oil, forestry, telecommunications, and financial
administration) have been subject to organizational diagnosis and audits.
9.      As far as consolidation of the decentralization process is concerned, the whole
program of capacity building has not been achieved due to the lack of time. However,
important training sessions have been organized and held for 488 agents of
deconcentrated administrations and local governments in ten (10) departments, with the
help of tailored educational booklets that have been elaborated in the framework of the
project. Moreover, the design and the adoption of ten implementation decrees on
decentralization have made it possible to fill the regulatory void on fiscal and budgetary
of local government administration. The Local Government Administration and its
various branches have been supplied with computing equipment, office automation
materials (software and stationery) and office furniture, to help them modernize their
management.
10.     Resources allocated to Component D enabled the improvement of assets in
currencies and balance sheets, and reduced the external debt. Acquired materials and
furniture have improved the functioning of administrative structures and local
governments.




                                               28

Sustainability of the project's outcome
11.     The following findings are from the succinct impact studies carried out in 2007
and 2008 for the bulk of investments under Component A and a sample of Component B
sub-projects:
    ·   Schools and health facilities (CSI and hospital) rehabilitated or reconstructed and
        equipped under the PURAC do not yet have a full contingency of staff to assure
        maximum improvement of services expected by such investments.
    ·   For local governments, markets that are built by the PURAC are important
        sources of additional revenue, and their correct use will assure the sustainability
        of investments through a good maintenance program. 85 agents have already been
        recruited locally to handle the maintenance of the fifteen markets built by the
        project.
    ·   There is no maintenance program of road infrastructures rehabilitated or built
        under PURAC for the time being.
    ·   The management of electricity supply networks and of streetlights developed in 4
        cities will be under the guidance/control of SNE. It is too early to appreciate the
        sustainability of the services to be supplied.
    ·   The sustainability of activities funded under Component B to support
        communities normally depends on beneficiary organizations, given that what the
        project essentially financed productive investments (more than 88% of sub-
        projects). It is difficult to appreciate the sustainability for farming and fishing
        exploitations, although many of them show positive signs or signals of
        sustainability. Two problems related to sustainability were pointed out after the
        conduction of partial surveys. Sustainability seemed to be problematic because of
        the following reasons: (i) the small industrial units (five only) are handicapped by
        difficulties and costs related to fuel supplies; (ii) stock and poultry farming
        activities have suffered from recent epidemics and the lack of animal feed supply
        resulted in difficulties to feed the animals.
12.     For economic reforms and capacity building, the ongoing process that has been
started with the Bretton Woods Institutions is encouraging, and should be continued.
Lessons Learned
13.     The most significant positive lessons
    The participatory process of identifying priority activities
    ·   The participatory process used to identify priority activities based on criteria and
        financial resources known in advance, was highly appreciated by the general
        public, organizations, communities and local governments that were involved for
        the first time.
    ·   Competition between enterprises and suppliers through a bidding process widely
        circulated or published and the concern of transparency in the selection of the
        successful bidder at all levels (central administration and local government) is
        good practice that can help reduce costs.




                                                29

    Application of delay-based penalties

    ·   Applying delay-based penalties to enterprises and suppliers in the implementation
        of Component A ­ which is something new in contract management in Congo ­
        highly boosted the completion of certain works within reasonable costs and
        deadlines.

14.     The most significant negative lessons
    ·   A poor engagement of local authorities and communities in the selection of
        NGOs. Departmental councils, deconcentrated authorities (prefectures and sub-
        prefectures) and even populations did not express the desire to be involved in the
        selection of organizations to benefit from project financing, coming from public
        resources that served essentially for achieving private productive investments.
    ·   Poor inclusion of sector administrations. Those services are not obliged to take
        into account the investments of the project in the elaboration of their priority
        programs and plans and the management of their human resources to enable
        immediate functioning and operation of equipment. For support to community
        organizations, the implementation agency did not have the needed technical
        capacities and means to enable a close follow-up of 190 activities covering 10
        departments. Activities that have had the support and technical assistance of
        departmental sector administrations were more successful than those that have
        received none such support.
    ·   Confusion in allocation of project management and of implementing agency.
        For Component A, the implementation agency had the dual mission of
        supervision and implementing agency; and such confusion did not facilitate
        smooth implementation and assure good quality control of studies and the
        supervision of works. These two missions should normally be assigned to separate
        entities, with clear definition of responsibilities.
    ·   Absence of a high-level steering committee, given that it was a multi-
        dimensional project. To guarantee immediate operation of equipment and
        sustainability of results of a multidimensional project such the PURAC, it was a
        must to have a high-level steering committee made up of ministers in charge of
        the sectors or fields involved, or at least their senior civil servants, and chaired by
        the Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget or his Cabinet Director.
    ·   Excessive importance given to the quick execution of investments. The
        emphasis on the quick implementation of investments partly explains the poor
        quality of some studies (numerous inaccuracies and unexpected additional works),
        which seriously delayed works.

(b) Comments received from the government on draft Bank ICR
The full text in French is reproduced below. In the cover letter, the government expresses
thanks for the collaboration between the government and the Bank in the implementation
of the PURAC and hopes that the activities can be multiplied and the experiences
replicated. The comments on the actual ICR essentially concern editing changes. The
exception is a comment that the ICR is excessive in stating, in the context section of the


                                               30

ICR, that "mismanagement of the country's abundant oil resources further held up
recovery efforts." This statement is found excessive since progress has been made since
then.




                                            31

32

33

34

35

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(a) Comments received from ACTED, implementing agency for Component A
The full comments in French are included below. The comments pertain to: (1) A request
for adding text to the effect that the multiple roles played by ACTED in project
implementation contributed to speeding up implementation, although also creating
conflict of interest. (2) Clarification that the ACTED Project Agreement did not contain
activities or a budget related to M&E activities. (3) Lack of fully covering supervision
was a result of the large geographic spread of activities combined with centralization of
ACTED staff in Brazzaville. This was addressed by the establishment of a decentralized
supervision office in Dolisie in 2006. (4) Correction of the background for false
certifications, which was not the result of lack of presence of ACTED in the field, as
stated in the draft ICR, but rather resulted from actions of a single ACTED employee,
who was not acting in the best interest of ACTED.




                                                36

37

38

(b) Comments received from UNDP, implementing agency for Component B
The comments of UNDP, reproduced in full below, in essence agree with the analysis
contained in the ICR and do not contain any points that warrant a specific response.




                                          39

40

41

42

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


· Memorandum and Recommendation of the President and Technical Annex (Project
  Document).

· Development Financing Agreement.

· Project aide-mémoires.
· Mid-term review report.
· Impact studies:

        1. Rural roads (two studies covering separate geographic areas).

        2. Economic evaluation of markets.

        3. Impact studies for Components A and B (including beneficiary survey).

· Technical audit of Component A.
· Audits and studies financed by the PURAC.
· Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs).
· Government Implementation Completion Report.

· Official correspondence concerning additional financing, restructuring, and extension
  of project closing date.

· Transitional Support Strategy (2000).
· Transitional Support Strategy (2003).
· Interim Support Strategy (2007).
· Country Partnership Strategy (2009).
· Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2008).




                                         43

Annex 10 (Supplemental Annex). Performance Indicators from the Technical
Annex




                                  44

45

46

                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33390

                                                                             14°E                                  16°E                                            18°E



                                                                                                               C E N T R A L A F R I C A N

4°N                                                                                                                       R E P U B L I C                                           4°N

                                       CONGO
                                                                      C A M E R O O N

                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                    Batouri                                    Ibenga                  Bétou




                                                               To
                                                           Ebolowa                                                                                Motaba




2°N                                                                      Souanké                             Ngoko                         L I K O U A L A                          2°N


                                                                                         Sembé                           Ouésso                          Impfondo

                                                                                                                                               Epéna


                                                                                                             S A N G H A                                                      Congo

                                                                                                     C o n g o
                                              To                                                                                                 Likouala
                                          Lambaréné                                                            Mambili  Lengoué    Sangha


                                                                                W E S T E R N
                     G A B O N                                                   C U V E T T E
0°                                                                                    Etoumbi

                          To
                        Booué                                                                               C U V E T T E        Likouala                    Ubangi                  0°



                                                                                                                     Owando
                                                                                                                          Kouyou                 Liranga
                                                                                                                                                                       Lake
                                                                                      Ewo              B a s i n                                                       Tumba



      To                                                                                                Alima                  Mossaka
 Lambaréné
                                                                                          Okoyo
                                                                                                       P L AT E A U X

                                                                                                      NkénGamboma
                                                                                                           i
2°S                                                                                                                            Congo     DEMOCRATIC                                 2°S
                                                           Mbinda
                                                   Louéssé                                                                                 REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                  Ngo                                                      Lake
                                                                                                                                         OF CONGO                          Mai-Ndombe
                                                                                              Djambala

                                                                            Zanaga
                                     N I A R I                                          B a t é k é                                                     Fimi
                                                        Mossendjo
                                                                                       P l a t e a u                           Kwa
                                                                                                                  Ngabé
                                                                                             é
                                                             LÉKOUMOU                                                                     0 20 40 60 80 100 Kilometers

                                     Makabana                                             DjouP O O L

                   KOUILOU
4°S                             Nkola Kouilou             Niari Sibiti                                                                    0   20     40     60     80  100 Miles


                                                                                                                                                                                    4°S
                                            Dolisie                     Madingou     BRAZZAVILLE                                                                   18°E
                                                                BOUENZA
                      Kayes                                                        Kinkala

                                                                                                                                                  CONGO
                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                          Kikwit
                  Pointe-Noire

ATLANTIC                                                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
 OCEAN                           CABINDA
                                (ANGOLA)                                                                                                                REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                               To
                                                                                              Matadi                 To
This map was produced by                                                                                           Lusanga                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                             RIVERS
colors, denominations and                                                                      To
any other information shown                                                         M'banza Congo                           6°S                         MAIN ROADS
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                         A N G O L A                                                                          RAILROADS
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
boundaries.                      12°E                                        14°E                                  16°E                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                            SEPTEMBER 2004

