Do=mt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C  1P. / /7> 
Report No. P-4403-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
I NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC IATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 26.9 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
OF SDR 64.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
March 23, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Calendar 1985   From January 1986   From September 1986
US$1              054.054             090.0                0128-155 1/
Cedi (0) 1          US$0.0185           US$0.011           US$0.0073-0.0065
FISCAL. YEAR
JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
ABBREVTATIONS
ADF       -    African Development Fund
Cocobod   -    Ghana Cocoa Board
ECG       -    Electricity Corporation of Ghana
EFF       -    Extended Fund Facility
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
GHAIP     -    Ghana Italian Petroleum Company Limited
GNPC      -    Ghana National Petroleum Corporation
COITL     -    Ghana Oil Company Limited
GP&T      -    Ghana Posts and Telecommunications
GPHA      -    Ghana Ports and Harbour Authority
GRC       -    Ghana Railway Corporation
GWSC      -    Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
LODP      -    Letter of Development Policy
MFEP      -    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NATCAP    -    National Technical Cooperation Assessment
OHCS      -    Office of the Head of Civil Service
PIB       -    Prices and Tncomes Board
PNDC      -    Provisional National Defence Council
SAF       -    Structural Adjustment Facility
SATS      -    Structural Adjustment Institutional Support
SEC       -    State Enterprises Commission
SGMC      -    State Gold Mining Corporation
SIL       -    Special Import Licence
SOE       -    State-owned Enterprise
UNFPA     -    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
VRA       -    Volta River Authority
1/   A dual exchange rate system was established on September 19, 1986 when
a foreign exchange auction was instituted for specified transactions.
The 990 rate applied to the first window (cocoa and residual oil
exports, petroleum and essential drugs imports, and central government
debt service contracted before January 1, 1986); the rate on the
second window was established at the weekly auction. The two rates
were unified with effect from February 20, 1987; all transactions
are now valued at the rate emerging in the weekly auction. In the
week ending March 13, 1987, the marginal rate at the auction was
0155 = US$1.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Credit and Program Summary   ..................so. so a                .        i-.i
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A.   Introduction   ....................................                    1
B.  Structure of the Economy                  .........................    2
C.  Economic Performance between 1970-1982   ...........                   3
D.  The Economic Recovery Program 1983-1986 ...........                    4
E.  The Economy's Response:  1983-1986             ................        6
F.  Stabilization tssues in 1986   .....................                   8
G.  Remaining Adjustment Tasks in the
Short to Medium Term   ....,             .....................      9
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
OVERVIEW .................... 10
INCENTIVE POLICIES   * * *.**.*.*..*.*.*......................... . .........  14
A.  Trade Liberalization   .............................                  14
B.  Cocoa Sector Policy                ..............................     16
REFORM OP THE PUBLIC SECTOR   ..........................                  19
C.  Public Expenditure Policy   ............     so..* .......            19
D.  State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) Sector               ............      22
E.  Public Sector Management   ......           ...................       24
MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM ISSUES    .....           ...................       29
F.  The Next Phase of Adjustment   ..................           ...       29
C.  Addressing the Longer Term Challenges ..........            ...       29
PART III - IDA'S ROLE AND THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A.  Experience with Past Policy-Based Lending ..               ........    34
B.  Background to the Proposed Operation   ...... .......                 35
C.  The Proposed Financing Package   .........             ..........     35
D.  Procurement and Disbursement   .....................                  38
E.  Monitorable Actions   ............. ..            ...............     39
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EFFECTS   .....            .....................      40
F.  Economic Effects   ..............       ..     .................      40
G.   Social Impact   .....................   ..........                   46
H.  Risks        ......................      ......................       48
PART IV  - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA   ............ .....                  50
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF  .......................                    53
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION .........................                              55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page
TEXT-TABLES:
I   Projected Financing Needs and Availabilities   ....    36
2   Selected Economic and Financial tndicators  ......    41
3   Two Scenarios (1986-95)            ............         44
ANNEXES:
t   Economic Indicators
11   Status of Bank Group Operations in Ghana
lit    Supplementary Data Sheet
IV   Letter of Development Policy
V   Matrix of Policy Actions
Vt   Macro-Economic Projections



GHANA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Sumnary
Borrower:           Government of Ghana
Credit Amounts:
IDA:              SDR 26.9 million (US$34 million equivalent)
African Facility: SDR 64.0 million (US$81 million equivalent
Total:            SDR 90.9 million (US$115 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA and African Facility terms.
Program
Description:        The proposed credits would support the Government's
structural adjustment program which aims (i) to
establish an incentive framework that stimulates
growth, encourages savings and investment, and
strengthens the balance of payments, and (ii) to
improve resource use, particularly in the public
sector, and direct resources to key areas of
adjustment, while ensuring fiscal and monetary
stability. The Ghanaian authorities have, with Bank
staff assistance, prepared an action program of
monitorable measures in a few strategic areas to be
implemented in the present phase of the Government's
adjustment program (1987-88) and to be supported by
SAL. The Government's Letter of Development Policy
(Annex IV) outlines these measures and sets them in the
context of the overall adjustment program. The SAL
policy framework will focus on trade liberalization,
cocoa sector policies, public expenditure policy,
state-owned enterprise reform, and public sector
management.
Program Benefits:   The structural adjustment program is expected to
improve the Ghanaian economy's growth prospects through
a strong stimulus to exports and efficient import
substitution, improved incentives to private and public
savings, the planned expansion in public investment,
and increased efficiency in the use of resources. The
resultant recovery in exports and private sector
remittances will improve the long run viability of the
balance of payments. The exchange and trade reforms
will shift incentives further from trading and
rent-seeking activities to production, and encourage
manufacturers to shift emphasis towards exports. The
reduced role of the state in the productive sectors,
the planned rehabilitation of infrastructure, and the



- ii -
overall improvement in incentives, is intended to
improve the environment for the private sector. The
public sector will be slimmer, and more efficient in
the use of resources. State-owned enterprises, in
particular, will be more subject to market forces.
Public investment is to be stepped up and prioritized
to rehabilitate essential economic and social
infrastructure and support the recovery of the private
sector. The increased resource flows to health and
education and the restructuring of these expenditures
to emphasize primary education and primary health care
will reverse the downward slide of these important
sectors. Programs to monitor and minimize the social
costs of adjustment are under preparation.
Program Risks:       The risks associated with the structural adjustment
program are; (i) weak implementation capacity of the
Government; (ii) possible delays in the supply response
to the reforms; (iii) exogenous shocks from climatic or
commodity price behavior; and (iv) socio-political
risks. However, technical assistance available under
the accompanying Structural Adjustment Institutional
Support Project and other ongoing projects, and
smoother import flows based on the past three years'
procedural strengthening and experience, will mitigate
the implementation capacity and supply response risks.
In addition, the general public is benefiting from the
return to economic growth, and with the increasing
strength of the economy, exogenous shocks may be better
absorbed.
Financing Plan:      IDA                              US$34.0 million
African Facility                 US$81.0 million
Estimated            The credits would be disbursed in two tranches:
Disbursements:       US$57.5 million equivalent would be available upon
effectiveness, and the remaining US$57.5 million
equivalent after a performance review to be held around
January 1988.
IDA FY                    1987      1988       1989
(US$ million)
IDA                        7.5       9.5        17.0
African Facility          23.0      50.0         8.0
Staff Appraisal      This is a combined President's and Appraisal
Report:              Report.
Map:                 18112R1



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND
A PROPOSED AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit of SDR 26.9 million (US$34 million equivalent) and a
proposed African Facility Credit of SDR 64.0 million (US$81 million equiva-
lent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Ghana to support the Govern-
ment's structural adjustment program. A proposed Development Credit of
SDR 8.6 million (US$10.8 million) for a parallel Structural Adjustment
Institutional Support (SAIS) Project is submitted separately (Report
No. P-4493-GH dated March 23, 1987).
2.        Part I of this report reviews the characteristics and recent
performance of Ghana's economy and outlines the main adjustment issues.
Part II describes the Government's structural adjustment program, and Part
III describes the present operation and analyzes its economic and social
impact. Part IV describes Bank Group operations in Ghana. Part V
describes IMF relations with the borrower and collaboration with the Bank.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
3.        A report entitled Ghana: Policies and Issues of Structural
Adjustment (Report No. 6635-GH) focusing on aid requirements for the
structural adjustment program is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Country data appear in Annex I.
A. Introduction
4.        Ghana lies on the Gulf of Guinea on the west coast of Africa, a
few degrees north of the equator. Preliminary data from the 1984 census
show a population of 12.2 million, of which over 70 percent is concentrated
in the southern half of the country, where much of its economic and natural
resource base is located. Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of
living compared with most other West African nations. However, poor
economic policies, combined with external shocks such as drought and oil
price increases, have contributed in the 1970s and early 1980s to a
declining gross domestic product. With a high population growth rate (a
natural rate of increase of about 3 percent), there has been a substantial
erosion of real per capita income to its present level of about $390
(1985). As a result, almost half the population is estimated to live in
absolute poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once ranked the



best in Africa, are now no better than those of other sub-Saharan African
countries with comparable per capita incomes. Modern health services are
available to only about a third of the people, and less than half have
access to safe water. Although the education system is well established
and primary schooling has been free since 1962, there has been a substan-
tial decline in standards, and 50 percent of adult men and 70 percent of
adult women have had no formal education.
5.        Since April 1983, when the Government of Ghana announced a major
Economic Recovery Program (ERP), there has been a marked improvement in
both policies and economic management. There has also been an impressive
recovery of the economy, with considerable progress in the realization of
the Government's stabilization and adjustment objectives. The Government
recognizes that to sustain these initial gains will require substantial
further adjustment over the remaining years of this decade, if not longer.
The structural adjustment program described in this report represents the
first stage of this longer term adjustment process. The initial response
of the economy to the significant adjustment efforts to date bodes well for
the outcome of the further measures planned. Nonetheless, the path ahead
is long and difficult, and success is contingent on political will, compe-
tent economic management, and a favorable external environment, including
sizeable concessional aid flows.
B. Structure of the Economy
6.        Ghana is comparatively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has a good supply of land suitable for growing a
variety of tree crops, most importantly cocoa, cereals, and starchy sta-
ples, and considerable fishing and forestry resources. The economy is
based primarily on small-scale agricultural production, chiefly of cocoa
and staple foods (maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain).
Agriculture accounts for 40 percent of GDP (at current 1985 market prices),
and 70 percent of the population derives its income from agriculture or
related activities. Productivity is typically low, due to inadequate
support services, lack of fertilizers and other inputs, and poor transport
facilities. Mining and forestry have been important sectors since the
nineteenth century.   The country has valuable mineral deposits,
particularly gold, but also diamonds, bauxite, manganese, and some offshore
oil. Domestic petroleum production still accounts for a small share of the
country's requirements, which are met largely through the import of crude
oil which is refined domestically and used chiefly as fuel for transport.
The Akosombo Dam on the Volta River, built in the mid- 1960s, and the Kpong
Dam, commissioned in 1982, are capable of meeting the country's foreseeable
needs for power, and there is further potential for hydro-power generation.
7.        After Independence in 1957, manufacturing output increased
substantially due to government policies which encouraged import substitu-
tion behind high protective walls.   Thus, although Ghana's manufacturing
capacity is relatively well developed, diverse and long established
compared to most other African countries, much of it is inefficient, with
low capacity utilization, and accounts for only 11 percent of 1985 GDP.



- 3 -
The services sector, which accounts for slightly over 40 percent of GDP, is
dominated by wholesale and retail trade. The country's transport
infrastructure was once relatively well developed, with railways in the
more populous south and a reasonable road network throughout. However,
years of neglect have substantially eroded the value of this investment.
8.        Until the mid-1970s, Ghana had one of the most developed and
effective education systems in Western Africa, with a significant increase
in enrollment at primary and secondary levels following the introduction in
1962 of compulsory and free universal education from the age of six. On
top of this substantial base lay a sizeable educated intelligentsia which
was larger in relation to the population than in other sub-Saharan African
countries. However, with reduced expenditures on education (falling faster
than even the rate of decline in the rest of the economy), there has been a
marked deterioration in the system. While primary enrollment has been
maintained at about 70 percent, there is a high drop-out rate, and access
to secondary and tertiary education is severely limited. Erosion of
teachers' incomes has led to a substantial exodus of trained teachers from
the system. This exodus is part of a larger brain drain that has eroded
the country's educated manpower base.
C. Economic Performance: 1970-1982
9.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghana's economy was poorly managed.  Large
budget deficits, driven partly by the need to support a sprawling, ineffi-
cient public sector, led to high inflation. Given a reluctance to adjust
the exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became grossly overvalued,
shifting relative incentives away from exports into import trade. The
resulting deterioration in export performance, combined with a growing
disenchantment on the part of aid donors with Ghana's performance, caused a
perpetual foreign exchange crisis that pushed successive governments into
increasingly restrictive import regimes, which in turn starved the economy
of the main fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base due to
declining exports and imports and the related drop in economic activity
forced severe cutbacks in Government operations and maintenance and capital
expenditures. There was, thus, a marked deterioration in what was once a
fairly well-developed economic and social infrastructure. This, in turn,
further reduced the country's productive capacity.
10.       A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem by eroding the incentives to produce and save, dimin-
ishing the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level and
quality of services, and creating a vast parallel black market with its
related corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining real wages,
political instability, and reduced economic opportunities, led talented and
skilled Chanaians to leave the country, depriving it of scarce managerial,
administrative, and technical resources.
11.       To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the early
1980s to three other problems. First, a prolonged and severe drought
created the worst food shortages since Independence. Second, the external



terms of trade sharply deteriorated following tho lncrease iTI petroleum
prices, and a softening in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa and gold,
the latter as compared to the high 1980 price). Third, the sudden return
of over one million Ghanaians from Nigeria severely strained the food and
employment situation. The cumulative effect of cho downward economic
spiral and the first two of theso 'shocks" to the system can be seen in tho
trends in key economic indicators between 1970 and 1982: per capita real
income declined by 30 percent; import volumes fell by a third; real export
oarnings foll 52 percent; domestic savings and investment declined from 12
and 14 percent of GDP respectively in 1970 to almost insignificant levels;
and inflation averaged 44 percent per annum over the period.
D. The Economic Recovery Program: 1983-86
12.       A Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) was constituted
when Flight Lieutenant J. J. Rawlings took power on December 31, 1981. To
address the general erosion of the country's economic and social founda-
tions, the PNDC introduced an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in April 1983
which was developed in close consultation with the IMF and the World Bank.
The program established a framework of policies for the 1984-86 period.
The IMF provided support for the program (see Part V) by making available
two successive stand-by arrangements covaring the period July 1983-December
1985 and approving two purchases under the Compensatory Financing Facility.
The Government met the performance criteria under the two programs and has
successfully completed all purchases. A third stand-by arrangement was
approved by the IMF Board on October 15, 1986. IDA has supported the
program, with four policy-based loans totalling some US$274 million
(including African Facility allocations) together with conventional project
lending of US$212 million. Total assistance from members and observers of
the recently reconstituted Consultative Group for Ghana, including IDA, has
risen sharply, with annual average commitments in 1984-86 of $434 million,
compared with $198 million during 1980-83.
13.       The ERP's major objectives have been (a) the realignment of
relative prices in favor of exports and the productive sectors, and away
from trading and rent-seeking activities; (b) the restoration of fiscal and
monetary discipline, (c) the initiation of efforts to rehabilitate the
country's productive base and economic and social infrastructure, and (d) a
restoration of incentives and the establishment of a proper climate for
private savings and investment. The main actions taken between April 1983
and June 1986 under the program are summarized below:
(i)       Exchange and trade policy:   The Government committed itself to a
flexible and realistic exchange rate policy. Over a three-year period to
January 1986, the cedi was depreciated, through frequent and large
discretionary changes, from ¢2.75 - US$1.00 to $90 - US$1.00, a
depreciation of over 90 percent in real terms. Nevertheless, the official
rate remained strongly overvalued, necessitating the retention of
quantitative controls over imports using official foreign exchange.
However, import controls were lifted on goods financed from importers' own
foreign exchange, for which "special unnumbered licenses" (SUL) (later



. 5 a
renamed "special import 11censes" (SIL)) ware issued. The SIL arrangement
was further libernlized in 1985 by shifting from a positive list of
eligible goods to a short negative list.  Meanwhile, the basic structura of
import taxation was simplified in 1983 to subject most imports to a uniform
customs duty rnte of 30 percont, plum n 20 percont sales tax (compared with
10 percont for mont domestic production). Many exceptions remained,
howovor, especinlly in the form of exeniptions for favored producers.
(Hi)      Price,s and incomes policy:  A related component of the program ls
the astatbli_ shinent of raolistic relative prices and incomes in the context
of the large movements in the exchange rate. Cocoa producer prices wera
raisod from 012,000 por metric ton in 1982/83 to p85,500 per metric ton in
1986/87.    Administered prices of imported goods have been adjusted
promptly to permit a full pass-through of the higher cedi cost following
successive exchange rate changes.   Tariff rates on all utilities were
raised sharply to reflect cost increases and eliminate or reduce subsidies.
Price controls have been largely dismantled to allow market forces to
determine price levels.   Comprehensive statutory price controls were
reduced to a list of eight essential goods I/ and distribution controls
were lifted during 1985. Remaining price controls take the form of
flexible price caps which allow the full cost plus a profit margin to be
passed on to the consumer. Public sector wages and salaries were raised
substantially in an effort to reverse partially a severe erosion in real
incomes of civil servants. Interest rates were increased sharply in an
effort to achieve positive real interest rates. As a result, the rate on
12-month time deposits more than doubled from October 1983 to 20 percent in
August 1986 while the maximum lending rate rose nine percentage points to
23 percent.
(iii)     Fiscal and monetary policy has been substantially tightened since
1983. There has also been a significant improvement in the structure of
the budget, with an impressive recovery in revenues (para 15) and a
restructuring of expenditure programs in favor of essential rehabilitation
expenditures.
(iv)      External payments arrears:   Cash payments together with consoli-
dation into medium-term loans reduced the level of arrears from $601
million in April 1983 to about $175 million at the beginning of 1986.
Arrears rose during the first half of 1986, but were reduced again to
$171 million by December 1986 (para 21).
(v)       Sector-specific programs were prepared to rehabilitate key export
industries (cocoa, gold, timber) and supporting infrastructure (power,
transport, telecommunicatLons and water supply) needed to ensure an
adequate supply response. These attracted considerable donor support. More
1/   Imported rice, sugar, baby food, cement, textiles, drugs, matches and
soap.



recently, new sector programs have been developed for agrLculture, induws
try, health, and education.
(vi)      Private sector environment:  A determined effort has bean made to
improve the clLmate for private Investment. The private uector Lo being
increasingly consulted at the highor levels of economic policy formulation
and is repremented on the National Economic CommLssion. Furthermore, a
numbor of docLsions that affect the sector are now brought before a
trLpartite committee of Government, trade unions and employers.   There has
boen a marked improvement in industrial relations. A new Investment Code
has been approved whlch ia designed to encourage domeatic and foreign
private investment and establish a framework of rule. to protect investors.
E. The Econom'  s Reo onse:    1983-1986
14.       The initial response of the economy to the pollcy reforms was
hoavily dampened by the severe drought ln 1983, infrastructure bottlenecks,
and lags in aid inflows. Nevertheless the Government persisted with, and
broadened the reform program. This has paid rich dividends in terms of
substantial gains in output, improved fiscal performance, a deceleration in
inflation and enhanced aid commitments in support of the program.   After a
decline in real output in 1983, economic performance Lmproved sharply. CDP
growth in the 1984-86 perlod averaged 6.3 percent, led by the strong
recovery in agriculture due to improved incentives and the return to more
normal weather. Manufacturing responded strongly to the lncreased avail-
ability of imported raw materials and spares, with growth averaging 14 per-
cent per annum. Minerals productlon recovered sharply from the low levels
of 1983 following the restoration of railway services to port, while the
services sector grew at 6 percent per annum. Thus, for the first time in a
decade, Ghana enjoyed three successive years of strong per capita income
growth. Data on savings and investment are sparse, but Bank staff esti-
mates suggest a healthy recovery in these key areas as vell.
15.       The government's fiscaL position also improved markedly.  Reve-
nues rose from 5 percent of GDP in 1983 to 14 percent in 1986. This
increase reflected in part the impact of the exchange rate depreciation on
the tax base and on the profits of the export sectors, particularly cocoa.
Direct taxes and non-tax revenues have also risen sharply, reflecting
improved tax administration, additional resource mobilization measures and
the improved economic performance. On the expenditure side, recurrent
expenditures have risen as a result of the decision to reverse partially
the erosion of real publlc sector wages and salaries, but have been suffi-
ciently contained to permit a small surplus on the current account.
Development expenditures have been stepped up to address infrastructure
bottlenecks. Capital expenditures (including project aid disbursements)
have risen from miniscule levels to nearly 6 percent of 1986 GDP. Despite
this increase, the overall deficit has been contained at levels well below
those prevailing in the 1970s and early 1980s. At the same time,
dependence on inflationary bank financing has been virtually eliminated.



16.       Money and prices:  The sharp drop in the ratio of broad money to
GDP to as little as 13 percent in 1984 has been partially reversed in this
period, with the ratio rising by 1986 to nearly 17 percent. This has been
possible despite conservative credit policies in which not credit to
Government has been reduced from about 9 percent of GDP ln 1984 to
6 percent by 1986. Credit outstanding to the private sector has increased
from 5 percent of GDP in 1984 to 8 percent in 1986. Nevertheless, the
private sector complains of a severe liquidity problem due to the very
large changes in the cedi costs of imports, the poor financial position of
most companies and a tight credit policy. The substantial improvement in
demand management since the ERP was launched combined with a sharp recovery
in agricultural production have contributed to the marked deceleration in
inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, from 123 percent in
1983 to 25 percent in 1986. This is despite the very large exchange rate
adjustments during this period, suggesting that prices of most commodities
in the economy were already reflecting their scarcity values.
17.       As for the balance of payments, the recovery of exports and
imports has been slow, and considerably below initial expectations.
Although the nominal value of exports rose by 21 percent per annum between
1983 and 1986, the recovery has been below program targets. The slow
export recovery reflected severe infrastructure constraints, structural
bottlenecks, and the continuing (albeit rapidly diminishing) inadequacy of
incentives. The strong reform program attracted a high level of external
aid commitments. Bilateral commitments have averaged around $165 mllion
in 1985 and 1986 while multilateral commitments averaged $2B5 million.
While bilateral commitments have remained below the levels recommended by
the Bank, they have risen sharply for a number of key donors such as
Canada, Germar.r Japan and the UK. The dependence on multilateral aid
remains high and the shift to quick disbursing aid has been somewhat slower
than desirable. Aid disbursements fell in 1985 to $224 million before
rising sharply in 1986 to $360 million. This partly reflected the shift in
the composition of new 1985 commitments away from quick disbursing program,
food and commodity aid provided in 1984; in addition, indications were not
converted into commitments till late in 1985 in many cases. Procedural
delays and liquidity problems facing importers added to the difficulties.
The improvement In 1986 disbursements reflected the greater utilization of
quick disbursing program assistance, improvement in procedures and
processes, and the establishment of the automatic licensing system
following the introduction of the auction in the last quarter of 1986. The
capacity to import was, therefore, somewhat constrained in 1985, but
improved substantially in the second half of 1986.
18.       Debt service burden: Ghana's medium- and long-term external
public debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding the IMF) at end 1985
amounted to US$1.2 billion. Short-term debt is estimated at $300 million.
Thus total debt is about 24 percent of GDP.   Bilateral creditors account
for two-fifths of medium and long-term debt; multilateral sources for about
one half (Bank and IDA loans comprised 32 percent of the total debt); and
suppliers credits for the balance. In addition, use of IMF credit at the
end of 1986 totalled SDR 611 million. The debt service ratio has risen



- 8 -
sharply from 14 percent in 1982 to 37 percent in 1986, due mainly to short-
term oil borrowings. The debt service ratio, inclusive of IMF repurchases
and settlement of payment arrears, rose to 47 percent in 1986.
F. Stabilization Issues in 1986
19.       Following two successful stand-by arrangements, the Government
began negotiations with the Fund for a third stand-by late in 1985.
However, it took nine months to reach agreement on the program, mainly
because of slippages and implementation difficulties associated with the
initial package of measures that constituted the 1986 program. This
package comprised the large (33 percent) exchange rate adjustment to g9O -
US$1.00, and accompanying adjustments in administered prices. At the same
time, the minimum wage was raised by a further 29 percent to 090 per day
and civil service pay relativities were revised to raise the ratio between
top and bottom pay scales from about 2:1 to almost 6:1. Income tax rates
were adjusted to ensure adequate improvements in after-tax relativities.
This package had been discussed and agreed with Fund and Bank staff. The
increase in the minimum wage was necessitated by the need to partially
compensate workers throughout the economy for erosion in their real incomes
and for the increase in productivity since the initiation of the reform
program. The increase in relativities for the civil service was intended
to improve morale and efficiency which was at an all time low. Both
objectives were largely attained.
20.       However, the wage and salary increases actually implemented
differed significantly from the ones originally intended (para 19).
Moreover, a number of salary related allowances were increased without
being properly costed. These led to a severe strain on the budget at a
time when there were unexpected shortfalls in revenue receipts on account
of delays in cocoa shipments. The increase in gover.nent salaries led to
leap-frogging action by employees of state enterprises and the private
sector.   Thus, net claims on government by the banking system rose sharply
in the first half of 1986, as did credit to the rest of the economy,
resulting in pressures on domestic prices and the build ulp of external
arrears for the first time since the initiation of the recovery program.
To correct the situation, the government took a number of measures aimed at
a turnaround in the budgetary and balance of payments situation. These
measures included the institution of a foreign exchange auction on
September 19, 1986 for specific transactions together with total relaxation
of discretionary import licensing for virtually all producer goods,
reductions in budgetary expenditures, including a revised permanent wage
and salary scale which went into effect in June 1986, and limitations of
civil service allowances for the year to those already paid through June.
Credit expansion was tightened and concessional lending rates eliminated
for agriculture and exports. Agreement on these measures formed the basis
for the Fund's third stand-by, which came into effect in mid-October 1986.
21.       Despite the limited time remaining in the year, the measures
introduced resulted in a significant reduction in the internal and external
imbalances that had emerged in the first half of 1986. The foreign



- 9 -
exchange auction resulted in a depreciation of the auction rate from p128
at the first auction to $154 by end January, narrowing the spread between
the auction and parallel market rates to 20-25 percent, compared to
100 percent prior to the auction. The Bank of Ghana's net foreign assets
position, which had deteriorated by $191 million during the first half of
1986, improved by $125 million during the second half of the year.
Similarly, external arrears after increasing by $139 million during the
first half, were reduced by $143 million in the second half. The
expenditure reduction measures introduced in the second half of the year
also enabled the Government to restrict its access to the banking system to
the sub-ceiling set under the Fund program. Credit to the "rest of the
economy" (the private sector) also remained within the targeted amount.
22.       However, net domestic assets as a whole exceeded the program
target by %9.3 billion. Of this, some g2.3 billion was due to Cocobod as a
result of larger than projected crop purchases and delays in anticipated
cocoa shipments. The rest represented developments in the "other items
net" account due mainly to a deterioration in the net position of the Bank
of Ghana in the last quarter of 1986, reflecting foreign exchange losses,
unanticipated obligations to the Ghana Commercial Bank, as well as an
increase in net unclassified assets. This substantial increase in net
domestic assets contributed to a total expansion of broad money of
54 percent for 1986, as against the programmed increase of 19 percent.
However, the real growth and inflation (consumer prices) objectives for the
year of 5 and 25 percent respectively were met. Under the stand-by
arrangement, the Fund and the Government have reached agreement on a
program for 1987 which aims at a growth of GDP of 5 percent in real terms,
a reduction in inflation to 18 percent, and an overall balance of payments
surplus equivalent to $120 million.
C. Remaining Adjustment Tasks in the Short to Medium Term
23.       Despite the considerable progress on structural issues during the
first phase of the ERP, the Government recognizes that further efforts are
needed in several areas. Reform of the exchange rate regime with a view to
unifying the different foreign exchange markets remains a centerpiece of
the adjustment program. With continued market determination of the
exchange rate through the auction, further liberalization of trade policies
is a logical corollary to improve incentives and reduce the bias against
exporting. A more realistic exchange rate for cocoa exports would also
permit improvements in the producer price, which is around one-fourth of
the f.o.b. price at the anticipated average official exchange rate
implying an excessively high level of taxation. Part of this high taxation
represents the inflated operating costs of the Cocobod despite substantial
reductions in its staff in late 1985.
2.4.      Achievement of the Government's development objectives continues
to be impeded by severe resource constraints. Despite the large wage
increases announced in 1986, salaries for senior staff are still too low;
operations and maintenance expenditures are inadequate; and development
expenditures are still inadequate, and have been insufficiently



- 10 -
prioritized, and subject to stop-go policies. State-owned enterprises
constitute a heavy drain on the budget. Moreover, as was clear from the
policy and monitoring slippages in 1986, despite a strong political commit-
ment to fiscal and monetary discipline, the capacity of the country's key
institutions to monitor and implement an adjustment program remains inade-
quate.
25.       The private sector response to the reform program has been
uneven. While confidence is recovering, the recovery is slow as the
massive changes in relative prices penalize trading, squeeze rents, and
create some uncertainty in the economic environment. Moreover, the recent
somewhat excessive zeal in tax collection to correct the difficult budget-
ary situation, and continuing uncertainty about the future direction of
policies and the Government's intentions have complicated the business
climate. Lack of confidence in the banking system in particular remains a
major obstacle to resource mobilization and contributes to the still low
ratio of broad money to GDP. Finally, the high debt service burden
requires a much more effective management of the external debt.
26.       This assessment of priorities has driven the Government's agenda
for structural adjustment described in Part II.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
OVERVIEW
27.       The basic objective of the Government's Structural Adjustment
Program is to lay a firm foundation for the development of a "buoyant,
self-reliant and increasingly integrated economy. To attain this objec-
tive will require an incentive framework that stimulates growth and encour-
ages savings and investment, and economic management that improves resource
use, particularly in the public sector, and directs resources to key areas
of adjustment, while ensuring fiscal and monetary stability.
28.       Within this broad overall objective, the Government is setting
itself the following more specific goals for the 1987-89 period:
(i) sustain economic growth at around 5 percent per annum;
(ii) increase the level of investment from about 10 percent of
GDP in 1986 to 23 percent of 1989 GDP at current market
prices, and to shift its composition to lay the foundation
for sustained long term growth;
(iii) increase the national savings rate from the present
7 percent of 1986 GDP to 15 percent of 1989 GDP;
(iv) improve the viability of the balance of payments; and



- 11 -
(v) improve the management of resources within the public
sector.
These objectives are to be attained in the context of macro-economic
stability, implying the continuation of the present regime of strict fiscal
and monetary discipline. The principal instruments to attain these goals
are summarized below:
29.       Incentive Policies:  The economic growth objectives are to be
attained through further improvements ln the incentives structure supple-
mented by sector-specific rehabilitation programs. On the incentives side,
the principal policy components are: (a) further progress towards a unified
and realistic exchange rate and rationalization of the several foreign
exchange markets with a view to their complete merger by January 1988; and
(b) a phased program of trade liberalization. The unification of the
exchange markets and a proposed rationalization of taxes on trade are
intended, in combination, to enable domestic prices to reflect more closely
their international equivalent and domestic value-added in production to
receive reasonable and more uniform effective protection. Meanwhile, the
once severe distortions in domestic prices have been moderated already by
the removal of price control on most commodities and the elimination of
distribution controls (pars 13 (ii)). Remaining price controls will be
progressively removed as the availability of goods improves further.
Agricultural producer prices have been liberalized for most crops. The
Government intends to ensure remunerative prices for the six crops (cocoa,
coffee, sheanuts, tobacco, cotton and rubber) for which the producer price
is still set administratively.
30.       Sector rehabilitation programs are designed to increase capacity
utilization in the key productive sectors through the financing of inputs,
spares and csi,ital goods, removal of transport and other infrastructural
and institutional bottlenecks, and the improvement of management of key
parastatals (such as the State Gold Mining Corporation). These programs
have now been integrated into a medium-term development program (see
paras 60-61).
31.       Policies to stimulate investment: The substantial increase in
investment levels proposed over the 1987-89 period is an essential compo-
nent of the government's development strategy. Almost all of the increase
in the public sector will need to be directed towards the rehabilitation of
the country's economic and social infrastructure (para 60), while the
private sector will need to take on the responsibility for rehabilitating
the country's productive base, particularly in agriculture and industry.
To bring about this increase in investment, the Government proposes to
maintain a stable and attractive environment for the private sector and to
seek joint ventures for selected public enterprises with foreign and local
private investors. It is seeking IFC's assistance in operationalizing the
new Investment Code and reviewing current disincentives to foreign and
domestic investment. In particular, the Government intends to develop a
phased program to clear the backlog of remittances of dividends and royal-
ties, while easing access to the auction for future such remittances. It



- 12 -
also intends to increase substantially public expenditure directed specifi-
cally at removing infrastructural bottlenecks (highways, railways, tele-
communications and ports) that are impeding the private sector's supply
response to the policy reforms. The Government's proposed expenditures
also aim at restoring the effectiveness of the health and education
systems.
32.       Policies to increase domestic resource mobilization:  The sub-
stantial increase proposed in the national savings rate is to be achieved
through measures to (a) encourage private savings, (b) attract a higher
level of private transfers from abroad, including workers' remittances, and
(c) increase the level of public savings.
33.       The main focus of policy in the area of private savings will be
to reverse the precipitous decline in the holding of financial assets
between 1977 and 1984 (when the ratio of broad money to CDP fell from
29 percent to 13 percent). With the reversal in the policies that were the
cause of this decline, the projected financial deepening to some 22 percent
of CDP by 1989 is a reasonable target, based on the stabilization experi-
ences of other countries and the expected recovery of this ratio to 17 per-
cent in 1986. It is intended to achieve this through efforts to restore
confidence in the financial system and in financial institutions. An IDA
financial sector credit is under preparation under which arrangements would
be made to restore the financial and managerial health of state-owned
banking institutions and, more generally, to reduce the operating costs of
commercial banks. Interest rates are to be maintained at positive levels
in real terms; with this in view, a three percentage point increase in
interest rates is to take place in the second half of March 1987. New
financial instruments, such as bearer bonds, are being issued and
commercial banks are being urged to pursue more aggressively the mobi-
lization of deposits. Tax policies are being progressively adjusted to
encourage savings. Overall macro-economic policies will be pursued with a
view to containing inflation.
34.       Private transfers and workers' remittances are expected to be
stimulated through the further progress planned on exchange rate policy and
through special measures designed to encourage flows through official
channels (to be designed with Fund and Bank staff assistance as part of the
ongoing financial sector study).
35.       The Central Government's budget is intended to be a major vehicle
for domestic resource mobilization. The ratio of revenues to GDP is
expected to increase from around 14 percent of GDP in 1986 to around
17 percent in 1989 (para 58). At the same time, Government intends to
contain recurrent expenditures (para 59), especially the total wage and
salary bill, and thus generate public savings.
36.       Policies to improve the balance of payments:  The Government sees
exchange and trade policy as the principal instrument for improving the
balance of payments in the 1987-89 period (see para 29 above). This will be
supplemented with measures to remove procedural and policy impediments to



- 13 -
non-cocoa exports under the policy framework being designed under the IDA
assisted Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (e.g., the removal of export
permits, increased flexibility in use of export retentions, streamlining of
import duty drawbacks, strengthening of the Export Promotion Council,
etc.). Workers' remittances are to be encouraged (para 34).
37.       The second component of the Government's strategy to increase the
capacity to pay for imports is an effective debt management strategy. The
country's debt-service ratio (debt-service payments expressed as a
proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services) is expected to
climb sharply from 48 percent in 1986 to 61 percent in 1987. About
two-fifths of the projected debt-service in 1987 is owed to the IMF and to
reduce arrears. The debt service ratio is projected to decline over the
adjustment period to 40 percent by 1990. This still leaves debt service
ratios at extremely high levels of 60-70 percent during the 1987-89 period.
To deal with this problem, the Government has developed jointly with IDA a
financing plan described in Part III of this report (paras 97-100), which
assumes a substantial but attainable level of concessional aid inflows, a
cautious approach to medium-term non-concessional borrowing, recourse to
medium-term IMF facilities designed to partially offset repurchases due
during 1987-89, and extend repurchase obligations from new facilities over
a longer time horizon (1993-1998).
38.       Policies to improve the management of resources in the public
sector:   Four sets of measures are currently under various stages of
implementation in this area. These are: (a) restructuring of public
expenditures (b) measures to reform and restructure the state-owned enter-
prise (SOE) sector; (c) measures to improve economic and financial manage-
ment; and (d) strengthening public administration by addressing problems of
low remuneration levels, shortage of manpower skills, inadequate wage
differentials and overstaffing at lower levels.
39.       As is clear from the above, the Government's proposed structural
adjustment program for the 1987-89 period covers a wide canvas. The Bank's
SAL supports the program as a whole. The main focus of the policy frame-
work under the ongoing IMF stand-by arrangement, and under the proposed
medium-term program now being discussed between the Covernment and the IMF
will be exchange rate policy, domestic resource mobilization, financial
sector policies, and external debt management. Allowing for this, and also
taking into account the policy framework under ongoing policy based IDA
operations such as the Second Reconstruction Imports Credit, the Export
Rehabilitation Credit, the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit, and the
proposed Financial Sector Credit, the Government has, with Bank staff
assistance, prepared an action program of monitorable measures to be
implemented in the present phase of the program (1987-88) and to be sup-
ported by SAL. The Government's Letter of Development Policy (LODP) (Annex
IV) outlines these measures and sets them in the context of the overall
adjustment program. A Matrix of Policy Reforms (Annex V) and Attachment I
to the LODP list the SAL actions. Much work will be required by the
Ghanaian authorities to prepare and implement these measures. The parallel



- 14 -
Structural Adjustment Institutional Support (SAIS) Project and the proposed
Public Enterprise Project are designed to assist in this effort.
40.       The SAL policy framework will focus on two areas of reform:
incentive policies and public sector reforms. Under incentives policies,
the two main components are trade liberalization (paras 41-45)and cocoa
sector policies (paras 46-53). Under public sector reforms, there are
three components: public expenditure policy (paras 54-62), state-owned
enterprise reform (paras 63-68), and public sector management
(paras 69-80).
INCENTIVE POLICIES
A. Trade Liberalization
41.       In the past, protection for domestic industries was provided,
frequently at excessive levels, through low prices for imported inputs,
high tariffs, and quantitative restrictions on competing imports. As noted
above (para 13(i)), the policy changes which the Government introduced
between 1983 and June 1986--notably, the drastic depreciation of the
official exchange rate, the harmonization of tariffs at a moderate 25-30%
rate and the removal of quantitative restrictions on imports that do not
require foreign exchange from official sources (the so-called SIL market)--
restored incentives to producers and greatly reduced the level of
protection. Through effective management of fiscal and monetary policies,
the successive devaluations had remarkably little inflationary impact and
the ratio of the parallel to the official (fixed) exchange rate narrowed
from over 30 to below 2. Nevertheless, the continued existence of a large
parallel market with a rate double the official rate necessitated the
continuance of administrative rationing of official foreign exchange. Thus
the level of protection remained well above that indicated by the tariff
structure, its pattern remained highly uneven, the benefits from it were
accruing to traders rather than producers in many cases, and potential
exports continued to be thwarted by the low cedi value of surrendered
proceeds as well as the tariff protection. Further measures were needed to
facilitate profitable exports, to reduce protection to reasonable levels
which would expose inefficient producers to competition, and to simplify
what had become an excessively complicated tax and tariff structure that
would continue to distort the pattern of protection once this was no longer
dictated by overvaluation and quantitative controls.
42.       The government's exchange and trade policy reforms aim at sub-
stantially increasing the reliance on market mechanisms for the allocation
of resources and reducing distortion through: (i) further reform of the
exchange rate by merging the various markets for foreign exchange and
establishing a realistic exchange rate; (ii) removal of quantitative
controls on imports; and (iii) related tax and tariff reforms. The estab-
lishment and maintenance of a realistic and market determined exchange rate
is at the heart of Ghana's adjustment program. Prior to September 19,
1986, there were three officially recognized markets for foreign exchange
in Ghana: the official market in which foreign exchange was



- 15 -
administratively allocated at a fixed exchange rate of g90-$l, the export
retention market in which exporters are permitted to retain a certain
portion of their export receipts for approved imports and debt service
payments, and the SIL market in which importers can bring in unrestricted
quantities of any goods (except five on the negative list) as long as they
do not require official foreign exchange and as long as they pay the
requisite taxes. In addition, unrecorded exports and remittances enable an
unknown quantity of "smuggled" imports on which taxes are evaded.
43.       The move to a unified and market determined rate under the
program is being attained in three stages. Stage I, which was initiated on
September 19, 1986, introduced a second-tier official market for foreign
exchange covering almost all non-cocoa transactions on the receipts side,
and all non-petroleum transactions, other than essential drugs and central
government debt service payments on debt incurred prior to January 1, 1986,
on the payments side. The exchange rate for this market was determined at
weekly foreign exchange auctions, and depreciated by about 70 percent in
relation to the official rate.   The sources of supply of foreign exchange
for this auction were non-cocoa export receipts (other than those retained
by exporters under the export retention schemes), invislbles earnings,
non-project concessional aid flows and commercial borrowings, tourism and
private remittances. During Stage I demand comprlsed all private sector
a-nd state owned enterprises (other than Cocobod) that wished to import
non-consumer goods other than petroleum.   External debt servicing, Govern-
ment, Cocobod and petroleum imports were financed from cocoa exports. To
enable the auction to set market exchange rates closer to the equilibrium,
the Government removed quantitative restrictions on virtually all imported
raw materials and spares and capital goods with effect from October 1986 by
issuing licenses automatically to anyone who wished to import these goods.
It also moderated the effect of the higher foreign exchange cost by
reducing the customs duty rate to 20 percent for approved manufacturers'
imports of raw materials which did not already enjoy lower rates or
exemption.
44.         Stage II, which was announced on February 20, 1987, merged the
two-tier official market by using the auction determined rate for all
officially funded transactions, thus ending the discrimination against
cocoa exports and the implicit subsidy on petroleum imports. Sources of
demand and supply for the auction remain virtually the same under the new
regime. Stage III, which is to be implemented during calendar 1987, will
progressively merge the SIL and auction markets by permitting importers to
bid at the auction for imports of consumer goods. During 1987 the size of
the auction market is expected to be around $160-190 million, or under
one-fourth the value of non-oil imports. Agreement has been reached
jointly with the Fund and with IDA on the timing of various actions for
achieving this.   In particular, categories of goods which comprised about
40 percent by value of SIL imports in 1986 are to become eligible for
auction funding by April, and full integration is to occur by January 1988.
The process of achieving full liberalization, including the removal or
relaxation of prior licensing on consumer goods imports and the progressive
liberalization of invisible transactions, will need to be coordinated with



- 16 -
other measures. Those include efforts to further rationalize the structure
of effective protection provided by the tax and tariff regime in order to
facilitate the adjustment of efficient activities, encourage export produc-
tion, and build confidence in the auction market so as to expand the supply
of foreign exchange from non-traditional exports and personal remittances.
Retention accounts for traditional exports are to be reduced to increase
the supply of foreign exchange to the auction subject to review of contrac-
tual obligations to third parties. The export retention scheme for
non-traditional exporters is to be retained (and the allowance was
increased to 35 percent in February 1987), pending a review of its role in
the new exchange and trade regime.
45.       The full liberalization of imports will need to be accompanied by
a reform of the system of trade taxes, including tariffs, to provide a
moderate and even pattern of effective protection. The Government has made
a start on the reform process by introducing some interim changes in its
1987 Budget, to remove some obvious distortions in the sales and excise tax
structure and to improve the scope for exporting under the policy framework
agreed for the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. However, more compre-
hensive reforms to rationalize the structure of protection and put export
production on a more equal footing with domestic market production will
need to await a comprehensive review, including subsectoral analysis. The
Government proposes to conduct such a review, with IDA and IMF assistance,
during the first half of 1987 and to introduce the needed fiscal reforms
prior to second tranche release. Implementation of the program for phasing
consumer goods imports into the foreign exchange auction on the agreed
timetable as well as implementation of related tax and tariff reforms is a
condition for release of the second tranche.
B. Cocoa Sector Policy
46.       The Government's main objectives in the cocoa sector are to:
(a) iBprove producer incentives; (b) reduce the share of resources absorbed
by the Cocobod from an estimated 32 percent of the cocoa export proceeds in
1985/86 to 15 percent of the currently projected f.o.b. price of cocoa in
1988/89; (c) reassess the present system of cocoa taxation with a view to
ensuring its consistency with adequate producer incentives; and, thereby,
to increase production of cocoa from 212,000 tons to 258,000 tons by
1988/89, and to 305,000 tons by 1994/1995.
47.       Cocoa Producer Price:  Although cocoa production has responded
well to the improved incentives for cocoa farmers following the seven-fold
increase in the cocoa producer price since 1983, farmer incentives, though
much improved, remain inadequate. At the current producer price of $85,500
per ton, incentives for rehabilitation and replanting of cocoa remain weak;
the cocoa farmer gets far too small a share of the world price compared
with cocoa growers in other countries; and the incentive to smuggle cocoa
out of Ghana remains considerable.



- 17 -
Cocoa indicators:           1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88
(actual)    (actual)   (estimate)  (SAL program)
Production ('000 KT):          174          219          230          243
Producer price (%/ton)      30,000       56,600       85,500      150,000
Real producer price
(1970/71 - 100)                 38           62          80           124
Producer price as
% of world price: W             25           24           28           42
Producer price as
1 of Ivory Coast price W        27           29           33           57
at official exchange rate
k/ at parallel market exchange rate
The Government recognizes that the present producer price results in an
excessively high level of effective taxation of cocoa farmers and intends
over time, and as rapidly as feasible, to bring taxation of cocoa farmers
in line with taxes for persons earning similar net incomes in the economy
at large.
48.       In the short to medium term, under the Structural Adjustment
Program, the Government intends to raise the producer price progressively
with a view at least to (a) ensuring that the benefits of further exchange
rate movements are fully passed on to farmers, (b) reducing the price
incentive to smuggle cocoa, and (c) ensuring an adequate stimulus to
improved yields and output. It is the Government's intention to announce
on Hay 1, 1987 a producer price of 0140,000 per metric ton for the 1987/88
crop year. In addition, farmers will receive a lO,000 per ton bonus at
the end of the season linked to a production target for the crop year. If
the cedi equivalent of cocoa export proceeds exceeds the level currently
projected somewhat conservatively, the excess will be shared between
farmers and Government in proportions to be agreed with the Association by
April 30, 1987. Farmers will be provided this compensation payment at the
beginning of the 1988/89 crop year. For producer price setting beyond
1987/88, further studies are needed on the price elasticities of supply,
the likely consequences for smuggling of further price adjustments, and the
relative returns to replanting and rehabilitation compared to those for
competing crops. A cocoa incentives study to be carried out by the Cocobod
and completed by December 1987, with the help of consultants and IDA staff,
will also establish a methodology for future producer price setting and
train Cocobod staff in its use. Subject to the results of the study, it is
the Government's intention to raise the producer price progressively to an
indicative target of 55 percent of the long-run world price by 1988/89.
Agreement with the Association on the producer price for 1988/89 is a
condition for second tranche release.
49.       Cocobod:  In the first phase of the Economic Recovery Program
(1984-86) the Ghana Cocoa Board was turned into a statutory public corpora-
tion and reorganized into operating divisions and wholly owned
subsidiaries.   Studies were initiated under the Export Rehabilitation



- 18 -
Technical Assistance Project on all aspects of the Board's activitios, and
the results have been evaluated, and in some cases are already being
implemented. One major accomplishment has been a reduction in Cocobod's
payroll by about 41,000 (41 percent), of which 25,000 represented ghost
workers and some 16,000 were retrenched following an initial staffing and
functional review. Cocobod is currently entrusted with three major tasks:
(a) the internal and external marketing of cocoa, coffee and shoanuts;
(b) the provision of essential services to farmers, such as extension,
research, and input supply; and (c) production activities, including the
operation of 92 cocoa and coffee plantations, the processing of cocoa beans
and the formulation of insecticides. The studies undertaken suggest that
marketing costs for cocoa remain excessively high relative to those of
Ghana's competitors; support services to farmers are poorly managed and
overstaffed; and plantation and processing activities are inefficient and,
in many cases, non-viable.
50.       To address these issues, a two-pronged approach is proposed.
First, the agreed budget and work program for 1986/87 will be followed by a
rolling corporate plan for a three year period beginning with the crop year
1987/88 with a view to reaching the target of reducing Cocobod operating
costs to about 15 percent of the presently projected f.o.b. price by crop
year 1988/89. To effect these cost reductions, Cocobod will: (a) attempt
to confine itself to activities which cannot be undertaken more efficiently
by other public institutions or the private sector; (b) progressively shed
all activities extraneous to its purchasing, marketing, extension and
research functions, and (c) retrench all remaining excess labor. The
1986/87 work program and the 1987/88-1989/90 corporate plan will specify a
series of monitorable actions with a timetable that will include a further
reduction in the number of Cocobod employees, divestiture of at least 52 of
the 92 cocoa and coffee plantations during 1986/87, and most of the
remainder in later years (subject to a study now underway), establishment
of a joint venture for the insecticide formulation plant, rationalization
of processing plants, phasing out of input subsidies, and transfer of cocoa
feeder road programs to the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR). The specific
measures to be taken in the Cocobod's fiscal year ending September 30, 1987
have been spelled out in a Statement of Policy from Cocobod to Government.
These include the transfer of cocoa roads to DFR, divestiture of 52
plantations, the establishment of a joint venture for the insecticide
formulation plant, and implementation of the second phase reduction in
employment levels. Implementation of the restructuring measures and
agreement with the Association on the Cocobod corporate plan for
1987/88-1989/90 are conditions for release of the second tranche. Second,
the Government has requested IDA to evaluate the lessons for Ghana from the
experience of other countries in liberalizing the internal and external
trade in cocoa with a view to studying in 1988 options for modifying
Cocobod's role in the marketing of cocoa.
51.       Cocoa taxation:  As noted in para. 47, the level of taxation of
cocoa is excessive and needs to be reduced. It is currently designed
around the Cccobod: once the producer price is set, and a budget for the
Cocobod is agreed, the balance of export receipts accrue to the Treasury.



- 19 -
The system takes little account of the expenses incurred by individual
producers, either in the production process or for subsistence. The tax is
inequitable as botween large and small producers. Export rcceipto are
highly volatile, with the budget bearing the entire burden of this
volatility. Given these weaknesses, the cocoa incontivos study (porn 48)
will examine alternative ways of taxing cocoa but within tho overall.
objective of eliminating as rapidly as possible the explicit discrimination
against cocoa farmers implied by the tax on cocoa. The study will be
completed by December 1987, and applied to the establishment of a producer
price for 1988/89.
52.       The agenda for cocoa reforms li ambitious, and will require the
cooperation of a number of agencies within and outside the Government.
With this in mind the Government has appointed a full-time Board of Direc-
tors and new Chief Executive for Cocobod and a PNDC Secretary for Cocoa
Affairs.
53.       Production strategy:  To enhance the impact of the above measures
the Government has developed a production strategy which would be
implemented under an IDA assisted Cocoa III project. This would strengthen
extension and adaptive research servlces to cocoa farmers, improve disease
control, increase the supply of cocoa hybrid seedlings to farmers for
replanting and new planting as well as other key inputs, and also support
the institutional reforms. The project is expected to be ready for
implementation during 1988.
REFORM OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR
C. Public Expenditure Policy
54.       The erosion of the country's resource base in the 1970s and early
1980s accompanied by a lack of fiscal disclpline, produced a major
budgetary crisis on the eve of the reform program. With a declining
revenue base, and an overall budget deficit equivalent to 6 percent of CDP,
public expenditures were severely compressed. Civil service wages and
salaries were eroded substantially in real terms and wage differentials
were drastically narrowed. At the same time, employment rolls were
excessively padded. Operations and maintenance expenditures were neglected
while public investment declined to less than 1 percent of CDP by 1982/83.
This neglect of maintenance and rehabilitation investments in
infrastructure resulted in a near collapse of the country's transport and
telecommunications system and a severe erosion of a once well-developed
health and education infrastructure. Clearing the backlog of rehabilita-
tion needs in these sectors will take enormous resources and strain imple-
mentation capacity, but it is as essential a component of the country's
adjustment strategy as measures to ensure the more efficient use of
budgetary resources and to reduce waste and unproductive expenditures.
55.       Since the introduction of the ERP, the Government has made
considerable progress in restoring fiscal stability by strengthening the
revenue base (through economic growth, policy improvements, and new fiscal



- 20 v
measures), reduclng substantially the slze of the overall budget deficit
and cutting drastically the dependence on inflationary bank financing. At
tho same time, civil servlco wages and salaries have been rAised sharply
and wage differentLals partly decomprossod. Nevertholess, sonior civil
servants are still. grossly underpiLd, and thore are far too many employeos
at the lower rungs of the civll servico. An effort has also been made to
raise provisions for oporations and maintenance and to incroase allocations
for capital expendLtures. However, wcaknossos in the machinery for project
proparation, selection and approval, lack of proper expendlture control,
and stop-go policies designed to ensure adherence to expenditure ceilings
have reduced the quality and effectiveness of public expenditure policy.
56.       The principal reform measure designed to address these issues is
the introduction of a rolling three-year public expendlture program
initially coverlng the 1986-85 period. The program reflects policy
improvements in the following areas: (a) the development of an overall
macro-economic framework within which the government budget will be set;
(b) increased domestic resource mobilization; (c) restructured recurrent
expenditures; (d) formulation of a rolling investment program; and (a)
establishment of criteria for project selection and for core expenditures.
Underpinning the program is a set of sectoral strategies which are set out
in the Public Expenditure Program (1986-88) issued in April 1987. The
1986-88 program has been agreed with the Associatlon, and forms the basis
for the 1987 budget. Agreement with the Association on a 1988-90 program
is a condition for second tranche release.
57.       Macro-economic framework:  A macro-economic framework incorporat-
ing the major policy assumptions has been prepared under the SAL program,
and endorsed by the Government Incorporating the growth, savings,
investment and balance of payments objectives summarized in para 28 (see
also Table 2).
58.       Revenue Mobilization:  The Government, in consultation with the
IMF, is preparing a program of speciflc measures for domes-ic resource
mobilization. The overall objective is to increase the ratio of budgetary
revenues to GDP from 14 percent of 1986 GDP to 17 percent of 1989 GDP,
while reforming the tax system to promote efficiency and equity. Further
improvements in tax administration, through strengthening management and
personnel and rationalizing the legal and administrative system will
supplement direct revenue raising measures. In the area of tax reform,
measures already underway or to be implemented during 1987-88 include:
(i) completion of the reform of personal income tax by further increasing
exemptions, lowering rates, and taxing cash allowances; (ii) reform of the
company income tax which currently does not provide appropriate incentives
to the productive sectors; (iii) the development of the sales tax as a
major source of revenue by extending its base, increasing the standard rate
(which would compensate for the elimination of smaller excise duties) and
introducing higher luxury rates; and (iv) enhanced taxation of petroleum
which will bring petroleum prices progressively closer to those in neigh-
boring countries. The implications of the major changes in the exchange
and trade regime for import tariffs and indirect taxes will be studied as



- 21 -
part of the Structural Adjustment Program to arrive at a more uniform
effective protection structure (para 45). Dependence on cocoa taxation is
to be reduced by lowering its level, and alternative ways of taxing cocoa
are to be explored via the study on cocoa incentives (para 51).
59.       Recurrent Expenditure:  The public expenditure program attempts
to restructure recurrent expenditures within an overall ceiling nf
13 percent of GDP through three separate initiatives. FList, expenditures
on personnel emoluments will be held to between 5.5 and 6 percent of GDP
over the 1987-89 period, while the size of the civil service will be
reduced by about 10 percent in 1987-88 (see para 77). The resources thus
released will be used to rationalize further the pay and allowances struc-
ture based on a detailed compensation study (see also para 79). Second,
expenditures on operations and maintenance will be increased substantially
over the period. Given the paucity of data on these expenditures, a study
has been initiated to develop guidelines for the three most important
sectors (agriculture, health and education). The work is sufficiently
advanced in the education sector to have been fully reflected in the
allocations for the 1987 budget; preliminary findings on health and
agriculture are reflected in the allocations for those sectors. The study
on those two sectors will be completed by June 1987 and fully incorporated
in the 1988 budget. As required, the study will be extended to other
sectors during 1987 and these results also incorporated in the 1988 budget.
Third, the Government will agree with IDA and arnounce in May 1987
guidelines to determine budgetary subsidies and transfers to SOEs.
60.       Capital Expenditures:  A draft public investment program for
1986-88 was submitted to IDA in May 1986. A November 1986 mission assisted
the Government in finalizing the program. Under the 1986-88 investment
program, budgetary investment will increase from an estimated 6 percent of
GDP in 1986 to 9 percent of GDP in 1987. The Government's program
emphasizes rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. Investment on
economic infrastructure, primar'ly transport and particularly roads and
highways, accounts for about 50 percent of total public investment. This
reflects the severe deterioration which has occurred, and the need for
adequate transportation facilities in order to facilitate the supply
response from the private sector. In addition to expenditures on road
rehabilitation and deferred maintenance, major projects are rehabilitation
of critical railway lines and the country's two ports. In the power
sector, which accounts for roughly 10 percent of the program, the major
activities are rehabilitation of electricity distribution and extension of
the transnission grid to the northern part of the country. Allocations to
the productive sectors account for only 30 percent of public investment,
reflecting the more prominent role expected of the private sector, particu-
larly in manufacturing. The main investments are focused in agriculture,
in order to improve the provision of basic services to farmers, and in the
partially or wholly state-owned mining companies where rehabilitation and
capacity expansion programs are in progress. The investment program
increases the share of resources for health and education from 2 percent
estimated for 1986 to 7 percent in 1987. The investments in these sectors



- 22 -
reflect an emphasis on rehabilitation and, in health, on primary health
care.
61.       In the process of finalizing the 1986-88 investment program, the
Government reached agreement with the Bank on several revisions including,
more recently, the postponement of a new road construction project, review
of the construction of additional grain storage facilities after completion
of an evaluation of food security strategy in Ghana, a shift in resources
from tertiary education to primary and secondary facilities, and an
increase in the provision for trunk road maintenance. In addition, many
projects were rephased in order to reflect more realistic implementation
goals and to bring the program in line with available resources in the 1987
central government budget.
62.       Criteria for project selection.  The Association reached agree-
ment with the Government on the criteria for entry of projects and programs
in the core investment program comprising some 80 percent of projected
resources for the development budget. For major non-social sector projects
(total costs exceeding $5 million), the main criteria for selection for the
core program are economic rate of return and relevance to the priorities of
the Economic Recovery Program. Major projects would not be included in the
core program without a feasibility study. In order to guide investment
decisions on projects below $5 million, priority would be given to
rehabilitation, foreign exchange earnings or savings, projects which would
generate additional budget revenue for the Government or have low recurrent
cost implications, and those with external concessional financing
equivalent or greater than 60 percent of total costs. The public sector
management component of the program will address the institutional issues
relating to project selection, and the Institutional Support Project is
designed to help strengthen the Government's capacity for project
evaluation. Beginning in May 1987 funding for an agreed select group
(currently 21) of critical projects will be protected in the event of
resource shortfalls through the use of special imprest accounts.
D. State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) Sector
63.       SOEs in Ghana play a major role in virtually all sectors of the
economy. Currently, the Government has a majority interest in 181 enter-
prises, and minority interests in a further 54. While these enterprises
were originally established to meet a number of economic and social objec-
tives, their performance has been characterized, for the most part, by
large losses and low productivity, with the result that they are a heavy
financial and managerial burden upon the Government. There are several
reasons for this poor performance. Until recently, the overall incentive
framework did not reward efficient production. Quantitative restrictions
on trade, extensive price and distribution controls, and high levels of
taxation contributed to poor overall performnace. Management was subjected
to political interference both in day-to-day operations and in major
decisions relating to location, choice of technology, choice of product,
wage negotiations and employment levels. Moreover, the quality of



- 23 -
enterprise management was poor, and as real incomes fell in the public
sector, the consequent loss of talent contributed further to the poor
performance.
64.       The Government recognized the need for reforms early in the ERP
and, in consultation with the Bank and UNDP, appointed consultants to
conduct an in-depth review of the sector. A task force was established to
evaluate the results of this review and subsequently proposed a
comprehensive SOE reform program. The overall objectives of this reform
program are: to improve the efficiency, profitability, and productivity of
state enterprises; to reduce the financial and managerial burden of the
sector on Government; and to increase SOE managerial autonomy and
accountability. A detailed two-year action plan was agreed with the
Association which focuses on three areas: (a) creation of an appropriate
policy framework for the sector; (b) a divestiture program; and
(c) strengthening SOE management and Government's ability to monitor and
evaluate managerial performance, targeting initial attention to 14 priority
SOEs with major budgetary and fiscal impact.
65.       Policy Framework:  A number of policy reforms will be introduced
to ensure that SOEs operate efficiently in a commercial manner and are
increasingly free from day-to-day interference in their operations. The
Government will establish guidelines for access of SOEs to budgetary funds
(para 59) with a view to reducing progressively both current and capital
transfers to them and phasing out subsidies over a 3-5 year period. The
Government will also introduce policies and procedures to ensure that:
(a) all investments by SOEs receiving support from Government (loans,
equity, loan guarantees) meet the criteria for inclusion in the Public
Investment Program (para 62); (b) there is a minimum level of
self-financing consistent with the SOEs' financial position; and (c) all
borrowings are on acceptable terms and conditions. To restore financial
discipline, SOEs will be expected to clear progressively all arrears with
other enterprises, the banks and the Government (which will also clear its
arrears to SOEs). Cross debts and arrears for the 14 priority SOEs have
been tentatively identified and a plan for settlement will be prepared and
agreed with the Association by October 30, 1987. SOEs will be expected to
pay a dividend to Government on their equity. SOEs will be subject to
increased competition and market discipline. Where there is only one
domestic producer, trade liberalization will, wherever possible, expose
SOEs to external competition. SOEs will be expected to compete for foreign
exchange and credit on the same basis as private sector firms. To address
overstaffing in the SOEs, the Government is continuing its current freeze
on SOE hiring (with exceptions for skilled and professional positions) and
will take steps to eliminate excess staff.   A 5 percent annual target
reduction over the next two years has been set by Government for the sector
as a whole, subject to identification of surplus labor in individual
enterprises. The initial focus will be on the priority SOEs, most of which
have identified surplus labor for retrenchment in 1987 and 1988. The
Government is preparing a labor retrenchment policy to ease the transition
to other productive employment in the private sector and will develop a
financing plan for SOE staff reductions by September 30, 1987.



- 24 -
66.       Divestiture Program:  To reduce the managerial and financial
burden of SOEs, the Government intends to contract the size of the SOE
sector. Following a preliminary categorization of the SOEs, 30 were
identified for outright sale, liquidation or conversion into joint ventures
in the first phase of the program, This initial group includes a mix of
profitable SOEs (which will be attractive to investors) and some major loss
making SOEs (e.g., State Fishing Corporation). A committee on divestiture
modalities and options has developed guidelines and policies for implemen-
tation of the program. A Divestiture Implementation Committee has been
established to manage the program. At least five of these SOEs (including
the State Fishing Corporation) will be offered for sale and liquidation
Proceedings will be initiated for a further five as a condition of
second-tranche release. The Government recognizes that in some cases
valuation may be lower than Government's investment due to the fact that
assets are run down and have minimal future earnings potential. By
December 31, 1987, there will be a progress review and agreement with IDA
on the next phase. Credit availability will be assessed during the
upcoming financial sector mission and may be addressed through the possible
financial sector project. For those non-viable SOEs selected for
divestiture where it is proving difficult to find buyers, liquidation will
be considered.
67.       Management Reform:  To strengthen the Government's ability to
monitor and evaluate SOE performance, the State Enterprises Commission
(SEC), the Government's oversight agency for the SOEs, has been
restructured and a chairman and executive directors appointed. The SEC
will monitor and evaluate the performance of selected SOEs, recommend
managerial bonuses and penalties on the basis of performance, and advise
the Government on key SOE issues. Enterprises will prepare three-year
corporate plans on the basis of which performance agreements will be
negotiated and concluded by the Government. By year-end 1987, 10 of the 14
priority SOEs will have completed corporate plans, approved by their Boards
of Directors and sector ministries. Draft performance agreements (based on
corporate plans) would be completed for 4 of the 10 priority SOEs, and an
agreement signed with Cocobod, by year-end 1987. Completion of the SOE
corporate plans and performance agreements is a condition for release of
the second tranche.
68.       To support implementation of these measures, technical assistance
including SOE management training will be provided, initially under a PPF,
through a proposed Public Enterprise project (FY88), and through other
sector operations.
E. Public Sector Management
69.       The Government is contending with a large number of economic,
technical, and institutional difficulties in carrying out the Economic
Recovery Program, and the related Structural Adjustment Program. Of these,
weak management and implementation capacity are emerging as particularly
important constraints. The key economic and financial management agencies
are seriously understaffed and suffer from severe shortcomings in



- 25 -
organization and equipment. In particular, policy analysis and the
planning process, including public investment planning, budgetary control,
aid coordination and debt management functions, need to be strengthened
urgently. Economic and financial management information systems need to be
modernized to facilitate policy making. The supply of professional skills
to the civil service needs to be augmented substantLally, while excess
staff at the lower levels need to be retrenched.
70.       The Government recognizes that as the adjustment program gathers
momentum, already overloaded economic management institutions will be
placed under increasingly severe pressure. It has, therefore, together
with Bank staff, developed an action plan for public sector management
reform, which will be supported by the parallel Structural Adjustment
Institutional Support (SAIS) Project. The SAIS project provides training,
technical assistance, equipment and materials to (a) strengthen analytical
capabilities and management in the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, tne National Revenue Secretariat, the Accountant General's
Department, and the economic coordination functions of the PNDC;
(b) attract and retain skilled Ghanaians in the public service; (c) promote
civil service reform through the Office of the Head of the Civil Service
(OHCS) including strengthening of personnel management; and (d) assist in
the implementation of labor rationalization. The policy framework under
the SAL addresses the major elements of the action plan to strengthen
economic and financial management and rationalize the civil service.
71.       The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) plays a
central role in the ER?. However, it is seriously understaffed at the
upper levels; it has insufficient policy analysis capability; its
individual functional divisions need strengthening; and its decision making
processes are ad hoc and overly centralized. At the same time, the load on
the Ministry is rising dramatically--especially the new demands of
preparation of the three-year rolling public expenditure program and
handling the large rise in aid commitments and external resource flows. To
meet this challenge, the Government is proposing to:
(i)  strengthen overall policy review and management of the Ministry
by establishing an economic policy unit reporting directly to the
PNDC Secretary (Minister);
(ii)  rationalize and strengthen the divisions responsible for
planning and economic analysis, public investment appraisal and
the overall public investment plan, the budget, aid coordination
and the monitoring of project implementation. This involves the
Budget Division, the International Economic Relations Division,
the Planning and Research Division, the Investment and Projects
Analysis Division, and the Central Project Monitoring Unit; and
(iii)  improve and rationalize debt management, particularly by its
decision to allocate the responsibility to MFEP and to improve
the flows of information between the MFEP, the
Accountant-General, the Bank of Ghana and other bodies.



- 26 -
72.       The Government has prepared plans acceptable to the Association
to deal with most of these issues. Budgeting and expenditure control
actions are being defined in the light of an IMF technical assistance
report, while UNCTAD is helping to define and implement the actions needed
to improve debt management.
73.       While the central responsibility for economic policy lies with
the MFEP, effective coordination of the adjustment program must also
closely involve sector ministries as well as other core agencies. The
sector ministries are being strengthened under UNDP and IDA financed
technical assistance projects, some underway and the rest under
preparation, over the next few years. Policy coordination needs to be
improved and put on a regular basis, with proper planning and procedures
rather than ad hoc consultations. With this in view, the Government has
decided to establish a national planning system with the primary focus on
strengthening government capacity to determine national priorities, and
assisting the decentralization process. A new Ministry of Planning is
proposed together with a high level Planning Commission. Thus the planning
functions of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning would be shifted
to the new ministry, while revenue mobilization, now under an autonomous
National Revenue Secretariat, would be brought back under the Ministry of
Finance. A special committee of the PNDC has been established to work out
the timetable and details of implementation. Assurances have been received
from Government that the new structure will be consistent with the objec-
tives of the structural adjustment program; that there will be a smooth and
gradual transition to the new system; and that the shape of the new
planning structure will be drawn up in consultation with the Bank and UNDP.
Under the SAIS project, the Government has agreed to give IDA the
opportunity to comment before any proposed major changes are made in the
organization, structure and functions of MFEP.
74.       A related issue is the capacity within the Office of the
Secretary to the Committee of Secretaries (COS) (equivalent to a Cabinet
Secretariat cum office of the Prime Minister) to deal with the many
economic responsibilities which fall to it--its cabinet office function,
its support for the Chairman of the COS (equivalent to the Prime Minister),
and its direct responsibility for functions such as state enterprise
reform, civil service reform, Cocobod and the public sector management
component under the structural adjustment program. The functions of the
National Revenue Secretariat--now to be shifted to the Ministry of Finance
(para 73)--have been reviewed by an IMF fiscal mission, and its
recommendations will be implemented over the period of the adjustment
program. Under the SAIS project the PNDC Secretariat will be strengthened
through the creation within it of an economic liaison unit with
staffing--one member for the PNDC itself and two for the Office of the
Chairman of the COS--and terms of reference already decided in consultation
with IDA.
75.       To prepare the Structural Adjustment Program, the Government
created a Structural Adjustment Program Team (SAPT) headed by the Chairman
of the COS, with the PNDC Secretary, MEFEP, as Vice Chairman, and the



- 27 -
latter's Deputy as Secretary. The team is responsible for (i) monitoring
and evaluating the progress of ongoing reforms as well as their impact on
the economy; (ii) initiating preparatory steps for further adjustment
measures; and (iii) liaison with the World Bank for periodic progress
reviews of this first phase of the program. The SAPT is supported by a
secretariat located in the KFEP which will have full time technical staff
who will ensure coordination of various SAL components on an ongoing basis.
A Project Management Unit (PMU) linked to the Secretariat has been estab-
lished to monitor SAL program implementation and manage the SAIS project,
headed by a PNDC Secretary who has been appointed.
76.       The Government will face a difficult task in assigning and
managing the considerable numbers of Ghanaians and others who will be
mobilized tmder the SAIS project to help implement the adjustment program.
The management of technical assistance (terms of reference, reporting
relationships, selection, contracting, assignment, logistics, etc.) is a
critical determinant of its productivity. It is almost impossible to
ensure this in Ghana at present through "normal" administrative channels
filled with other pressing business. Therefore, responsibility for manage-
ment of the SAIS project has been assigned specifically to ensure that it
can be done effectively. The PMU will be provided with adequate supporting
staff and facilities.
77.       Civil Service Reform.  The civil service suffers from low
salaries and understaffing at the higher levels and overstaffing at the
lower levels. Under the SAL program, action will be taken to address these
problems. To deal with the overstaffing problem, the Government has
announced a target of retrenchment of 15,000 public service employees per
annum in the 1986-1988 period. This is almost 5 percent per annum of the
318,000 such workers revealed by a census as of January 1986.   The Govern-
ment has approved the 1987 retrenchment program of approximately 15,000
public servants and will:
(i) remove from the payroll by May 31, 1987 about 6,700 surplus staff
already identified (instructions have already been sent to all
departments), and identify and remove from the payroll by
October 31, 1987 the remaining 8,300;
(ii)  establish a fiscally responsible compensation scheme together
with programs to retrain retrenched workers and assist them to
find productive employment in the private sector (see para 122);
and
(iii)  implement the retrenchment objectives for the later years via the
civil service staffing and functional review (see below). The
review is expected to identify additional surplus staff of which
up to 15,000 could be retrenched during 1988. Retrenchment of
15,000 public servants in 1987, and identification of candidates
for 1988, are conditions of second tranche release.



- 28 -
78.       In recent years the human resources and personnel systems avail-
able to the managers of the Ghanaian civil service have deteriorated. The
Office of the Head of the Civil Service is not adequately supported for
effective personnel management, and the quality of information about
numbers, functions and qualifications of Ghanaian civil servants has
declined considerably. One indication of these problems is the discrepan-
cies which developed between the nominal roll and the Accountant-General's
payroll as payroll mechanization was extended more widely in the civil
service. Without a good base of information, it will be difficult to
formulate and implement a coherent public service salary policy, implement
a sensible retrenchment pollcy beyond the first round and ensure that staff
are allocated rationally to priority tasks.
79.       To achieve better deployment and management of the civil service,
the Government needs to provide the public administration's managers
(especially the Head of the Civil Service) a reliable picture of the
present status of major ministries and agencies, their human resources and
functional responsibilities, and a nucleus of skilled and experienced
people to institutionalize inspection of staff and review of administrative
functions as a critical continuing task of civil service management. Under
the SAL program, the Government will follow up the 1986 census by con-
ducting a civil service staffing and functional review in 1987, and prepare
a staffing and training plan for the predominantly Ghanaian team which will
carry out the review and provide these skills on a continuing basis. This
will be one element in a comprehensive plan for strengthening OHCS in
consultation with IDA, and to be funded by ODA (UK) under the SAIS Project.
ODA will also fund a study of wage and salary policy and a review of the
Civil Service Act. Finally, UNDP will include in its forthcoming NATCAP
exercise for Ghana the preparation of a training plan for the public sector
including the strengthening of local institutions.
80.       Although salary decompression in the public service was begun in
1986, over the next few years the Government will face corninuing severe
problems in attracting and retaining highly skilled and committed profes-
sionals for public service. To deal with this important issue, the Govern-
ment will establish a skills mobilization scheme. The scheme has three
components. The first would provide supplementary remuneration to a small
number of civil servants engaged in crucial ERP/SAP work. The
supplementary payments are intended to be phased out once salaries and
managerial conditions have improved sufficiently in line with Government's
broader public service salary policy. A second component provides for both
short and long-term consultancies to Government by Ghanaians outside the
public sector at market rates. The third component involves financing
relocation expenditures for Ghanaians returning to take up civil service
posts. IDA will fund the second and third components under the SAIS
project.



- 29 -
MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM ISSUES
F. The Next Phase of Adlustment
81.       The agenda for reforms beyond 1988 will naturally be influenced
by the progress made in this phase of the structural adjustment program.
On the incentives side, the main focus will probably be to support the
objective to reduce the economy's present dependence on cocoa, particularly
by encouraging non-traditional exports, while taking more concrete measures
in the area of liberalization of the trade in cocoa. With the gradual
return of confidence in the economy, policies to encourage private savings
and investment will play a particularly crucial role in the future. The
main thrust of adjustment policies will continue to be in the area of
public sector reforms. Public expenditure policies will have to continue
to direct resources to rehabilitate key economic and social infrastructure.
The liberalization of trade is likely to have particularly adverse conse-
quences on state enterprises, and the acceleration of reforms of SOEs could
well become the centerpiece of adjustment efforts in the next phase. Civil
service reforms and public sector management issues will continue to be an
important component of the adjustment agenda.
C. Addressing the Longer Term Challenges
82.       Despite the overriding need to concentrate attention and
resources on achieving a structural adjustment of the economy over the next
few years, the Government recognizes the importance of addressing longer-
term development issues during this period. The following are some of the
more important long term issues for which policy responses are in various
stages of preparation:
83.       Poverty:  Although Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of
living compared with most West African nations, a recent estimate (1984)
places half the population of 12 million in absolute poverty. While this
estimate reflected the impact of the severe drought in 1984 and the situa-
tion has since improved considerably, there can be little doubt that the
severe decline in per capita real incomes and food availability caused a
sharp drop in the living standards for a majority of the population.
Within this fairly large group there are some who are particularly vulnera-
ble (see the more detailed discussion in Part III, para 123-126) such as
small-scale farmers, particularly in the northern area, and low income
urban dwellers. The structural adjustment program has a strong focus on
poverty alleviation, both through policies designed to restore growth
generally and hence to boost incomes for a wide cross-section of the
population, and through measures to be incorporated in the public expendi-
ture program which are aimed specifically at the vulnerable groups. To
assess the nature and dimensions of the poverty problem and identify more
precisely the target groups, the Government is embarking on a Ghana Living
Standards Survey (GLSS). Preparations for the survey are in an advanced
stage and it is expected that it will be in the field in July 1987 and
yield initial results early in 1988. The Government, however, is anxious
not to wait for the GLSS results to initiate anti-poverty programs. These



- 30 -
can be refined and better targeted later as information flows in on the
worst affected. Anti-poverty measures in advanced stages of consideration
or under implementation are of two types: direct measures to improve the
present income-earning capacity of the poor, and measures to revitalize the
programs for human resource development and hence to raise the productivity
of the lower income groups in the future. Under the first, income
generating projects for small-scale farmers in the northern areas and low
income urban dwellers are to be identified and prepared for support from
central government budgetary allocations to local governments, eventually
through a decentralized budget process. Consistent with this, the public
expenditure program also attempts to shift resources towards the neglected
northern savannah regions. In particular, the Canadian assisted Northern
Region Rural Integrated Project, the forthcoming IFAD assisted agricultural
project, improved north-south transportation via the Volta Lake, and the
Northern Grid Extension and Road Rehabilitation projects, assisted by IDA
and other donors: support economic and social infrastructure and services
to the north.
84.       Second, the present phase of the Economic Recovery Program puts
greater emphasis on the social sectors, especially health and education.
These are being supported though two IDA assisted programs, the $15 million
Health and Education Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. No. 1653) and the
$34.5 million Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. No. 1744). Measures
to develop human resources are designed to effect a rapid and lasting
improvement in the health and education status of the population. Under
the Structural Adjustment Program, the substantial increase in budgetary
allocations for these sectors and for water and sanitation (see paras
59-60) are intended to rehabilitate and expand facilities and reverse the
sharp deterioration in health and education standards. The redirection of
such expenditures is intended to rehabilitate and expand the access to
these services in the rural areas, especially in the remote and backward
regions, and improve the quality of services. Greater emphasis on primary
education and primary health care is expected to improve the earning
capacity of the poor in the longer term. Cost saving measures in education
resulting from a reduction in staffing levels, higher cost recovery and the
shortened length of pre-university schooling (from 17 to 12 years) will
generate substantial savings designed to expand and improve the quality of
services provided. Four significant changes are planned over the next six
years. First, non-salary recurrent expenditures are to be increased
substantially to enable improvements in the quality of education. Second,
the proportion of expenditures on primary and junior secondary education is
expected to increase from 44 percent to 62 percent of the total. Third,
the subsidy costs of education at secondary and university level (feeding
and boarding) would be largely shifted to parents who can afford it, making
the system more equitable. Finally, unit costs of educational inputs and
allocations of space and teaching resources would be reduced and
standardized, improving cost effectiveness, to allow expansion of
enrollments.
85.       The delivery of primary health care would be improved and
expanded through strengthened community outreach activities, the principal



- 31 -
beneficiaries being women and children, About 100 rural health stations
(half the total), 11 urban health centers in Accra and Kumasi, and selected
hospitals are to be rehabilitated; in-service technical and managerial
training is to be provided at all levels; the logistical system for the
cold chain for vaccines and distribution of supplies, drugs, and contracep-
tives is to be strengthened; and a management information system developed.
Cost recovery measures already introduced are expected to finance up to
15 percent of health sector recurrent expenditures and to ease pressure on
the delivery system. The Government intends to prepare a long-term health
sector plan which will be used to define a second phase of the health
sector program. The Health and Education Rehabilitation project supports a
number of nutrition-related activities in rural health stations and urban
health centers. It will also rehabilitate two referral hospitals in Accra
and Kumasi specializing in the treatment of malnourished children and
offering nutrition education and family planning advice to mothers.
Nutrition surveillance is to be strengthened in collaboration with UNICEF.
Nutritional support projects aimed at those suffering from severe malnutri-
tion (pregnant mothers and children under five) and food for work programs
are to be prepared in cooperation with UNICEF and included in the public
expenditure program. WFP support is also being sought in this area.
86.       Rapid population growth:  Ghana's demographic statistics are
discouraging. With crude birth and death rates of 49 and 10 per thousand
respectively, population growth would be massive were it not for extensive
emigration to neighboring countries and further afield. Although Ghana was
the first to establish an effective population policy in sub-Saharan Africa
as early as 1969, contraceptive practice is low (5 percent) and desired
family size is still large. In addition, the Government organizations
responsible for family planning became practically moribund. Voluntary
agencies have been the principal source of family planning information and
services, providing 60 percent of contraceptive coverage. Under the public
expenditure program, the goal is to increase coverage to 16 percent by
1988. The Ministry of Health is to take direct responsibility for family
planning services in the health sector and greatly expand its program; the
commercial sector is to use 3,000 outlets (assisted by USAID) to meet
nearly half the planned target; voluntary agencies, it is assumed conserva-
tively, would remain at their present levels. UNFPA is also to prepare an
assessment of the national population policy and a multisectoral plan for
population, human resources and development planning.
87.       Meeting the food deficit:  Based on the trends prevailing in the
late 1970s and early 1980s, Ghana is likely to face a substantial and
Increasing food deficit by the year 2000. To meet these deficits without
recourse to substantial levels of food imports would require foodcrop
output growth between 4-5 percent per annum; these levels exceed the most
favorable growth rate achieved by Ghana in the past (1961-71 of
3.9 percent). However, Ghana has a strong comparative advantage in
agriculture, in general, and in the principal food crops in particular, and
it would make sense to aim to reduce the projected food deficit to the
extent this remains consistent with its comparative advantage. The
required food output growth net of wheat (which could be imported) would be



- 32 -
attainable if Ghana could recapture the amount of acreage under cultivation
during the 1960s, and subsequently lost in the 1970s as declining
incentives reduced acreage under cultivation. The extent to which Ghana
could recover this lost acreage is, of course, limited by the increasing
fragility of soil due to rapid deforestation and desertification. Output
gains through increased areas under cultivation will, therefore, need to be
supplemented by substantial yield increases. Yields of principal crops are
far below their potential. This requires an investment in productivity
enhancing technologies in the food crop sector such as the use of
fertilizers, agro-chemicals, higher yielding seed varieties and improved
farming systems. The Government's agricultural sector strategy, to be
supported by a parallel IDA-assisted Agricultural Services Rehabilitation
Project (ASRP), focuses on the strengthening of agricultural extension and
adaptive research to stimulate the fuller exploitation of yield potentials
needed for the basic food crops (maize, cassava, sweet potatoes and yam) as
well as cash crop's that will permit the diversification of agriculture and
exports (see para 90). A pilot program in the central region is testing
alternative approaches to extension and adaptive research in food crops and
the experience gained will be extended to the rest of the country through a
national extension and research system. In addition, field adaptation
programs for improved planting materials are being developed for these
crops.
88.       Food Security:  The Government's approach to food security has
focused on (i) the high volatility of farmgate prices and (ii) the need to
protect food availability against the eventuality of a drought such as the
one experienced in 1982-1983. It has thus attempted to provide producers a
minimum support price through its purchases to relieve the downward pres-
sures exerted from localized gluts caused primarily by poor marketing
infrastructure and disruptions in roads and communications. Similarly.
through sales of foodgrains it wants to ensure minimum supplies to all.
While these represent primarily transitory issues, the longer term food
security issue is that even when there are normal harvests there are
pockets of people, particularly in the North, who do not have enough food
due to instability in the production, marketing and prices of food and to
the low incomes of these vulnerable groups. Under the ASRP, the Government
is undertaking a food security study with a view to formulating an afford-
able and cost effective program which can be supported by the World Bank
and interested donors. The program may consist of a mix of such instru-
ments as public and private stockbuilding, food aid management, active
promotion of trade and special relief measures. The study will review the
financial and technical soundness of completed and planned investment in
storage and identify and characterize the food insecure groups to set the
overall framework within which cost-effective options can be developed.
The Ghana Living Standards Survey (para 83) will provide the basis for
judgements on the longer term issue of food insecurity, i.e., the nature,
location and cause of poverty. The findings of the study will be discussed
with IDA and an agreed action program developed under the ASRP.
89.       Environmental issues:  The environmental consequences of rapid
population growth and the need to expand food production need to be studied



- 33 -
carefully. Much of the expansion in population and food production is
likely to be concentrated in the southern half of tho country where the
country's tropical forests are located. Rapid deforestation to accommodate
agriculture and meot the demand for the country's timber exports could have
severe agro-ecological repercussions which are not fully understood. The
replacement of forests by fooderops is likely to result in declining soil
fertility, due to soil erosion and loss of organic matters, particularly in
the caso of short fallow ulash and burn cultivation. A Forostry Sector
Review has been recently conducted jointly by the Bank, UK ODA, CIDA and
FAO. The review is expected to provide an assessment of the onvironmental
impact of current and alternative development strategies and to identify
policy and institutional support measures to strengthen forest management,
support rural forestry and agro-forestry rosearch, support the Wildlife and
National Park Project and to develop a sound program for the exploitation
of the country's forest resources consistent with environmental objectives.
90.       Diversification of exports away from cocoa remains a major goal.
While the thrust of medium-term policies will be to restore cocoa produc-
tion to its full potential, other sources of foreign exchange earnings will
need strong stimulation such as other tree and exportable crops and in-
creased earnings from timber, minerals, agro-industries, manufactures,
tourism and workers' remittances. Although exports other than cocoa and
minerals have been exported in recent years, their volume has been small
and the main motivation has been the earning of retainable foreign
exchange. The new exchange and trade regime will reduce sharply the
incentive to earn foreign exchange through unprofitable activities while
creating the potential for the exploitation of Ghana's comparative
advantage. Under its Economic and Sector Work Program, IDA will study and
develop, jointly with the Government, the International Trade Centre, and
UK ODA, the main components of a medium- to long-term strategy for export
diversification. The study will identify in as much detail as possible the
changes in production and marketing behavior of existing and potential
exports as well as the further policy reform, inf:astructure and other
support activities needed if this potential is to be realized. The results
of the study will be implemented and supported under future IDA operations.
91.       Manpower and institutional development:  Reversing the neglect of
Ghana's once well-endowed manpower and institutional base is clearly a high
priority. The Government took some early initiatives, establishing a
Public Administration Restructuring and Decentralization Committee to
address managerial and administrative problems in the civil service and to
begin the process of increasing the responsiveness of the bureaucracy to
local and regional needs. The adjustment program aims at strengthening of
the civil service by strengthening the Office of the Head of the Civil
Service and by dealing with the most pressing problems of inadequate
remuneration and overstaffing. Longer term institutional development is
being supported for a number of sectors by a series of IDA sector opera-
tions, while the education sector adjustment program attempts to reverse
the decline in educational services. The strengthening of the Government's
planning capability, in the first instance on the investment and economic
policy side, will itself strengthen the ability to develop a more coherent
long term response to institutional issues.



- 34 -
PART III - IDA'S ROLE AND THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Experience with Past Policv-Baued Lending
92.       The Bank has supported four policy-based operation. in Ghana
since the ERP war introduced. The first Reconstruction Import Credit
(RIC I) (Cr. 1393-CH, approved in June 1983) provided $40 million for the
priority import requirements of agriculture and transport. The Export
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1435-GH and F009-GH, approved in January 1984
along with a related $17.1 million technical assistance project) provided
$76 million to meet import requirements of the cocoa, timber, gold mining
and ports subsectors. The Second Reconstruction Imports Credit (RIC II)
and associated African Facility Credit (Cr. 1573-OH and A003-CH, approved
in March and September 1985 respectively), and related Special Joint
Financing from Germany (DH 16.6 million) and the United Kingdom
(05 million), are providing a total of $100 million for Import requirements
of the agriculture, mining, manufacturing, and transport sectors. Finally,
the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC) and associated African
Facility Credit (Cr. 1672-GH and A013-GH, approved in March 1986) provided
$53.5 million mainly to meet import requirements of ths manufacturing
sector. Disbursements took some time to start because of Government
inexperience with Bank procedures, but have since accelerated steadily and
are now fully satisfactory.
93.       The policy based operations were aimed at supplementing the IMF
stand-by arrangements by broadening and deepening the ERP through
agreements with the Government on the size and composition of capital
expenditures and the import program, improvement in producer prices and
other administered prices, the removal of fertilizer subsidies, the phased
elimination of price and distrlbution controls, the removal of pollcy
constraints to exports and the rationalization of state owned enterprises.
In addition, the credits provided assistance to the government to
rehabilitate key export oriented sectors and develop a policy framework for
structural adjustment. Thus, for instance, the trade policy work under
ISAC has provided the basis for the subsequent liberalization of trade
under the government's structural adjustment program.
94.       Overall the experience with policy-based lending in Ghana has
been good. Agreed policy actions have almost all been implemented and
mostly with little delay except for the most sensitive ones. Institutional
changes have by and large been achieved. The agreed studies b-.ve been
carried out too, albeit with more delay; and implementation of the
longer-term recommendations has often had to be left for a fol'ow-up
operation.  Finally, the projects have achieved their objective of
providing substantial amounts of quick-disbursing assistance to priority
sectors and providing vehicles for cofinancing with donors whose programs
in Ghana had come to a standstill and who were looking for avenues to
assist the ERP.



- 35 -
B. Background to the Proposed Operation
95.       Following an extensive policy dialogue in the context of the 1985
CEM, the Government prepared for submission to the November 1985
Consultative Group an outline of the policy framework covering the 1986-88
period 1/ which represented an emerging consensus between the Government
and IDA on the medium-term structural adjustment program. The considerable
economic and sector work and project financed studies undertaken jointly
with Covernment during FY85 and FY86 informed this policy dialogue and
helped convert the policy framework into a detailed action program for
structural adjustment. This included agricultural and industrial sector
reviews, a public expenditure review covering eight sectors in April-May
1985, a major study by external consultants on state enterprises which led
to the design of the SOE reform program, joint Bank-Fund missions on
resource mobilization and exchange and trade policy, and a number of
studies, particularly on the cocoa sector, financed under the Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Credit.
96.       Two IDA missions in November 1985 and February-March 1986 helped
the Ghanaian authorities integrate this preparatory work into Structural
Adjustment Program. An appraisal mission visited Ghana in July 1986. The
mission participated in a series of policy seminars organized by the
Structural Adjustment Program Team (para 75) attended by members of the
PNDC, PNDC Secretaries, key civil servants, and representatives of trade
unions, employers and the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution. As
a result of these seminars, the issues in each area were widely debated and
a consensus emerged on the policy framework. Negotiations were conducted
in the last week of February 19B7. The Structural Adjustment Program was
subsequently endorsed by the PNDC. The Letter of Development Policy (Annex
IV) outlines this consensus. A Policy Matrix is provided in Annex V.
Supplementary data appear in Annex III. The parallel Structural Adjustment
Institutional Support Project was appraised in November 1986 and negotiated
and endorsed together with the SAL.
C. The Proposed Financing Package
97.       Bank staff have worked closely with Government to determine the
financing requirements of the adjustment program and to put together a
feasible financing plan. The preliminary balance of payments projections
and assessment of financing requirements are based on the following key
assumptions: (i) world cocoa prices will continue to decline in real terms
over the medium term; (ii) the planned integration of the offic'al and
parallel markets in foreign exchange will eliminate the incentive to
1/   'Progress of the Economic Recovery Programme 1984-86 and Policy
Framework, 1986-88," prepared by the Government of Ghana in October
1985 for the November 1985 meeting of the Consultative Group for
Ghana.



- 36 -
smuggle and hence boost export earnings and encourage remittances from
Ghanaians abroad; (iii) payments arrears will be phased out in an orderly
manner; (iv) access to the international capital market will be limited
until confidence builds up in the continuation of adjustment policies and
in political stability; (v) concessional aid flows to Ghana other than from
IDA and African Facility structural adjustment lending will be maintained
in real terms at the levels attained in 1986; and (vi) Ghana will have
access to the Fund's medium-term facilities at a level sufficient to
substantially reduce net resource transfers to the Fund. These assumpt'ons
imply a modest recovery in imports from their present depressed levels, but
sufficient to permit the expected increase in investment and to meet the
targets for economic growth.
98.       Taking into account official projected current account deficits,
medium- and long-term amortization, IMF repurchases, arrears repayments and
other short-term liabilities, total financing requirements average $786
million per annum over the 1987-1989 period. Nearly 59 percent of this
amount will be financed from concessional aid flows.
Table 1: Projected Financing Needs and Availabilities
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Average
Financing Needs                          1987   1988      1989     1987-89
Current Account Deficit                   331    357       340         343
Official MLT Amortization                 166    189       185         180
IMF Repurchases                           161    235       161         186
Arrears Repayments                         26     72        73          57
Other Liabilities                          71    -36         0          11
Reserve Requirements                       -7     15        20           9
TOTAL                                748    832       779        786
Financing Sources
Grants                                    161    157       194         171
Long-Tenm borrowing                       267    310       293         290
IDA
Project                              (66)   (76)      (70)        (71)
Program                             (111)  (129)    (110)       (117)
Of which: SALs                     (58)   (87)      (60)       (68)
Other Multilateral & Bilateral          (90)  (105)    (113)        (103)
Net Private Foreign Borrowing
(incl. Direct Foreign Investment)         30     50        41         41
Non-Concessional                          151    112       103         122
Other                                     138    147       131         139
TOTAL                                748    776       762        762
FINANCING GAP                              -      56        17          24
99.       The main components of the financing package are indicated below:
(i) In addition to the proposed Development Credit of US$34 million
and the proposed African Facility Credit of US$81 million on



- 37 -
standard IDA terms, Special Joint Financing (SJF) under the
African Facility of about $35.5 million has been assumed. In
addition, Canada is considering parallel financing of
C$25 million in support of the program. The proposed credits and
SJF contributions, and C$10 million of the Canadian contribution
are expected to be disbursed over a 20-month period ending
December 1988. They would finance about 7 percent of Ghana's
imports of goods and 6 percent of its gross external requirements
in the 1987-88 period. Assuming successful implementation of the
first Structural Adjustment Credit, a second credit amounting to
approximately $90 million is envisaged for FY89, of which roughly
a third could be disbursed in 1988 and the balance in 1989.
Cii) The IMF approved a stand-by arrangement (SBA) for
SDR 81.8 million in October 1986, and drawings under the proposed
IMF Structural Adjustment Facility could total some $49 million
during 1987 and $33 million each during 1988 and 1989, subject to
approval by the Fund's Management and Board. The SBA is expected
to be followed by an Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
(iii) The pipeline of unutilized aid from all sources including IDA
is expected to total $860 million at end December 1986. Dis-
bursements from this pipeline are projected at $290 million
during 1987, $225 million during 1988 and $150 million in 1989.
New commitments of concessional aid for 1987-89, excluding the
Structural Adjustment Credit and associated Special Joint
Financing, from all sources are anticipated to average
$530 million each year, based on conservative projections of
recent past performance by individual donors. Disbursements from
these new commitments are anticipated at about $60 million in
1987, $140 million in 1988 and $277 million in 1989.
(iv) Disbursements from non-concessional borrowing averaging
$122 million are assumed in 1987-89. These are consistent with
the assumed commercial borrowing levels in the "With Adjustment"
Scenario described in para 114 below and merely imply new
borrowings at levels that cover amortization of medium-term debt.
No rescheduling of debt is explicitly assumed. However 12-month
oil credits are to be gradually phased out.
This would still leave an average financing gap of $24 million over the
1987-89 period. Filling this gap will be part of IDA's aid coordination
agenda for Ghana.
100.      Under the above financing assumptions, Ghana's debt service ratio
would fall from about 60 percent in the 1987-89 period to 37 percent by
1990 and 21 percent by 1995. The degree of concessionality in Ghana's debt
structure would increase from an average maturity of 28 years in 1986 to 32
years by 1995 with corresponding improvements in grace periods and average
interest rates.



- 38 -
D. Procurement and Disbursement
101.      The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used exclusively for
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports through the
foreign exchange auction in the Bank of Ghana. Procurement procedures have
been designed to permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring efficiency
and economy. Except for a few exclusions such as luxury and defense items
and foodgrains, any imports would be eligible for financing. Retroactive
financing would be limited to a maximum of US$23 million worth of items
paid for after January 1, 1987. Not more than US$20 million of the
proceeds of the credits would be used for petroleum imports. In view of
the above, imports below US$2 million by private entities and SOEs would be
procured in accordance with their normal procedures; the SOE procedures
would be acceptable to the Association. Imports worth US$2 million or more
in the private and SOE sectors and US$1 million or more in the Government
sector would be subject to international competitive bidding according to
Bank Guidelines. International suppliers are well represented in Ghana;
this, together with the ongoing auctLon system and trade liberalization,
should ensure an internationally competitive market in which importers can
be relied on to procure their goods and services from the most efficient
sources and to minimize costs. Imports by the Government sector below
US$1 million would be procured according to its procedures which are
acceptable to the Association.
102.      To facilitate procurement and disbursement, two special accounts,
one for the IDA credit and the other for the African Facility credit, would
be established in U.S. dollars at a comercial bank, on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association. Initially, $6 million of the IDA
credit and $30 million of the African Facility credit will be deposited in
the accounts. Applications for replenishment of the special accounts will
be submitted monthly, or when withdrawals equal one-third of the amount
advanced. Applications will be fully documented with respect to payments
against contracts of more than $1 million equivalent. Reimbursements for
payments against smaller contracts will be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure certified by the Bank of Ghana with supporting documents
retained for review by visiting missions. Annual audit reports will
include a separate audit of amounts withdrawn on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
103.      The proceeds of the proposed Credits would be disbursed in two
tranches as follows:
(a)  a first tranche of US$57.5 million (SDR 45.5 million equivalent)
would become available immediately upon effectiveness
(anticipated in May 1987);
(b)  the balance would be made available provided a review of perfor-
mance, around January 1988, determines that the conditions
stipulated in para 104 have been fulfilled.



- 39 -
E. Monitorable Actions
104.      The Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) describes the
specific measures that have been or will be taken during this phase of the
adjustment program. These measures are summarized in the matrix of policy
actions shown in Annex V. Disbursement of the second tranche would be
contingent upon satisfactory progress in implementing the structural
adjustment program, notably in completing the following actions in a manner
satisfactory to the Association and consistent with the objectives of the
program:
(i) announcement of the program and timetable for phasing consumer
goods imports into the foreign exchange auction and its Implemen-
tation according to the timetable as well as implementation of
related trade and tax reforms (para 45);
(ii) announcement of a cocoa producer price as agreed with the
Association for the crop year 1987/88, and agreement on the cocoa
producer price for 1988/89 (para 48);
(iii) implementation of agreed Cocobod restructuring measures for the
crop year 1986/87, and agreement on the COCOBOD corporate plan
for 1987/88-1989/90 (para 50);
(iv) agreement with the Association on the 1988-90 medium-term public
expenditure program (para 56);
(v)   divestiture actions initiated for at least 10 SOEs (at least 5
offered for sale including State Fishing Corporation; and liqui-
dation proceedings initiated for 5 inactive SOEs); (para 66);
(vi)   completion of corporate plans for 10 priority SOEs and
draft performance agreements based on corporate plans for 4 of
these 10 (para 67); performance agreement signed with Cocobod;
and
(vii) retrenchment of 15,000 public servants in 1987; and
identification of further surplus workers following, and subject
to, a staffing and functional review with a view to their removal
from the payrolls during 1988 (para 77).
105.      The Government intends to maintain the Structural Adjustment
Program Team that was established to prepare the SAL. The team would
monitor the implementation and impact of the structural adjustment program,
prepare future adjustment measures and liaise with the Association for the
purpose of reviewing progress under the adjustment program. The Government
would submit to the Association a report evaluating the progress made in
implementing the adjustment program since credit approval as the basis for
the mid-term review of the program scheduled for January 31, 1988 and the
release of the second tranche (expected in February 1988). The Association
has the option to cancel all or part of the second tranche if the



- 40 -
conditions for its release have not been fulfilled within 90 days after the
mid-term review. The Government would submit to the Association a final
report on the implementation of the adjustment program within six months of
the full disbursement of the credit.
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EFFECTS
F. Economic Effects
106.      Medium-Term Scenario:  As is clear from Part II, the Structural
Adjustment Program comprises a series of closely interlinked and mutually
reinforcing policy reforms which are designed to simultaneously stimulate
growth, investment and domestic savings. Table 2 illustrates a medium-term
scenario based on a full and timely implementation of the adjustment
program and relatively cautious assumptions about resource availabilities
and the likely supply response.
107.      The adjustment program aims at a growth of 5.0-5.3 percent per
annum in the 1987-89 period, and a sustained growth of 4-5 percent per
annum in the period through 1995. This is to be achieved through measures
to create an appropriate incentives framework for the private sector, to
increase the level of investment and to improve the efficiency of
investment. Exchange and trade policy reforms, which lie at the heart of
the adjustment program, are designed to price foreign exchange
realistically and thus to remove the bias against exports and to encourage
a more efficient use of foreign exchange. The accompanying liberalization
of trade and access to foreign exchange (through the auction) and the
dismantling of price and distribution controls will encourage fuller
capacity utilization both directly and through the shift in incentives from
trading to productive activities. Improved producer prices, particularly
for cocoa, will provide a strong stimulus to continued agricultural
recovery. The liberalization of trade will also stimulate the growth of
the services sector, as financial and communication services respond to the
further stimulus to economic activity.
108.      Investment is to increase from an estimated 10 percent of 1986
GDP at current market prices to 23 percent of GDP by 1989; the increase is
more modest in real terms, from 9 percent of GDP in 1986 to 16 percent in
1989 at constant 1984 prices. The initial impetus for this increase will
come from the public sector investment program. The substantial rehabili-
tation programs in the energy, transport and communications sectors are an
essential precondition for the resumption of sustained growth, as are the
higher allocations for operations and maifitenance in the recurrent budget,
which would increase the effectiveness of essential support to the produc-
tive sectors such as agricultural extension and research. At the same time
the effectiveness of public investment will be increased through a more
rigorous project evaluation machinery being established under the
adjustment program. The improved policy environment accompanied by other
measures (such as the Investment Code) to bolster private sector confidence
is expected to have a positive effect on private investment. Profitable
investment opportunities in exporting and efficient import substitution



- 41 -
GHANA
Table 2: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators
Annual
Average  Actual      Estimates              Projections
---.___-  -     -- -    ..           ---     _     -_
1980-83     1984     1985      1986     1987    1988       1989
  _                                                - -
Growth Rates
GDP                                   -5.1       8.6      5.1      5.3       5.0      5.3      5.3
GDP Deflator                         106.6       3.5     31.2     30.2      18.0    12.5       7.5
Percent of Market Price GDP
National Accounts:
Consumption                         96.5     95.1      95.7     92.3     89.8    86.7       85.0
Investment                           4.5      7.6       7.3     10.3     17.1    21.0      22.8
Private                             3.1      4.0       3.4      4.4      7.9    11.1      11.9
Budgetary Cap. Expenditures a/      1.4      3.6       3.8      5.9       9.2     9.9     10.8
National Savings                     3.9      4.7       3.1      6.6       8.5    12.2     14.8
Public b/                          -4.4     -0.4       0.1      1.7       3.2     3.5      3.6
Private                             8.3      5.1       3.0      4.8       5.3     8.7     11.2
of which: Foreign Transfers       0.0      1.0       0.5      0.9       1.3     2.0      2.8
Foreign Saving                       0.6      2.8       4.2.     3.7      8.6      8.8      7.9
Central Government Budget:
Total Revenues                       6.4      8.0      10.4     13.6      16.1    16.2     16.5
Total Expenditure                   12.2     11.8      14.1     17.0      22.8    23.6     24.4
* Recurrent                       10.7      8.4-    10.3      11.9      12.9    12.7     12.9
Capital                            1.5      3.4       3.B      5.9      9.2      9.9     10.8
Special Efficiency                 O.O      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.7     0.9       0.6
Overall Deficit                      5.8      3.8       3.8      4.1       6.6     7.4     .7.9
Balance of Payments
Exports of GNFS                      4.5      8.0       9.9     15.8      21.7   22.2      22.7
Imports of GNFS                     -5.4    -10.7    -12.9    -18.5    -28.6  -30.0    -30.5
Resource Balance                    -0.9      -2.7     -3.0     -2.6      -7.0   -7.7      -7.8
Current Account Balance             -1.6      -2.8     -4.2     -3.7      -8.6   -8.8       7.
Overall Balance                     -1.0      -1.6     -1.7     -1.1       2.8    3.0       2.5
a/ From 1984, includes State Enterprises capital expenditures financed
by external concessional assistance.
b/ Represents Central Government's savings only.
Source: Bank staff estimates (see Annex VI)



- 42 -
activities will increase as a result of the exchange rate reform and trade
liberalization. There will be less crowding out of the private sector,
particularly in relation to the banking system. The reduced role of state
enterprises will also expand the opportunities for private sector
initiative. At the same time the more realistic pricing of capital and
foreign exchange will help improve resource allocation and increase the
productivity of investment.
109.      The growth in investment is financed partly from a sustained high
level of concessional aid flows including SAL counterpart funds. But there
is to be a much larger increase in the level of national savings, both
public and private. Public savings are intended to play a significant role
in the recovery of domestic savings, due to a strong resource mobilization
program, based on the favorable impact of exchange rate policies, new
revenue measures, tax reform and improvements in tax administ"ation. The
unification of the exchange rate at the more depreciated auction rate in
early 1987 will result in a temporary windfall gain of cocoa revenues to
the budget, which alone will jump from 2.4 percent of GDP in 1985 to 4.3
percent in 1987. However, as producer prices are adjusted to pass on the
benefits of the exchange rate change to producers, the share of cocoa
revenues will decline; the reform measures at the Cocobod are designed to
reduce operating costs and help contain the impact on budgetary revenues
from cocoa until the efforts to reduce dependence on export taxes bear
fruit. Among measures designed to bring this about are a broad based sales
tax, reform of company taxation, and increased taxation of petroleum.
110.      On the expenditure side, recurrent expenditures are to rise only
moderately from their present share of GDP (12 percent). To attain this
objective, the dual and conflicting objectives of containing the wage bill
while increasing real incomes for senior civil servants are reconciled by a
program of staff retrenchment of 10-15 percent of the civil service. The
SOE reforms will also reduce the dependence of SOEs on the budget. Expen-
ditures on other goods and services will need to be raised to reverse the
past neglect of operations and maintenance expenditures; nevertheless,
strict expenditure controls will be needed to live within the expenditure
ceilings and realize the targeted current savings of 3-4 percent of GDP.
111.      Private savings are expected to respond positively, if relatively
modestly, to the financial sector reforms, which include attaining positive
real interest rates, the introduction of vehicles to mobilize small savings
and tap rising rural incomes, particularly of cocoa farmers, and tax policy
changes that stimulate savings and restore confidence in the banking
system. These will be supplemented by remittances from overseas which
respond to the unification of the parallel market and official exchange
rates with the merger of the official auction and SIL markets. Here again,
confidence building measures for the private sector, tax incentives, and
financial sector policies will play a key role (para 33).
112.      Longer Term Prospects.  The medium-term adjustment scenario
described above is intended to generate the momentum needed for sustained
growth in the longer term. The two alternative scenarios prepared for the



- 43 -
1985 CEK (Report No. 5854-GH) have been updated. The first sets out the
longer term outcome of a continued reform scenario; the latter describes
the probable consequences of a failure to make the further adjustment
described above. Table 3 summarizes the two scenarios. In the first
scenario (illustrated in the charts), sustained growth of around 4 percent
per annum is achieved, based on a strong performance of agriculture. The
adequacy of the incentives and a determined effort through improved exten-
slon and research services to raise yields closer to their present poten-
tial will be critical determinants for growth of food and industrial crops.
Cocoa production is expected to respond well to improved incentives. Near
term increases will come from improved husbandry, while after 1990, the
yield from hybrids planted during the 1970s and early 1980s will begin to
be felt. Timber production Is expected to recover to its previous levels
following the substantial new investments in rehabilitation currently
taking place.
113.      Growth in mining would be fairly rapid through 1990 (12 percent
per annum), and then decelerate to around 4 percent in the first half of
the next decade. Gold production is expected to recover by 1995 to some
570,000 fine oz. as against the present level of 286,000 fine oz. This may
prove conservative as new investment policies and the improved exchange
rate have greatly increased applications for gold prospecting licenses.
Bauxite and diamond output is also expected to respond strongly through
1990 to the stimulus of exchange rate policy and the rehabilitation
programs in this sector. Rapid growth in manufacturing is anticipated in
the near term from improved availability of raw materials and spares and
the substantial excess capacity in the sector. In the longer term,
improved incentives for efficient import substitution and exporting will
result in a shift in the structure of industrial production, requiring new
investments which would in turn depend on the overall climate for the
private sector. Manufacturing growth is expected to average 12 percent per
annum through 1990 before decelerating to around 5 percent. Growth of the
service sector is expected to be roughly in line with growth in GDP,
responding to the liberalization of trade, the substantial rehabilitation
investments in the transport and communication sectors and the generally
improved climate for the private sector.
114.      On the external side, export growth at nearly 6 percent per annum
in real terms between 1986-95 is made possible by the recovery of exports
other than cocoa from their presently depressed levels to their historical
past highs. Cocoa exports are not expected to recover to their past highs,
growing more modestly to about 300,000 tons by 1995. Non-traditional
exports will provide a strong stimulus for export growth in the early
1990s. Import growth will be contained at about 5 percent per annum in
real terms, initially growing quite rapidly with import liberalization, and
then decelerating partly on account of declining food imports. The current
account deficit is contained at 8-9 percent of GDP before declining to
4-5 percent by the end of the period and since this is largely financed by
concessional aid flows, the debt-service ratio declines over the period to
23 percent by 1995. The projected concessional aid flows conservatively
assume only a moderate (10 percent) increase in commitment levels over



- 44 -
1984-86 levels in real terms. With higher aid flows, a more vigorous
growth performance would be feasible.
115.      In the adjustment fatigue scenario the policy reforms
contemplated under the Structural Adjustment Program do not materialize.
In particular, there is an erosion of the gains in exchange rate policy,
agricultural incentives are allowed to decline, and trade liberalization
stalls. While the reforms to date provide some momentum in the short to
medium term, providing a false illusion of progress sooner rather than
later, the export momentum falters as cocoa production and exports
stagnate, and incentives for non-traditional exports become a constraint to
their expansion. The consequences for the balance of payments could be
exacerbated by the inevitable retreat of donors and other sources of
external capital as confidence once again weakens in Ghana. This would
erode the already limited import capacity and make the debt service burden
unmanageable, triggering off yet another downward spiral sparked by
recurrent foreign exchange crises.
Table 3: Two Scenarios (1986-95)
(annual average growth rates; percent per year)
(constant 1984 cedis)
Continued Reform    Adjustment Fatigue
Scenario            Scenario
Population                          3.0                  3.0
CDP                                 4.5                  2.6
Consumption                         3.3                  2.5
Investment                         13.2                  3.6
Exports                             5.5                  2.5
Imports                             5.3                  2.5
Per Capita
GDP                                 1.5                 -0.3
Private Consumption                 0.3                 -0.5
116.      Growth under this scenario averages 2.6 percent per year,
resulting in a decline in per capita CDP. Investment bears the brunt of
the failure to adjust; resources for public investment are eaten away by
much poorer revenue effort due both to poor policies and the lower growth;
private investment is adversely affected by the poorer climate for the
sector. The lack of investment in turn reduces the economy's future growth
potential. A further consequence of the failure to adjust would be an
increased dependence on food imports as food output growth in this scenario
is substantially below population growth.



-45-
Ghana's Economy: Performance and Prospects
(1975 - 1995)
Ghana: Performanco of GDP. Agriculture,                       Ghana: Extmnal Trade and Current
and Manufacturing                                           Account Balance
Actual             Projection                     AW UAL                  PROJECTION
O  1  e                                                                    oo-  =
£ '°"       /                                          Q GOP
e ~~~~~Agriculture                                    2e  -Ow. o
0
Mnomuf.             _                                               CURRENT ACCOUNT
1l75  1975  156   1954  1557  1590  11s9                  1973 1717It  1981 19819a51967 1981 1909119931993
Ghana: Ratio of Broad MQnoy (M2) to GDP                    Ghana: Exports t Cocoa and cocoa Products
25-                                                       400-
0
;20                                      /               300O
C                                       S             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACtual
5                                                       0  200
PROGRAM               o
10                                                        100-*
1977   1979   1981   19 191985   1987   1989               1973  1976  1979  1982 1985  1088  1991  1994
Ghana: Annual Inflation Rate                                  Ghana: Exports of Gold
150-                                                     23 S00.
ACTUAL
eE 20/0 
Actual
1400
PROGRAM                 *eooo 
.  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,V           , 0a
1978   1980   1982   1984  1986   1988  1990              1976 1978 1980 1982 1984 196 193 1990 1992 1994



- 46 -
C. Social Impact
117.      The prolonged decline in the economy through 1983, as noted in
Part I, caused a substantial reduction in per capita real incomes and food
production. While the majority of the population experienced a sharp drop
in its living standards over the period, the poorer groups, primarily the
rural population and the urban informal sector, were among those least able
to protect their position. Living standards were further eroded by the
debilitation and misdirection of public sector infrastructure investment
and programs in health, education, water and sanitation. The social impact
of the adjustment program needs to be evaluated in the context of the
social costs of a failure to adjust. In the absence of further adjustment
measures,the economic recovery experienced to date would falter, and the
economy would resume its downward decline with severe adverse consequences
for Ghanaians rich and poor.
118.      Under the Continued Reform Scenario, per capita incomes and
consumption will show a modest but steady growth through 1995. The im-
provement in producer incentives, the increase in levels of investment,
both public and private, and the shift in resources from urban to rural
areas and from traders to producers will enhance economic opportunities
throughout the economy, but particularly for small farmers, and substan-
tially increase employment opportunities in both rural and urban areas. The
shift in resource allocations within an expanded level of expenditures for
health and education towards primary health care and primary and secondary
education will bring substantial productivity gains to lower income groups.
In sum, the majority of the population is likely to be better off with the
policy reforms than without.
119.      The adjustment policies envisaged could have a potentially
adverse impact on the poor through (a) price changes resulting from ex-
change rate movements and petroleum taxation; (b) the retrenchment of some
30,000 workers from the civil service and some 20,000 from SOEs in 1987-88,
and (c) employment losses arising from the advrerse effect on inefficient
enterprises from the further liberalization of trade and related tariff
reforms. To the extent that prices of end products already reflect their
scarcity values--the marked deceleration in inflation during a period of
sizable exchange rate adjustment suggests this is indeed so--the price
impact of further exchange rate movements on the poor will be marginal and
declining in significance since the major adjustments in the rate have been
already achieved. Inflation is expected to decelerate further, helping the
poor.
120.      The reduction in employment levels from the public sector
retrenchment program may well be somewhat lower than currently targeted by
the Government. In the civil service, a staff and functional review will
determine actual reductions beyond an initial 15,000 based on a careful
study of staffing needs. Many ghost workers are included in those likely
to be removed from the rolls. SOE retrenchment will also be based on a
labor survey of key enterprises. The largest component of the SOE
retrenchment program is to come from the divestiture of cocoa plantations



- 47 S
owned by COCDBOD. These workers will likely find employment with the now
owners of these plantations or may obtain rights to the land themselves.
Similarly, the divestiture program for other SOEs will count towards the
overall target the Government has set itself. Moreover, the incomes of
most of the workers likely to be let go are so low that the only way many
survive now ia by "moonlightlng." Their departure will bring productivity
gains to both the public sector and the other activities which they pursue.
121.      Any employment losses arising from this or othor program compo-
nents must be set against the substantial employment gains expected from
trade liberalization, improved producer incentives and the higher levels of
investment in both public and private sector. In particular, the major
increase in public investment directed towards the labor-intensive mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of feeder roads and the highway network will
create substantial new employment opportunities. The substantial increase
in the road vehicle fleet will also bring large employment gains. However,
the main gains will come from agriculture, where daily labor rates already
exceed two to three times the minimum wage in the organized sector.
Moreover, in the past the informal sector in Ghana has shown a remarkable
capacity to absorb sudden large additions to the labor force, as evidenced
by the successful absorption of nearly 1 million returnees from Nigeria in
the 1982-83 period. This suggests that the economy should be able to
absorb the displaced workers from the public sector.
122.      Frictional unemployment will remain a problem; the Government's
proposed resettlement assistance programs will assist workers in a variety
of ways. While pensionable workers would be receiving both their pensions
anid one year's salary in cash for every 8 years of service as compensation,
and others would receive ex gratia cash payments, the Government intends to
assist them to shift to new occupations through a number of measures now
under consideration. These include retraining programs, an entrepreneur
development program, the allocation of divested state-owned farm land to
retrenched workers along with credit and technical advice, incentives to
contractors in the roads and highways sector to hire retrenched workers
under the cocoa and other feeder roads rehabilitation and maintenance
programs, WFP supported food-for-work and public work programs and credit
programs for self-employed schemes in livestock, fishing and other produc-
tive and service activities. The UNDP and ILO are to assist Government in
the design of the program. The budget for 1987 carries a provision of
%2,800 million ($19 million equivalent) for cash payments and
i1,400 million ($8 million equivalent) to initiate other programs; the
latter is expected to be supplemented by contributions from other donors.
The accompanying SAIS credit provides an allocation of $0.8 million to
assist in the design of the programs, and implementation of training
programs.
123.      Detailed and up-to-date household income and expenditure data are
not available to help identify the worst-off groups and to work through the
implications of the adjustment program for different population groups.
Such information as can be assembled suggests that rural households are
worse off than urban households as a rule in terms of incomes and the



- 48 -
availability of social services. However, subsistence farming households
are relatively insulated from prico increases. Among rural households,
those in the northern part of the country, including the Northern and Upper
regions, are the poorest. Moreover, they are the worst off in terms of
access to social services. Social indicators such as infant mortality,
life expectancy, tho crude death rate, literacy and primary school enroll-
ment confirm that thoy constituto some of the most deprived groups in Ghana
and will need special attention.
124.      Low-income urban households were clearly hard hit during the
period of economic docline; with shrinking aconomic opportunities, their
incomes were not able to keep up with price increases. A much lower
proportion of urban food consumption is home-produced, 6 percent compared
with 37 percent for rural households; as primarily consumers of food, the
urban population only feels the effect of food price increases on the
expenditure side. Within urban areas, the informal sector is worse off in
absolute terms than the formal sector; despite the collapse of real incomes
of civil servants, public sector employment rose rapidly, especially for
unskilled workers. The adjustment program should help raise formal sector
incomes directly in a period of relatively stable food prices, while the
informal sector will have to rely on general economic recovery and growth
for some positive repercussions on their economic environment. Thus the
urban informal sector will also require some immediate assistance.
125.      Nutritional studies and growth surveillance data have drawn
attention to the especially poor nutritional status of children under five
and pregnant and lactating women, with the northern regions again being
found to be the worst off in this regard. The urgent need for special
assistance to improve the nutritional status of these groups Is recognized
and a number of programs have been drawn up or are under consideration (see
para 85).
126.      The last official household survey for Ghana was conducted in
1974-75 and an improvement in the statistical base to increase the knowl-
edge of the extent and causes of poverty is planned as part of the adjust-
ment program through a Living Standards Survey to be launched during 1987
(para 83). The results of the survey will be used to monitor the impact of
the Structural Adjustment Program on the poor, with a view to making such
mid-course corrections as may prove necessary. In the meantime, the
Government feels that there is need to take immediate action, albeit on the
basis of out-of-date and fragmentary information, and to refine the program
when better data become available. The main components of the program were
described above (paras 83-85).
H. Risks
127.      The significant reforms already introduced since 1983, and the
economy's strong positive response to these have created a favorable
initial climate for the further adjustments now being envisaged. This has
been reinforced by the substantial aid pipeline built up over the past two
years, the expected availability of additional resources from the Fund and



- 49 -
the declino in crude oil prices which provides substantial relief to the
balance of payments. Ghana is, therefore well placed to embark on a more
vigorous program of reform, There are, nevertheless, at least four risks
associated with the program. These relate to: (i) the implementation
capacity of the Government; (ii) possible delays in the supply response to
the reforms; (iii) exogenous shocks from climatic or commodity price
behavior; and (iv) socLo-political risks.
128.      The Government's implementation capacity remains a key bottle-
neck. The adjustment program will impose a considerable burden on the
policy formulation and decision making capacity and on implementation
capability. The parallel Structural Adjustment Institutional Support
Project to strengthen public sector management is designed to reduce the
risks associated with implementation capacity. Its focus is on improving
the supply of trained Ghanaians from within and ourside Ghana to improve
and strengthen public sector implementation capacity, particularly in key
areas of economic and financial management. The institution of premia and
local consultancy arrangements as a means of improving incentives to work
for Government will assist this process. Training programs will be geared
to reducing dependence on external technical assistance. Cocoa sector
reforms will be assisted under the proposed Cocoa III project through
technical assistance to Cocobod. State enterprise reforms will be assisted
through technical assistance under the proposed Public Enterprise project.
Bank and Fund economic and sector work will supplement the Government's own
policy analysis. Moreover, all projects addressing rehabilitation
constraints are also addressing implementation capability through training
and technical assistance.
129.      Delays in the supply response could be triggered by a number of
factors. The two most important ones are liquidity constraints and infra-
structure bottlenecks. Major changes in relative prices have had and will
continue to have a severe impact on the creditworthiness of firms. The
sharp rise in input prices and relatively tight demand management have
squeezed liquidity ratios and enterprise cash flows, which are further
compounded by old and obsolete equipment, over-manning and lack of trained
manpower. Debt-equity structures have also been adversely affected.
Commercial banks have proved reluctant to extend credit to customers who
may have viable businesses but whose past performance and current liquidity
position are sources of concern. The liquidity constraint has been a
significant factor in past low aid disbursements. Bank and Fund staff have
been discussing this issue over the past year. Under the SAL policy
framework, the adequacy of liquidity and the measures needed to address the
problem will be periodically reviewed by Government. A proposed Financial
Sector Adjustment Credlt may address institutional constraints, and in
particular, the management and financial health of leading public sector
financial institutions.  Bank staff will continue to work closely with Fund
staff in discussions on credit ceilings. Infrastructure bottlenecks are
being addressed under a number of IDA assisted projects; nevertheless, the
projects are small in relation to needs and their implementation is subject
to a number of constraints. Tnis could impede the supply response in the
next year or two.



- 50 -
130.      Climatic shocks, such as another drought, or a fall in cocoa
prices below levels currently being projected could have a serious impact
on growth. Preliminary estimates show for instance that a decline in cocoa
prices of about 10 percent would result in an addition to the financing gap
in 1987-88 of about $50 million each year. If this additional gap were
financed on non-concessional terms, debt service ratios would climb by
5 percentage points to 65-75 percent, falling in 1990 to 45 percent.
131.      Last, but not least, are the socio-political risks.  In any
adjustment program of this magnitude, there are both gainers and losers:
moreover, the costs of adjustment can precede the benefits. In the
Ghanaian reform program, the main beneficiaries will be farmers, particu-
larly cocoa farmers, and exporters, and the losers will be the urban poor,
who are adversely affected by rising food and petroleum prices and those
newly unemployed as the Government and State-owned enterprises shed their
surplus labor and inefficient enterprises are unable to cope with the
competition from imports. The costs associated with price adjustments and
unemployment could, however, precede the gains.  There will then be consid-
erable pressure on the Government to reverse the policies or to compensate
low paid urban workers through large wage increases unrelated to
productivity gains.  For reasons bet out in paras 119-122, these risks need
not prove to be significant.
132.      The success of the reforms to date is partly due to the Govern-
ment's careful efforts to explain the rationale of the program to the
general public. Continued effectiveness in communications will be critical
to the success of the program. The Government recognizes that the costs of
not adjusting will be substantially higher than the costs of adjustment;
the sacrifices required in the short term will have a high pay-off.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
133.      Until March 1983 when lending was resumed after a hiatus of 18
months the Bank Group's assistance to Ghana was project or'ented with a
strong emphasis on export promotion and rehabilitation of basic infrastruc-
ture. Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling -US$189.7 million and 37 credits
totalling US$728.8 million (including three African Facility Credits for
US$62 million and a $6.3 million credit for the Northern Grid Extension
Project approved February 17, 1987). In addition, Ghana participated ir. a
Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three countries (Togo,
Ivory Coast and Ghana). An IFC investment of US$55.0 million in Ashanti
Goldfields Corporation was approved in June 1984. In addition, an IFC
equity contribution of $4.5 million to an oil exploration project was
approved in December 1986. Annex II contains a sunmary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits as of December 31, 1986.
134.       Following the introduction of the ERP there has been a major
shift in Bank Group strategy, which now has the following major objectives:



- 51 -
(a) to assist the Government through the Bank's economic and sector
work, technical assistance and program lending, to improve
incentives for production, to increase the efficiency of economic
management and restore in the medium-term a sound financial basis
for growth;
(b) to promote long-term development of the economy by underpinning
structural adjustment lending with infrastructure rehabilitation
and sector adjustment operations within a framework of
appropriate sectoral policies, the latter encompassing industry,
agriculture, education, and public enterprise; and
(c)  to contribute to improved aid effectiveness in Ghana by acting as
the focal point for aid coordination between donors and Ghana as
the Government strengthens its own planning and aid coordination
ability.
135.      Thus since April 1983, the Bank has approved a series of program
credits designed to provide critically needed imports, particularly to
export sectors and supporting economic infrastructure such as transporta-
tion. These included credits for export rehabilitation and related
technical assistance. The credits also laid the base for policy reforms in
critical areas such as cocoa producer prices and marketing, price and
distribution controls, and public expenditures.
136.      Energy has been a major focus of Bank Group lending to Ghana
(19 percent of commitments as of December 31, 1986). The projects include
three hydro power generation, three power distribution and, more recently,
rehabilitation of the power system. A project aimed at strengthening
Ghana's technical capacity to accelerate petroleum exploration was approved
in May 1983. Another project provides technical assistance and financing
of immediate requirements for rehabilitation of the petroleum refinery.
The second most important sector in the Bank Group's program in Ghana is
transportation (19 percent of commitments) with four road projects, a
railway rehabilitation project and a ports rehabilitation project. The two
Reconstruction Import Credits and Export Rehabilitation Project also
provided emergency imports to the road transport and port subsectors. The
Accra District Rehabilitation Project supports the transport subsector in
the Accra area as well as the strengthening of the administrative and
financial basis of the Accra City Council and the improvement of a poorer
section of the city. The Ports Rehabilitation Project will improve Ghana's
two major ports to remove major bottlenecks to exports. The projects
provide Eor institution building in highway subsector organization,
planning and maintenance, railway management and ports. A transport
rehabilitation project being prepared will continue institutional support
to the sector.
137.      In agriculture (14 percent of commitments), the main thrust of
the Bank Group's operations has been to assist the country in achieving
greater self-sufficiency in agricultural production, particularly food and
raw materials for agro-industries, and rehabilitating the cocoa subsector.



- 52 -
An agriculture rehabilitation project under preparation will focus on
sector policy coordination, sector planning, strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture, food security issues, pricing policy for crops other than
cocoa, privatization and strengthening of support services, and reform of
agricultural SOEs. A Cocoa III project also is being prepared, the main
components of which are research, input supply, and disease control; but it
would also support the actions on the cocoa producer price and
institutional reforms which are being addressed in the SAL. In the field
of water supply, three projects have increased and improved water supply in
the Accra-Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas, with the most
recent one helping to carry out emergency repairs and maintenance on main
water pipelines, and contributing to institution building. Two credits
have financed investments in manufacturing and agro-industry undertaken by
small and medium-sized enterprises. The recent Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit aims to improve capacity utilization through provision of
imported inputs and sectorwide adjustment measures, including trade
liberalization which will be broadened to cover all sectors in the SAL.
While most Bank Group lending has focused on financing supporting economic
infrastructure and rehabilitation, there is recognition of the need to
support the social sectors. A credit to meet urgent rehabilitation needs
in health and education is ongoing and a project to support the
Government's education reform was approved by the Executive Directors in
December 1986. Each of these involves actions to strengthen sector
planning and the sector ministries involved. In addition, a project to
support the Government's state-owned enterprise reform program, following
through on the actions in the SAL, is under preparation.
138.      The Bank Group is pursuing a two-fold strategy for strengthening
policy planning and public sector management in Ghana. At the macro level,
it is focusing on the core economic and financial management functions and
some wider issues of public sector (especially civil service) management
through the proposed SAIS pro4ect. At the sector level, it is pursuing the
strengthening of sector policy formulation, planning, coordination and
management. Both areas of action are being coordinated with UNDP, which in
a series of parallel or cofinanced projects is proposing to assist with the
SAIS project and is undertaking a series of sector planning projects, all
in close consultation with the Bank.
139.      The country's past economic difficulties have adversely affected
a number of Bank Group-financed projects. Dwindling Government revenues
have denied projects needed local financing, and the lack of foreign
exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported materials and spare
parts required for completed projects. The mass exodus of qualified
Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoralization, absenteeism and low
productivity among the remaining work force have also adversely affected
project performance. The unusually adverse conditions surrounding Bank
Group-financed projects and their generally poor performance have been
described in greater detail in Project Performance Audit Reports. Because
of delays experienced in the implementation of a number of Bank
Group-financed projects in Ghana, disbursement performance is behind
appraisal estimates. Annual gross disbursements over the four-year period



- 53 -
FY81-84 averaged about 20 percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments.
Through periodic implementation reviews, the Government and the Bank have
made efforts to improve the disbursement record, and performance in FY85-86
was substantially better. A Central Project Monitoring Unit established
within the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning in October 1985, has
proved to be very effective.
140.      Given the need to focus Ghana's public expenditures on high-
priority rehabilitation and maintenance and on adequate provision for
non-salary recurrent costs, improved aid coordination is nov assuming
increased importance. In this connection, the Bank has chaired the Ghana
Consultative Group meetings annually since 1983, organized an industrial
sector aid coordination meeting in May 1986, and co-sponsored with UNICEF a
similar meeting for the social sectors for interested donors later in
September 1986. During 1987 the Consultative Group will meet again in May,
and aid coordination sessions are planned for transport and agriculture.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
Fund Relations with Ghana
141.      Since the inception of the ERP, the Fund's Executive Board has
approved three stand-by arrangements and two Compensatory Financing
Facility (CFF) purchases by Ghana resulting in a total use of Fund credit
by end December 1986 of SDR 611 million or 299 percent of quota. The first
stand-by arrangement for SDR 238.5 million (150 percent of Ghana's quota
then in force) for a one-year period was approved on August 3, 1983,
together with a CFF purchase of SDR 120.5 million (75.8 percent of quota)
on account of a shortfall in exports during calendar year 1982. Ghana made
all purchases under the stand-by arrangement upon meeting the relevant
performance criteria and successfully completing two reviews--the first
successful program in Ghana for ten years. On August 27, 1984, the Execu-
tive Board approved a second 16-month stand-by arrangement for
SDR 180 million (88 percent of quota). Once again, Ghana made all six
purchases upon meeting the established performance criteria and
successfully completing two reviews. On December 4, 1984, the Fund's Board
approved another CFF purchase of SDR 58.2 million (28 percent of quota) on
account of a shortfall in exports and an excess in the cost of cereal
imports for the 12-month period ending May 1984.
142.      A third stand-by arrangement equivalent to SDR 81.8 million
(40 percent of quota) was approved on October 15, 1986. The stand-by could
be followed by a medium-term program supported by Fund resources under the
Extended Fund Facility and the Structural Adjustment Facility. The
stand-by covers a 12-month period ending October 14, 1987. The first two
of five equal purchases of SDR 16.36 million have been made upon Board
approval and meeting end-September 1986 performance criteria; a third
purchase was expected to be made upon meeting the end-December performance
criteria and completion of a review with the Fund. Since the performance



- 54 -
criteria were not met (para 21-22), the third purchase will now be made
along with the fourth purchase upon meeting the end-March 1987 performance
criteria. The policy framework under the current stand-by arrangement
includes, inter alia, the institution of the foreign exchange auction
system in September 1986 for specified transactions, the unification of the
fixed and auction rates on February 20, 1987, and increases in interest
rates. It establishes limits on the contracting of non-concessional
external debt, targets for the reduction of external arrears and objectives
for net foreign assets and domestic credit expansion. Fiscal policies
include targets for bank borrowing and the overall deficit, and measures to
convert the windfall profit on petroleum into a specific excise duty. The
Fund program supports the Government's structural adjustment program
described in this report, focusing in particular on exchange and trade
liberalization as well as domestic resource mobilization issues through
interest rate policy and revenue measures.
143.      With the large recourse to Fund credit in the early years of the
ERP, substantial repurchases are now falling due.  Fund charges and repur-
chases (assuming no new arrangements beyond the present stand-by) will
climb from $77 million in 1986 to $208 million in 1987, and $278 million in
1988 before declining to $195 million in 1989, $127 million in 1990 and
$85 million in 1991. Net transfers to the Fund could however be substan-
tially lower in the context of a three year program under an Extended Fund
Facility supplemented by purchases under the Structural Adjustment Facility
now under discussion between the Government and Fund staff. Under the
latter Facility alone, Ghana would be eligible to request drawings of
SDR 96 million over three years. Ghana has no overdue obligations to the
Fund.
Bank-Fund Collaboration
144.      Collaboration between the Bank and Fund staff has been good, both
in the field, where there have been parallel and joint missions, and where
the Bank's Resident Mission is in close touch with the Fund Resident
Representative, and at headquarters, where there are frequent
consultations. The staff of the two institutions have worked extremely
closely with the authorities in designing the structural adjustment
program. The Fund staff have focused in particular on exchange and trade
policy, fiscal and domestic resource mobilization issues and external debt
management, while the Bank staff have focused on incentive policies
including cocoa policy and trade liberalization, and public sector reform,
including public expenditure policy, state enterprise reform, and public
sector management. A draft Policy Framework Paper for the proposed IMF
Structural Adjustment Facility is under preparation and will provide the
framework for Ghana's recourse to medium-term IMF facilities, now under
discussion. It will be discussed jointly by the staff of the two
institutions with the Chanaian authorities during a mission planned in June
1987. Fund staff also anticipate initial discussions on an Extended Fund
Facility to begin in June and be completed in August 1987.



- 55 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
145.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association. I an also satisfied
that the proposed African Facility Credit would comply w'th Resolution No.
IDA 85-1 adopted on May 21, 1985 by the Executive Directors of the Associa-
tion.
146.      I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and the proposed African Facility Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 23, 1987



ANNME I
- 56-                                Page I of 2
GHAN
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 19853 US$390 I1
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1985                                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(t Constant Prices)
Cedis Nil.              I                     1979-84
CDP at Market Prices                           372,982              100.0                      -2.5
Gross Domestic Investment                       27,094                7.3                       -8.3
Gross National Saving                            11,539               3.1                       -3.3
Current Account Balance                         15,555                4.2                        --
Export of Goods, NFS                            36,931                9.9                     -10.9
Import of Goods, NFS                            48,153               12.9                     -11.8
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
Output in 1985                             Labor Force, 1983
Cedis Mil.              _               Nil.           %
Agriculture                                    153,373                41.1           2.584           57.2
Industry                                        57,651                15.4           0.691           15.3
Services                                       161,959               43.5            1.242           27.5
4.517         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1985                                 1986
Cedis Nil.        % of GDP           Cedi. Nil.       % of GDP
Total Revenue and Grants                  40,311             10.8               73,625            14.4
Total Expenditure and Net Lending         47,891             12.8               73,326           14.3
Overall Deficit (-)                       -7,580             -2.0                  299              .1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977    1978   1979   1980     1981      1982     1983     1984      1985
Money and Quasi-money 2/        3,044   5,131  5,942  7,949   12,029   14,837   20,497   28,552   44,987
Bank Credit to Government       3,203   5,636  4,903  6,518   10,649  f1,057   21,059   22,819   24,825
Bank Credit to Private Sector    560      739    796    940    1,342    1,558    2,841    6,104   10,517
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-money as
t of GDP 2/                     27.3    24.4   21.1  19.4       15.7     16.7     10.7     10.2      12.8
General Price Index
(1977-100)                    100.0   173.1  267.3  401.2    868.6  1,062.4  2,357.4  3,304.2  3,647.2
I/ Atlas Methodology.
2/ Includes primary banks only



ANNEX t
-57~                               Page 2 of 2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1983-86))
1985       3.86 1/
(USS Million)                                    USS Million
Trade Balance                     -95          -7        Cocoa Beans & Products        397           65.8
Exports f.o.b.                  632         773        Gold                          101          16.8
Imports c.i.f.                  727         780        Residual Oil                   24           4.0
Timber                         28           4.6
Invisibles (Net)                 -188       -186         Electricity                    29           4.8
Services                       -220       -235         Manganese                       8            1.3
Transfers                        32          '9        Diamond                         4            0.7
All Other Goods                12            2.0
Current Balance                  -283        -193
Total                         603          100.0
Capital Account
Grants                          105        115
Official Capital (Net)           32          88        EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 1985
Private Capital (Net)             5         18
Capital n.e.s. 2/                24         -84                                             USS Bll.
Overall Balance                  -117         -56        Total Outstanding and
Disbursed M&LT                        1.2
Net IMF                           122          17
Arrears Payments                  -57           4
Other                              33
Gross International
Reserves (End of Period)        145        172
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1986 3                %
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                            Total Outstanding and
USS1 - p1.15                                     Disbursed MS=                               47
Since Aug. 26, 1978   US$1   - ¢ 2.75
Since April 21, 1983   USS1   - ¢24.69
Since Oct. 10, 1983    USSI  - 03000                    IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 31, 1986)
Since March 25, 1984   USS1   - ¢35.00
Since August 25, 1984  US$1  - 038.50                                                   IBRD         IDA
Since December 3, 1984 USS1   - ¢50.0O
Since April 19, 1985   USS1   - ¢53.00                   Outstanding & Disbursed       112.77      422.34
Since August 12, 1985  USS1  - ¢57.00                    Undisbursed                     0          352.59
Since Oct. 7, 1985     USS1  - ¢60.OO                    Outstanding, incl.
Since Jan. 11, 1986    USS1  - ¢90.00                    Undisbursed                   112.77       774.93
Since Sept. 19, 1986
Second Windov Auction US$1   - ¢128-155
1/ Estimates.
2/ Includes errors and omissions.
3/ As % of exports of goods and non-factor services (includes IMP debt).
March 18, 1987



-58-                                      ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPELATIONS IN CHANA 1J
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1986)
Loan or                                                                                       Amount (US$ Million) 2/
Credit           Fisal                                                                          Less Canoellation
Number            Year            Borrower                  Purpose                Bank           IDA        Undiabursed 31
Ten loans mnd fifteen credLts fully dLabursed                                       189.70         166.21
1009-CH            1980      RepubiLc of Ghana   Volta Region Agr. Dev.                             29.50          17.20
1029-OH            1980      Republic of Chana   Third Hlghway                                      25.00           D.12
1170-OH            1981      Republic of Ghana   Railway                                            29.00           5.61
1327-CH           1983       Republic of Ghana   ReconstructLon CrMAO                                9.30          10.52
1342-GH           1983       RepublLc of Chana   Water Supply                                       13.00           4.16
1373-GH            1983      Republic of Ghna   Energy Project                                      11.00           8.18
1435-CH           19B4       RepublLc of Chana   Export RehabiLitation                              40.10          14.58
F009-CH            1904      Republic of Ghana   Export RehabiLitation                              35.90          19.82
1436-CH            1984      Republic of Chana   Export RehabiLLittion
TechnicaL Assistance                            17.10           7.62
1446-CH           19B4       Republic of Ghana   Petroleum RefLnery Rehab.
and TechnieaL Assistance                          6.90          4.68
1498-GH           1984       Repubilc of Ghana   Second OIL Palm                                    25.00          21.81
1564-GH            1985      Republic of Ghana   Accra Dlstrict Rehab.                              22.00          20.17
1573-GH            1985      Republic of Ghana   Second Reconstrucrion
Imports Credit                                  60.0D          17.90
A003-GH            1985      Republic of Chana   Second Reconstruction
Imports Credit                                  27.00          13.58
1601-GH            1983      Republic of Ghana   Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance                                     40.00          42.82
A001-CH            1985      Republic of Ghana   Road Rehabtiltation and
MaLntenance                                     10.00           9.91
1628-GH            1986      Republic of Ghana   Power System
RehabLlitation                                  28.00          29.73
1653-CH            1986      Republic of Chun   Health and Education
RehabilltaLLon                                  15.00          13.56
1672-CH            1986      Republic of Ghana   Industrial Sector
Adjutment Credit                                28.50          13.17
A013-CH            1986      Republic of Ghana   Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit                               25.00          18.44
1674-GH            1986      Republic of Ghana   Ports RehabilitatiLon                              24.50          24.16
1744-GH            1987      Republic of Ghana   Education Sector
Adjustment Credit                               34.50          34.50 41
Total                                            189.70         722.51         352.24
of which has been paid                            76.95           5.48
Total now outstanding                            112.75         717.03 ~
Amount soLd                          0.40
of whLch has be                      0.40           0.00          O.OD
0.00
Total now held by Bank   r IDA                   112.35         717.03
Total UndLsbursed                                   0.00        352.24         352.24
11  The status of the projects listed in this part is descrLbed in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-fLmanned
projects £n execution, which ia updated twice yearly and circulated to the ExecutLve Dlrectors on
April 30 and October 31
2/ Prlor to exchange adjustmnts.
3/ Calculaced at the exchange rate applicable on December 31, 1986.
4/ Not yet effective as of December 31, 1986.



- 59 -                ANNEX III
GHANA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the program         8 months
(b)  Appraisal mission                        July 1986
(c)  Completion of negotiations                February 1987
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness            May 1987
Section 1T - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to February 1988, or other agreed date, the Bank will review the
Government's progress in implementing the structural adjustment program
(para 105).
Section III - Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory
progress in carrying out the structural adjustment program, in particular
(para. 104):
(1)  (a) announcement of program and timetable for phasing
consumer goods imports into the foreign exchange auction and
its implementation, and (b) implementation of related trade
and tax reforms;
(ii) announcement of an agreed cocoa producer price for 1987/88
and agreement on the price for 1988/89;
(iii)  implementation of Cocobod restructuring measures in 1986/87
and agreement on its 1987/88-1989/90 corporate plan;
(iv) agreement with the Association on the 1988-89 public
expenditure program;
(v)  initiation of divestiture actions for selected SOEs:
putting up for sale 5 SOEs, including State Fishing
Corporation, and initiation of liquidation proceedings for 5
inactive SOEs;
tvi) completion of corporate plans for 10 priority SOEs and draft
performance agreements for 4 of these, and signing of
performance agreement with Cocobod; and
(vii)  retrenchment of 15,000 public servants in 1987, and
identification of further surplus public servants for
removal from the payroll in 1988.



-60 -                        ANNEX IV
b ns  qr q/t ~ _   MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
tZ AOw                                                  ECONOMIC PLANNING
P.O. BOX MAM
* a                                              ~~~~~~~~~ACCRA
ygm. ,,*...   -RhluJoraWM                                        March 2,            87
GHANA STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
LETTER OF DEVELOPMT POLICY
Mr: Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Conable,
Re: Ghana's Structural AdJustment Programme
1.        As part of its Economic Recovery Programe (ERP), the Government
of Ghana has decided to implement a program-e of structural reforms of the
economy. By this letter, the Government of Ghana requests from the
International Development Association a first Structural Adjustment Credit
to support the implementation of the first phase of the programme.  To this
end, let me briefly recapitulate the reforms already undertaken under the
Economic Recovery Programme since 1983, the objectives of the Structural
Adjustment Programme (SAP), the actions taken to date and those planned
during this first phase (1987-88) of the SAP.
Background
2.        After a prolonged period of economic decline, the present
Government on assuming power on December 31, 1981, decided to reverse the
erosion of the country's economic and social foundations. The ERP was
formulated in late 1982 and announced in April 1983.  The programses major
objectives have been: (a) the realignment of relative prices in favour of
productive seccors; (b) the restoration of fiscal and monetary discipline;
(c) reversal of the severe erosion in the country's productive base and its
economic and social infrastructure; and (d) the encouragement of private
savings and investment. The programme has been supported by the IMF
through successive Standby Arrangements. The third such Arrangement went
into effect on October 15, 1986. As you are aware, IDA has supported the
reform programme with two Reconstruction Import Credits, an Export
Rehabilitation Credit, and an Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit.
3.        The major elements in the policy reforms introduced through
June 1986, under the ERP include, inter alia, a substantial depreciation of
the exchange rate from C2.75-US$1.00 in April 1983 to t90-US$1.00 in
January 1986. the liberalization of imports not requiring foreign exchange



- 61 -                 ANNEX IV
Page 2
from official sources (under the STL system), the establlshment of export
retention schemes, harmonization of the tariff structure, a seven-fold
increase in cocoa producer prices, prompt adjustments in administered
prices to reflect changes in the exchange rate, the restoration of positive
real interest rates, the dismantling of price and distribution controls,
substantial upward adjustments in public sector salaries to boost morale
and restore incentives in the civil service, retrenchment by the Cocoa
Marketing Board (Cocobod) of some 16,000 employees and elimination of a
further 25,000 ghost workers, a sizeable additional resource mobilization
effort which has permitted a reduction in the overall budget deficit and
the virtual elimination of inflationary bank borrowing, and the
establishment of an Investment Code to encourage private domestic and
foreign investment. These macro-economic reforms have been supplemented by
sector specific rehabilitation programmes with a heavy focus on exports and
the economic infrastructure associated with exports.
4.        The ERP has already achieved a considerable measure of success in
terms of increases in real GDP and reductions in the rate of inflation.
Specifically, real GDP grew by 6.3 percent per annum during 1984-86 led by
the recovery in agriculture following the severe drought of 1982-1983. The
overall budget deficit has been contained at around 2 percent of GDP and
overall credit expansion through September 1985 met Fund performance
criteria established under the first two Standby Arrangements. This strict
fiscal and monetary discipline, accompanied by the decline in food prices
following successive good harvests, has greatly moderated inflation, which
fell from 122 percent in 1983 to 25 percent in 1986. Exports and imports
have recovered, albeit modestly, from their excessively depressed levels in
1983. The sharp increase in cocoa production in 1985/86 reflects, in our
view, the quick response of our cocoa farmers to the improved incentives
being provided to them. Our rehabilitation programmes for road and rail
transportation, assisted by the World Bank and other donors, have already
significantly reduced the severe bottlenecks experienced in 1983 and 1984
in evacuating cocoa, timber and mineral exports. The increased supply of
spares, batteries, and tyres has substantially increased capacity
utilization in goods transport by road, and this is being supplemented by
the replacement of aged equipment. The improved performance of the western
railway line has been a particular source of satisfaction to us. Ports
remain a significant bottleneck, but we have recently successfully
negotiated an $80 million ports rehabilitation project jointly with the
Government of Japan, the Saudi Fund, the EEC and the World Bank. In sum,
the severe scarcities that had marked the 1982-84 period have almost
disappeared; stocks have recovered to more normal levels and consumer goods
are available in plenty, albeit at prices which many of our people find
difficult to afford. Nevertheless, this improved supply situation has
enabled us to further liberalize price and distribution controls, while at
the same time gradually improving the purchasing power of our people.
5.        Had it not been for the severe drought that gripped the country
in the first 15 months after the launching of the ERP and the necessity of
absorbing some 1 million returnees from Nigeria, we are convinced that the
economy's response would have been even stronger. These additional



- 62 -                 ANNEX IV
Pago 3
complications forced us to devote our attention primarily to crisis
management and the stabilization objectives of the ERP. We nevertheless
persisted wlth and expanded the scope of our reform programme despite
severe odds, and this resolve has paid rich dividends. We havq, however,
for some time been acutely swarm of the need to broaden and deepen the
reforms initiated under the ERP so as better to address the structural
weaknesses that have been revealed in the uneven response of the economy to
the programme. Moreover, now that the growth process has begun to get
underway, we have extended the focu3 of our attention to sectors such as
education and health. While we propose to continue with the main thrust of
our Economic Recovery Programme, we wish to fully integrate it with the
programme of structural reforms that Is outlined below. We are attempting
to ensure a comprehensive and internally consistent approach that deals in
a systematic manner with all major areas of economic performance. At the
same time we are only too aware of the severe administrative and managerial
bottlenecks that have constrained our ability to accelerate the pace of
implementation or to monitor performance. It is, therefore, important that
any programme of reform has high on its agenda the strengthening of our
capacity for implementation. We recognize that the structural adjustment
required will take the better part of a decade to bring about: the
programme we outline here initiates this process by building on the
progress already made under the ERP and laying a sound foundation for the
further adjustments required.
Objectives of the Structural Adjustment Programme
6.        The proposed Structural Adjustment Programme has the following
major objectives:
(i) Ensure sustained economic growth at around 5-6 percent per
annum through further improvements in incentives accompanied by sector
rehabilitation. In the area of incentives, the principal instrument to
attain the growth objective will be exchange and trade policies. We
propose to allow the exchange rate to be progressively determined by market
forces. At the same time, we have already removed almost all quantitative
restrictions on imports and are in the process of putting into place a
structure of tariffs and indirect taxes on imports that provides greater
uniformity of effective protection. Among other incentive policies, the
few remaining price controls will be progressively removed as the
availability of goods improves further. Host agricultural producer prices
remain market-determined and it is our intention to ensure remunerative
producer prices for the few remaining crops for which prices are
administratively set.
(ii) Stimulate a substantial increase in the levels of savings
and investment in the economy. We propose to encourage private savings,
which are currently at very low levels, by restoring confidence in the
financial system and banking institutions, through tax policies that
encourage savings, by reducing bank operating costs, by taking measures to
improve the financial and managerial structure of state-owned banks, by
ensuring confidentiality in the relationship of banks with their clients,



-63 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 4
and by continuing our present policies of providing positlve real interest
rates for time deposits. We recognize that this will need to be
supplemented by measures to encourage the many Ghanaians overseas to direct
thelr remittances through official channels. The further reforms planned
for the foreign exchange regime3 together with a package of incentive
policies designed to attract remlttances, which we are developing in
consultation with the Association and the IMF, will, it is hoped,
facilitate this process. Public savings, which have been consistently
negative until the launching of the ERP, will also play a significant role.
An DTF fiscal policy mission made a number of proposals to improve the
buoyancy and elasticity of the tax system. 1Zany of these proposals have
been implemented during 1986 and in the 1987 budget. The reforms of
state-owned enterprises, discussed below, will help reduce the drain on the
budget. As for investment, the Government intends to take advantage of the
generous response of the donor community to help supplement its own
resources to finance a substantial increase in public investment to be
directed primarily at the rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructure. At the same time, the Government will continue to
endeavour to create a favourable environment for the private sector to
ensure an adequate increase in investment in the rehabilitation of the
productive sectors.
(iii) Place the balance of payments on a sounder footing. The
principal instruments to achieve this objective will be the exchange and
trade policies described below, accompanied by measures that have been
outlined in my letter of industrial policy to Hr. Clausen of 21 February,
1986, that are designed to remove impediments to exports. It is also our
intention to pursue a prudent borrowing strategy and to take a number of
measures that would ease the present high burden posed by our borrowings to
finance oil imports and our efforts to reduce payments arrears. These
measures will be part of the reforms envisaged under the proposed
medium-term arrangements being discussed with the UTF.
(41) improve the management of resources in the public sector.
The principal instruments to achieve this objective will be the public
expenditure programme, the reforms of the state enterprises sector, and
specific initiatives to improve public sector management and introduce
civil service reform.
7.        As is apparent from the above, the objectives and the instruments
designed to attain them together constitute a closely inter-related
programme. Success dependa on simultaneous progress on multiple fronts.
It is for this reason that we are seeking support simultaneously from both
the Bank and the Fund, and through these institutions, from the larger
donor comunuity. For the programme to succeed, it will need substantial
and well coordinated external support for all its various components. We
have jointly with your staff developed detailed action programmes in five
areas for which we are seeking support in the form of the Structural
Adjustment Credit. These are: (a) trade policies, (b) cocoa sector
policies, (c) public expenditure policies, (d) state-owned enterprise
reforms, and (e) measures to strengthen public sector management. In



ANNEX IV
Page 5
addition, we are developing a set of policy actions to address social
concerns associated with structural adjustment. Attachment 1 co this
letter lists the policy reforms to be supported by the SAL. Attachment 2
summarizes the macro-economic framework underlying the programme.
Trade Policy Reform
P.        An open trade regime has long been an objective of the
Government, and extensive, often difficult reforms of trade policy have
been introduced over the past three years. There are now no controls on
trade since special import licences (SIL) are provided automatically for
"own funds" imports of almost any goods.  However, liberalization of
imports requiring official exchange was constrained during the difficult
process of adjusting the exchange rate towards a level at which demand for
and supply of foreign exchange are in balance. Until recently this aim had
not yet been achieved, and administrative rationing of official exchange
continued to constrain imports of raw materials and spare parts for
domestic producers without access to retained export proceeds or the
parallel market. Since informing Mr. Clausen in February 1986 that a
Working ;roup had been charged with developing detailed proposals for
easing rc,trictions on imported inputs for industry and other productive
sectors, the Government has established a new foreign exchange market in
which the rate is determined by auction. The new market was activated on
19 September 1986. This exchange reform has enabled the conversion of an
import licencing regime which sought to ration scarce foreign exchange
among goods and users into one which merely identifies categories of
imports according to the source of foreign exchange to pay for them, i.e.
unofficial ("own funds"), tied aid, direct allocation or auction.
9.        To enable the auction to set market exchange rates close to
equilibrium, direct allocation has been eliminated with effect from October
1986, for all private and parascatal imports. The transactions outside the
auction and SIL markets are: (i) the Central Government's imports of goods
for its own use and of crude oil and bulk grains for resale, (ii) imports
under tied project or commodity aid and counter-trade agreements,
(iii) imports funded by retention accounts, (iv) the very short list of
items for which neither SILs nor auction funds are available, and (v) those
imports which must be regulated for non-trade reasons. Since the
unification of the two official exchange markets on February 20, 1987,
petroleum, essential drugs, and the amortizacion of debt incurred prior to
January 1986, cocoa, and residual oil export earnings will also be
converted at the auction rate. Thus, all transactions are now accounted at
the rate determined in the auction. This determination occurs by the
interactiun of supply and demand of private and parastatal importers of
productive inputs and a few consumer items for which import licences are
issued automatically. The Government promulgated the list of goods which
are not initially eligible for the new automatic licences that provide
access to the auction if funds are required. Meanwhile, these consumer
imports are permitted under STL if financed unofficially. We propose to
complete the integration of consumers goods with the auction market no



- 65 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 6
later than January 1988, with an initial integration of at least 40 percent
of 1986 STL imports by April 1987.
10.       The transition is being accompanied by fiscal reforms to sec in
place the essential elements of simplified and less distortive structures
of trade taxation and protection. In particular, many of the anomalous
exemptions from sales tax and customs duty are being removed. The complex
sales and excise schedules for all domestic commodities (except alcohol,
tobacco and fuel) are being merged into a simplified and compressed
five-rate structure ranging from zero to 45 percent with 20 percent for
most commodities. Although the maximum 20 percent sales tax rate is
maintained for most imports, some goods are now to be taxed at the lower
rate of 10 percent while textiles, tobacco and alcohol products are subject
to special sales taxes. The customs duty rate on imports of consumption
goods other than luxuries has been reduced from 30 to 25 percent and SIL
importers will no longer pay the special 10 percent tax. The policy that
the 20 percent advance income tax payment is not required of taxpayers in
good standing and of agricultural enterprises will continue. The duty rate
has been reduced from 20 percent to 15 percent for four raw materials
(clinker, cotton, jute and pig-iron) while the rate for inputs to
pharmaceutical remains at 10 percent. Improvements are intended also in
the arrangements which attempt to avoid double taxation on production
inputs and to remove indirect taxes from the cost structure of exports. To
facilitate export from the timber and mineral sectors, their export duties
have been replaced by a stumpage fee increase for timber and by royalties
for minerals extraction. All these changes reduce the chance that, tax
anomalies and eroded protection could distort or impede domestic
enterprises' supply response to the removal of administrative rationing.
Meanwhile the Government's revenue is being increased since all imports are
now valued at the auction-determined exchange rate. The fiscal structure
will be refined further following a comprehensive trade tax and tariff
review which the Government will complete during 1987 in cooperation with
the Association and the IMF. The review, which will give due consideration
to protection, exports, reveLue and equity, is to be conducted in
accordance with terms of reference to be agreed with IDA prior to Board
presentation.
11.       Recognizing the critical importance of facilitating a rapid real
expansion of official foreign exchange earnings, the Government is also
pursuing a vigorous policy of liberalization, reinforced by other
incentives, on the export side. The most important measure is that all
export proceeds be surrendered at the auction rate, providing an immediate
increase of about 66 percent in their cedi values compared w±th the
official exchange rate set in January 1986. Although exporters, like other
producers, now have ready access to whatever foreign exchange they can
afford to import inputs, the retention account scheme is being continued
for non-traditional exporters. The retention has just been increased from
20 percent to 35 percent for these exporters, and its use has been
liberalized to irclude more business related expenses. However, to enlarge
the supply of foreign exchange to the auction, we intend to reduce the
retencion facility for selected large enterprises engaged in traditional



- 66 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 7
exports wherever contractual obligations permit. These exporters already
have access to forei3n exchange through the auction.
12.       Several other key elements of the trade policy reform program for
exports have been initiated in cooperation with tDA in the context of its
Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit. These include the simplification of
export documentation, the removal of tax elements from exporters' costs,
the reorganization and strengthening of the Export Promotion Council, and a
study of the introduction of central discounting facilities for pre- and/or
post-shipment export credit. The first of these has already been largely
accomplished by abolishing the export permit and streamlining other
procedures. To facilitate the second, the Government will improve the
present arrangements by July 1987 and is proposing to design a more
comprehensive suspension/refund scheme to give export production a
virtually free trade regime without discouraging domestic sourcing. Other
export incentives also are at the design stage and will be implemented
during 1987.
Cocoa Sector Policies
13.       The SAP relies heavily on the cocoa sector to meet its growth
objectives. Significant progress has been made in motivating production by
increasing returns to cocoa farmers, strengthening Cocobod's senior
management and streamlining its operations. Yet, the cocoa sector contains
a productivity reserve which, if exploited, could contribute to reduced
rural poverty, increased foreign exchange availability, and higher
Government revenue. The key steps to exploiting this productivity reserve
are: (i) further real increases in returns to farmers; (ii) reduction in
procurement and marketing coSts of cocoa, and (iii) formulation of a
development strategy to address constraints on output arising from the need
for extension services, adaptive research, disease control, inputs, credit,
etc.
14.       We have set the following majo- objectives for the cocoa sector
under the SAP: increase of cocoa output from 219,000 tons in 1985/86 to
258,000 tons by 1988/89; improve producer incentives sufficiently with a
view to ensuring annual production of at least 305,000 tons by 1995; reduce
the share of resources that currently accrues to Cocobod from about 30
percent of the f.o.b. price in 1985/86 to an indicative target of 15
percent of the currently projected f.o.b. price in 1988/89; initiate
gradual removal of the barriers to private sector participation in the
sector; re-evaluate the present system of cocoa taxation to ensure its
consistency with adequate producer incentives; strengthen extension
services to cocoa farmers, cocoa research and disease control; and
implement the production strategy developed under the Export Rehabilitation
Project.
15.       In pursuit of these objectives, an implementation programe has
been drawn up with the following major elements:



- 67 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 8
16.       Cocoa Producer Prices:  Since the launching of the ERP, the cocoa
producer price has been raised seven-fold from Cedi 12,000 to Cedi 85,500
per ton over four crop years. However, much of the gain to producers from
this increase has been eroded by inflation, so that in real terms the
present price is only three times the level of 1982/83. Farmers have begun
to respond well to these price increases. Nevertheless there is a need, in
the short run, to improve further farmer incentives with a view to:
(i) passing on to producers the full benefit of further exchange rate
movements; (ii) eliminating to the extent possible the incentive to
smuggle; and (iii) providing adequate incentives for rehabilitation,
replanting and new planting, and over the medium to long term to
progressively bring taxation of cocoa farmers in line with that of other
income earners. While the issues involved in setting an appropriate
producer price will be formally evaluated in a detailed study of incentives
and taxation, it is the Government's preliminary intention to move the
producer price gradually from the present nearly 30 percent of the long run
world price of cocoa to an indicative target of 55 percent of the long run
world price by 1988/89. With this in mind, we propose to announce on
May 1, 1987 a producer price for the 1987/88 crop of t140,000 per ton.  In
addition, a bonus of rio,ooo per ton will be announced and set aside to be
paid to farmers at the end of the crop year if cocoa output exceeds the
target set by Cocobod for the crop year. Furthermore, if export proceeds
exceed the projected level for the year, the surplus will accrue to a
compensation account to be shared between the cocoa farmer and the
Government in proportions to be agreed with the Association.
17.       Role of Cocobod.  Studies initiated under the 1984-86 ERP on all
aspects of the Board's activities have now been evaluated and in some cases
are being implemented. One result has been the reduction of Cocobod
employment to 60,000, by terminating the services of 16,000 employees and
by eliminating 25,000 ghost workers from the payroll. Despite these
substantial adjustments, extension, procurement and marketing require major
efficiency improvements, and extraneous activities need to be divested if
Cocobod is to reduce operating costs from the present 30 percent of the
f.o.b. price to a more appropriate target figure of 15 percent, net of any
costs associated with retrenchment.
18.       Measures to enable Cocobod to reduce its operating costs have
been discussed with the Association. Ic is Government's intention to apply
the following general principles to the exercise: (a) Cocobod will attempt
to confine itself to activities which cannot be done more efficiently by
other institutions or the private sector; (b) in line with (a), the Cocobod
will progressively shed all extraneous activities not directly related to
its purchasing and marketing operations and its extension and research
functions; (c) Cocobod will eliminate in a phased program all remaining
excess staff; (d) in effecting cost reductions, care is taken to protect
essential functions relating to Cocobod's buying and extension and research
functions.
19.       A corporate plan for Cocobod covering the 1987/88-1989/90 crop
years, that will incorporate the specific measures to be implemented will



- 68 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 9
be submitted to IDA by September 1987. Meanwhile, a statement of cocoa
policies incorporating the principles and main actions, and the 1986/87
Cocobod budget and work program, were submitted to the Association. These
include divestiture of plantations resulting in a reduction in staff in
February 1987 of about 10,000 workers. Implementation of the corporate
plan will be supervised by the reconstituted Board of Directors and will
come t(nrer the performance monitoring and evaluation system of the State
Enterprises Commission. The Government has asked the Association to
evaluate the lessons for Ghana from the experience of ocher countries in
liberalizing the internal and external trade in cocoa. The Government will
discuss with the Association the findings of thu review with a view to
studying in 1988 the pros and cons of liberalizing the trade in cocoa.
Public Expenditure Policy
20.       The impetus of production growth under the SAP is expected to
come primarily from small scale farmers and the private sector. However,
the response of the private sector to policy change depends on adequate and
well-maintained economic infrastructure as well as investment in human
co tal through the provision of health and education services and speclfic
interventions to alleviate poverty. Although there has been some
improvement recently, the deteriorated state of social and economic
infrastructure in Ghana has impeded the private sector's response to the
ERP. We, therefore, recognize the need both to increase the levels of
investment and shift resources towards key sectors within the context of
continued monetary and fiscal prudence. Public expenditure policies
include: (i) a restructuring of current expenditures to increase the other
goods and services component of spending compared to spending on personnel;
(ii) formulation of a rolling three-year investment programme and
(iii) strengthening domestic resource mobilization and cost recovery for
public services. The public expenditure programme is designed in the
context of the overall macro-economic framework, to ensure that its
composition is consistent with the growth targets and other objectives of
the SAP and supports key sectoral programmes to be summrized in the
document to be submitted to the Consultative Group.
Restructuring of Recurrent Expenditure
21.       To correct the current imbalance between expenditures on
personnel and the provision for materials and supplies, the Government is
committed to increase the allocations for the latter. In studies now
underway, guidelines will be developed to assist in the allocation of
adequate levels of funding for this component of expenditure in the
Ministries of Agriculture, Education, and Health. It is our intention to
substantially increase the level of budgetary resources provided to these
sectors. The results of the work relating to primary and secondary
education have guided the preparation of the 1987 budget. In the case of
agriculture and health considerable work remains to be done, but the 1987
budgetary provisions took into account the most critical needs already
identified with the balance in 198B. Studies of remaining key sectors will
be undertaken as needed in 1987.



- 69 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 10
22.       The wages and salaries component of the government budget will be
held at about 5.5-6.0 percent of GDP, reflecting the major improvement in
salary levels and structure accomplished in the 1986 budget, which amounts
to a near doubling in the government's wage bill over 1985 actuals. A
study of salary policy will be carried out. Future real salary adjustments
will be aimed primarily at improving incentives for the civil service,
particularly key personnel and technical staff, and tied to the growth in
nominal GDP and savings achieved from the planned reductions in civil
service employment. To this end, the Government has committed itself to
achieving up to 5 percent per annum reduction in the size of the Civil and
Education Services. A redeployment of 15,000 surplus etaff has been
approved for 1987. Some 6,740 surplus staff have been identified and will
be removed from the payroll by April 1987. The balance will be identified
shortly and removed by October 1987. As for compensation, a Special
Efficiency Fund of e 3 billion has been included in the 1987 budget towards
the cost of gratuities and pensions as well as other programmes such as
retraining. If this proves insufficient, compensation payments may have to
be spread over a longer period. A civil service staffing and functional
review to begin no later than July 1987 with assistance from UK ODA will
guide the 1988 redeployment program.
Capital Expenditures
23.       Investment planning and allocation will be improved substantially
through the introduction of a three-year rolling investment programme.
Agreement will be reached between the Government and the Association
concerning the size and composition of the programme. This programme,
which is summarized in Attachment 3 and totals $1.7 billion (at an exchange
rate of ¢ 150 - $1.00), implies an increase in the level of public
investment (excluding extra-budgetary projects) from 6 percent of GDP in
1986 to 10 percent of GDP in 1988. Within thae, the capital expenditures
of the cencral government, including foreign aided projects, would rise
from 4 percent of GDP in 1986 to 7 percent of GDP by 1988.
24.       Because of the large backlog of rehabilitation needs in Ghana a
core investment programme has been identified. Its composition reflects
the need to rehabilitate social and economic infrastructure with the
greatest emphasis given to roads and highways (22 percent) and a
substantial increase planned for transport and communications, which
accounts for a fifth of the program. Within this core several key projects
have been selected which are crucial to the objectives of the Economic
Recovery Programme. The core programme will be shielded from fluctuations
in funding. The programme will address to the extent feasible, the longer
term development issues such as our ability to develop social and economic
infrastructure adequate for a population that is expected to double by the
year 2010, the need to reverse the severe environmental consequences of
deforestation and desertification, and the rapid rate of growth of our
population. Economic rates of return will be calculated for all large
projects (US$5 million and over), outside the social sectors. All projects
to be included in the core programme will have an economic rate of return
of at least 15 percent.



- 70 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 11
25.       The Government and the Association have reached agreement that
expenditures on irrigation projects will be limited to those projects
showing an adequate race of return. The Government also has agreed to
transfer responsibility for constructing cocoa feeder roads from the Cocoa
Marketing Board to the Department of Feeder Roads. We propose to review
the design of the Kaneshie-Mallam road to explore the potential for
lowering costs and to reallocate the outlays on road investment to fund
more adequately trunk road maintenance. Investments in cocoa processing
rehabilitation will not be carried out until their feasibility is clearly
established. Investments on additional grain storage facilities will be
reviewed after completion of the evaluation of food security strategy in
Ghana co be carried out during the first half of 1987. The role of barter
agreements within the public expenditure programme will be kept under
careful review, not only with a view to ensuring that the free foreign
exchange available from sales of the country's main export, cocoa, and
needed for the foreign exchange auction is not excessively preempted, but
also to ensure that investment projects funded under these arrangements
reflect the Government's critical priorities. These projects will be
subject to the same criteria as other investments in the cDre.
Resource Mobilization
26.       Under its stabilization programne, the Government already has
adopted measures to increase the tax effort and improve tax administration.
Major efforts have been made to improve collection procedures, especially
for the company income tax. The main new measures to increase revenue are:
taxation of a portion of the allowances of non-civil service employees and
an excise duty on petroleum. Tn addition, continued progress towards a
more realistic exchange rate and the impact of the 1986 increase in
salaries will increase revenue receipts. Future measures being taken or
envisaged, apart from those described in para. 10 above include a reform of
the company income tax to improve the incentives for production.
27.       The Government has taken several cost recovery measures.  In 1985
hospital fees were raised sharply. As part of the IDA-financed Health and
Education Rehabilitation Project, a study on cost effectiveness and cost
recovery is currently underway in the Ministry of Health to identify
additional cost recovery measures. In the education sector, boarders in
secondary schools now pay two-thirds of their food costs, and exercise
books are sold rather than supplied to students. The Government is
studying to what extent additional fees can be charged, especially for the
use of textbooks at secondary, tertiary, and university levels. In
addition, the Government is examining ways to increase user fees for
irrigation to cover reasonable operations and maintenance costs.
State Enterprise Sector
28.       State enterprises in Ghana play a major role in virtually all
sectors of the economy. While these enterprises were originally
established to fulfill a number of economic and social objectives, their
performance has been characterized by large deficits and low productivity



-71 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 12
with the result that they have become a heavy financial and managerial
burden upon the Government. The Government, as part of its SAP, has begun
to reform and restructure the sector. The overall objective is to achieve
a more efficient and productive SOE sector which is well managed,
commercially- oriented, and financially autonomous, and contributes to
economic growth. To achieve these objectives, we are taking steps to
establish the appropriate policy, legal and institutional environments with
a view not only to having commercially-oriented state enterprises operate
without direct or indirect subsidies, but also having them contribute to
Government revenue and development.
29.       To rescore financial discipline and reduce the burden upon the
Central Government budget, we propose to establish new guidelines for use
of budgetary funds by SOEs, aimed at a progressive phase-out of explicit
and implicit budgetary subsidies over a three to five-year period. SOEs
requiring Government financial support for their investment progranms will
be required to justify the project in the context of an internally
consistent corporate plan; such projects will need to meet the criteria
required of other projects to be included in the investment program.
Enterprises will also be expected to contribute to project financing from
their own resources. To strengthen the financial position of those SOEs
which are critical to the success of the ERP. the Government will agree
with IDA by October 31, 1987 on a plan to eliminate the outstanding
cross-debts between 14 key enterprises. as well as to clear outstanding
arrears between these SOEs and the Government. To ensure that the
Government receives an appropriate return on its investment, a dividend
policy will be introduced so that profitable enterprises contribute to the
Government's resource nobilization efforts.
30.       To improve SOE efficiency and productivity, a labour rationali-
zation program will be introduced. We propose to continue the current
freeze on hiring (with exceptions for skilled and professional positions).
Labour surveys will be undertaken and, in accordance with the Government's
carget for the ERP, aggregate staff reductions for the sector as a whole,
of approximately 5 percent annually will be implemented, commencing in 1987
and subject to staff audits. A labour redeployment policy will be
introduced to facilitate the transition of both civil service and SOE
employees to other productive employment. A variety of programmes are
under preparation with assistance from ILO and others.
31.       There is an urgent need to revamp and strengthen SOE management.
A comprehensive program of management training and development will be
initiated to ensure that Ghana has a core of skilled SOE managers.
Furthermore, the Government is prepared to provide remunerative salaries
and bonuses as well as ensure greater security of tenure and autonomy for
managers who are successful in improving the performance and productivity
of their enterprises. However, given the urgent need to solve critical
management problems in some enterprises, the Government has already begun
to enter into management contracts vith foreign firms and will explore
similar options with Chanaian firms, while concentrating on the development
of an adequate core of Ghanaian managers.



- 72 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 13
32.       To alleviate the excessive financial and managerial burden of the
SOE sector upon Government, we intend to take steps to rationalize the SOE
sector through mergers, divestiture (partial and total) and liquidations.
Non-strategic enterprises which are inactive or clearly have np potential
for commercial viability or for whom it has not been possible to find
suitable investors despite determined efforts, will be liquidated.
Reducing the number of SOEs will allow Government to channel its resources
to those strategic SOEs which are essential to the success of the ERP;
other SOEs will be considered for joint ventures and divestiture. The
Government will proceed with rationalization in a phased pragmatic manner,
examining enterprises to assess their long term economic and financial
viability, the overall business and market environment, the level of
competition, potential investors, and policy and financial issues to be
resolved prior to divestiture. An initial implementation program, covering
30 SOEs has been agreed with the Association which will involve putting up
for sale at least 5 SOEs including the State Fishing Corporation and
initiating liquidation of 5 inactive SOEs by the end of 1987. No undue
advantage or protection will be provided to individuals or firms which
acquire existing SOEs.
33.       To strengthen Government's ability to monitor SOE performance,
the Government is restructuring the State Enterprises Commission (SEC) as
Government's SOE oversight agency. The SEC will advise Government on key
SOE issues and monitor and evaluate SOE performance. Selected SOEs will be
expected to prepare three year corporate plans and enter into performance
agreements with Government setting out the agreed objectives and
performance targets. The SEC will then in conjunction with the appropriate
sector ministry evaluate actual results vis-a-vis the agreed targets, and
enterprise management will receive bonuses or penalties on the basis of
their actual performance. The initial focus will be on 14 priority SOF3
targeted for attention due to their economic and budgetary impact. By
December 31, 1987 corporate plans will be completed for at least 10 of the
14 SOEs with draft performance agreements for 4 of these enterprises and an
agreement signed with Cocobod.
Public Sector Management
34.       As the ERP gathers momentum, the Government's economic management
institutions and administrative capabilities are being put to a severe
test. These have suffered severely during the years of decline, and are
still constrained by the long deterioration of public service salaries with
its result of an exodus of capable and experienced people, and by grave
shortages in materials and equipment. Unless svift action is taken,
shortcomings in policy management and implementation could jeopardize the
success of the recovery. The Government is, therefore, instituting an
urgent progranme, under the direct supervision of senior officials, to
strengthen key administrative and policy functions. At the saue time, it
is our intention to develop a medium-term programme of reform for public
sector management. Consistency between short-term responses and the
medium-term reforms will be a major consideration in the design of the
immediate programme.



- 73 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 14
35.       In undertaking public sector management reform, Government's
objectives are to improve co-ordination of economic policy measures under
the ER?, to strengthen economic management functions, and to raise sharply
the productivity of the civil service. An action programme has been drawn
up and implementation has begun.
36.       Economic policy coordination is being reinforced by additions to
the high-level policy staff of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning. An economic policy group is being recruited to advise me on
macroeconomic, fiscal, monetary and planning issues, and to strengthen the
analytical capacity of my Ministry. The Government also plans to expedite
economic policy decisions at the level of the Committee of Secretaries and
the PNDC. It has therefore established a small liaison office in the
Castle to ensure efficient processing of policy documents and aid
agreements and better communication and wider dissemination of policy
decisions.
37.       The Government is tackling weaknesses in economic management on
several fronts. To complement the strengthening of planning units in
sector ministries the divisions responsible for planning and project
analysis are being restructured, and additional staff are being recruited.
This will go in parallel with the recent decision to create a new planning
structure with a view to strengthening governmental capacity to determine
national priorities in the context of decentralization. A special
committee of the PNDC is currently working on a timetable and details of
implementation. In the event that establishment of the new planning system
necessitates the movement of any unit from MFEP, it is intended that
appropriate consultations will be held with IDA prior to any change. Every
effort will be made to ensure a smooth transition to the new system.
Near-term improvements on the budget side are being pursued through the
addition of experienced advisory staff, coupled with the introduction of
expenditure norms, budgetary protection for priority activities and
improved methods of forecasting current expenditure.
38.       Given the critical importance of external assistance for the
Recovery Programme, the machinery for managing and monitoring
disbursements, and implementation of foreign aid, is being substantially
strengthened. An improved information system on all aided activities is
now operational. The Central Project Monitoring Unit set up in 1985 will
retain its identity but will be integrated into the International Economic
Relations Division of my Ministry. That division's staffing and linkages
with the public investment function are being improved, and all aid
coordination is being actively supervised. For debt management, the
Government has now assigned clear responsibilities which affirm the primary
role of the MFEP in formulating and implementing the nation's borrowing
policy, monitoring overall debt management, and maintaining debt data and
clarify the respective roles of the Bank of Ghana and the Controller and
Accountant-General in the payment of public obligations. Full
implementation of the new arrangements will include installation of an
improved debt information system with UNCTAD assistance.



ANNEX IV
- 74 -                    Page 15
39.       Restoring the productivity of the public service to acceptable
levels will require prolonged effort, given the fiscal and manpower
constraints which Ghana faces. Nevertheless, several important measures
have been instituted to reverse past decline and to concentrate the
energies of the civil service on the nation's priority tasks.
40.       As indicated above, public service salaries were raised
substantially in 1986. The increases entailed substantial decompression of
the salary structure. Over the 1987-89 period, the Government intends,
within the ERP's resources and priorities, to at least maintain real public
service salaries and to concentrate pay increases permitted by resource
availability and redeployment on key personnel.
41.       The Government recognlzes that these actions will not fully
restore the competitiveness of upper-level salaries for some time, and that
further measures are needed to mobilize the skills necessary to manage and
implement economic recovery. It has approved and is instituting
arrangements to mobilize skilled Ghanaians at home and abroad on short-term
and secondment assignments on a consultancy basis, supplemented where
necessary by international expertise, and for supplemental remuneration to
a small number of civil servants engaged in crucial ERP work.
42.       An important component of the Government's public sector
management reform programme is the retrenchment of surplus public sector
personnel announced in 1985, under which 16,000 Cocobod employees were
redeployed and compensated in December 1985. As noted in para 22 above,
for the civil and education services, the first phase of the Government's
1987-88 target of about 5 percent per annum will be met with the removal of
some 15,000 surplus staff during 1987. The second phase of about another
15,000 workers will be implemented during 1988 subject to a civil service
staffing and functional review. Retrenched workers will be compensated
under the ERP's Special Efficiency Scheme, and training and resettlement
facilities are being arranged further to encourage these and future
retrenched workers to take up private sector opportunities.
43.       These measures will be complemented by an active programme to
improve the management of the civil service itself. The Office of the Head
of the Civil Service is being strengthened, and information on personnel
and the payroll, which had become incomplete and unreliable, is being
brought up-to-date and evaluated by that agency and by the Controller and
Accountant-General. The Government is reviewing training needs and
training institutions in the public service to give greater emphasis to
functional training needs. As a prerequisite for measures to improve civil
service management, the Government will revise the Public Service Act
during 1987.
Climate for Private Investment
44.       The success of the SAP depends partly on a strong response from
private producers. Accordingly, the Government has backed up policy
reforms with institutional measures and other incentives to improve the



ANNEX IV
- 75 -                   Page 16
climate for private investors, to increase confidence in the banking
system, to create better opportunities for dialogue between the Government,
business and labour, and to encourage private participation in enterprises
now owned by the State.
45.       The independence of private producers in conducting their
business affairs has been enhanced particularly through measures to reduce
the extent of Government intervention. Price and distribution controls
have been virtually dismantled, with elimination of enftacement agents and
with prior approval of the PIB for price changes now limited to eight
commodities which involve monopolistic producers or special problems of
supply. As indicated above, the necessity for these remaining controls
will be reviewed by the end of 1987 with a view to their removal. Workers
are being encouraged to work positively with Management and Government to
raise production and productivity, and the Tripartite Committee was
established as a forum for these three groups to share in making decisions.
As noted earlier, (para. 10) the system of taxation is being improved by
simplifying it and by ensuring effective relief of taxes on inputs and on
manufacturing profits.
46.       Other positive efforts to stimulate private sector investors have
included issuance of a Statement of Industrial Policy, promulgation of a
new Investment Code, private sector participation in the membership of che
National Economic Commission, and joint sponsorship with the Association of
Ghana Industries of the INDUTECH '86 Trade Fair. The Ghana Investments
Centre has already processed a substantial number of applications for
benefits available to priority investments under the Investment Code, and
it plans to issue guidelines to further clarify investment priorities and
criteria shortly. To further improve the climate for foreign investors,
the Government will review in 1987 ways of reducing the backlog of
remittances of dividends and royalties as the foreign exchange situation
eases. We will also explore ways to develop a market for equity capital.
As noted earlier, a medium-term export development strategy is being
prepared and institutional support for potential private exporters will be
strengthened. Meanwhile, several steps have already been taken to reduce
impediments and improve incentives for export.
47.       The ability of the private sector to respond to improved
incentives has been inhibited by the weak liquidity position of some
producers. The Government has greatly improved the incentive for banks to
extend credit by significantly raising interest rates and by containing
inflation. We intend to ensure confidentiality of relations between banks
and their clients. Banks are being encouraged to support priority sectors
by providing the necessary credit and concessionary lending rates in those
sectors have been phased out. Measures are planned to reduce operating
costs of banks. Financial and management audits will be initiated for
state-owned banks. The Bank of Ghana is facilitating lending by
introducing rediscounting facilities for trade bills, sponsoring a domestic
resource mobilization programme and making efforts to hasten disbursements
of external credits. To encourage firms to revalue their assets in order
to improve their creditworthiness, the Government has waived the Stamp Tax



ANNEX IV
- 76 -                   Page 17
on asset revaluation. We propose to study with the Association and the IMP
further measures needed to improve the performance of the financial sector.
48.       It is our intention to further enhance our efforts to improve our
dialogue with the private sector and to continue to provide an overall
environment conducive to a strong response from the sector to the reform
programme.
Social Aspects of the Structural Adjustment Programme
49.       The major thrust of the ERP and the SAP is economic recovery and
growth that will raise the incomes of all population groups and increase
economic opportunities for all. Living standards had deteriorated
substantially prior to 1983. Tn the absence of appropriate policies to
improve the incentives to domestic productioi and exports, export
performance would have deteriorated further, commodity shortages would have
persisted, and the tax base would have been eroded further. All Ghanaians,
rich and poor, would have been victims of a general continuing contraction
in income-earning opportunities, scarcity of consumer goods, and a
breakdown in the provision of infrastructure and social service. In short,
the cost of not adjusting would have been a further economic collapse that
would have compromised living standards still further.
50.       Notwithstanding the fact that the ERP and SAP have been designed
to improve the living standards of all segments of the population, the
Government is keenly aware that the prolonged decline of the economy had
resulted in substantial reductions in per capita real income and food
production. The poorer groups, primarily the rural population and the
urban informal sector, would have been among those least able to protect
their position. Nutritional problems mainly resulting from very low real
incomes and declining food production have affected particularly small-
scale farming households in the drought-prone northern areas, by far the
poorest areas in the country, and low-income utban households. In each
case the nutritional problems appear particularly severe among children
under five and pregnant and lactating women. In the northern part of the
country, the problem is especially acute just before harvesting. The
recovery of food production in 1984 and 1985, which coincided with the
arrival of large quantities of food aid, has improved the situation
compared with 1983, but we recognize that serious nutritional deficiencies
persist among these groupe. Moreover, living standards have been further
eroded by the past decline in quality and levels of service in the health,
education, and water and sanitation sectors. Rural areas in the north are
worst off in terms of access to social services and a number of social
indicators confirm that rural northern households constitute some of the
most deprived groups in Ghana.
51.       The Government is anxious to ensure some measure of immediate
relief for the groups who have been hardest hit by the economic decline and
will also design programs to raise their incomes and to provide them with
more adequate public services. The structural adjustment framework will
address the above concerns through nutritional support projects for



- 77                     ANNEX IV
Page 18
selected target groups.   Food-for-work schemes in the northern areas and
in the low income urban areas aled at Improving water and sanitation,
schools, clinics and feeder roads are under preparation. Parallel schemes
to enhance the self-sufficiency of households through income generating
projects for small-scale farmers particularly in the north, and for
low-income urban householda are also under preparacion. Resource flows
towards health and education and rural drinking water will be expanded and
focussed on the poor. Special programmes are also being designed to assist
retrenched workers in the public sector to resettle. Finally, the
Government is mounting a living standards survey to improve the knowledge
of the nature, extent and causes of poverty, while at the same time
developing baseline data against which to monitor the impact of the
adjustment program on income levels and distribution, employment, health
and nutrition.
Monitoring _f the Structural Adjustunt Program
52.       During the preparation phase of the Structural Adjustment
Programme, the Government created a Project Team headed by the Chairman of
the Committee of Secretaries, This team will continue its work in the
future and will: (i) monitor and evaluate the progress of the ongoing
reforms as well as their lmpact on the economy; (ii) formulate and prepare
recommendations for future structural adjustment measures; and (iil) liaise
with the Association for periodic progress reviews of the first phase of
the structural adjustment programme.
Conclusion
53.       In view of the initiatives taken by Ghana in the formulation and
implementation of the first phase of the structural adjustment program, the
Government requests your favourable consideration for the extension of a
first Structural Adjustment Credlt in the amount of at least US$115
million.
Dr. Kwesijqtchwey 
PNDC Secretary ror Finance
and Economic Planning



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT 1
rage 1 of 5
A. POLICY REFORMS IN THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POWGRA!
I. Measures Adopted
Exchange Rate
1.   Establishment of second window foreign exchange auction (September 19,
1986).
2. Unification of fixed and auction exchange rates (February 20, 1987).
Trade
3.   Issue of import licenses automatically to any lmporter of production
goods (October 1986).
4. Abolition of export permits and streamlining of export documentation;
took initial steps to strengthen Ghana Export Promotion Council (January
1987).
5. Replacement of export duties by extraction taxes for timber and
minerals; budgetary provision for prompt payment of import duty rebate for
exporters; increase of retention for non-traditional exporters from 20 to
35 percent or export proceeds (February 1987).
6. Reduction of customs duty and removal of special tax on most
consumptlon goods imports; abolition of many previous exemptions to import
duties; and introduction of special sales taxes on Imports of textiles.
tobacco and alcoholic products (February 1987).
7. Consolidation of excise duties into new structure of sales taxes on
domestic production, except for tobacco products and beverages; many
exemptlons abolished (February 1987).
Cocoa Sector
8.   Adjustment of producer price from 56,600 cedis per ton for the 1985/86
crop year to 85,500 ceadis per ton for the 1986/87 crop (April 1986).
9. Elimination of 25,000 ghost workers and reduction of omployment in the
Cocobod by 16,000 to a level of 60,000 (December 1985). An additional
10,000 workers have baen removed from the payroll (February 1987).
10. Drew up Cocobod budget for 1986/87 which includes initial
rationalization measures such as the transfar of cocoa feeder roads to the
Department of Feeder Roads and the divestment of 52 plantations (January
1987).



- 79 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 5
Public Expenditure
11.   Macroeconomic framework prepared for the November 1985 Consultative
Group meeting (November 1985).
12.   Prepared final draft of the Public Investment Program 1986-1988
(February 1987).
13.   Raised personal exemptions for income tax and adjusted rates and
brackets in order to correct for excessively progresaive rates.
Introduction of implicit taxation of petroleum (April 1986) and its
explicit taxation (February 1987).
14. Implemented reform of direct taxes including a decrease in the
effective marginal personal income tax rate by widening income bands, the
taxation of some cash allowances, a lowering of the corporate tax rate for
manufacturing concerns, and introduction of a petroleum excise duty to
bring prices more in line with those of neighboring countries (February
1987).
15. Developed guidelines for allocation of non-wage recurrent expenditure
in Ministry of Education and incorporated in 1987 budget along with
preliminary findings for health and agriculture (February 1987).
State-Owned Enterprises
16.   Preparation of a proposed SOE reform program including
rationalization of the sector through mergers, divestitures and
liquidations; elimination of arrears and the restoration of financial
discipline; strengthening Government's ability to monitor SOEs through a
restructured State Enterprise Commission; introduction of an effective
performance monitoring and evaluation system; and increasing the autonomy
and accountability of SOEs in their day to day operations (April 1986).
17.   Preparation of a preliminary categorization of SOBs to remain
vholly-owned (53), to remain as joint ventures (38), to be converted to
joint ventures (40), to be totally divested (34) and to be liquidated (5)
(April 1986).
18. Preparation of a memorandum on the restructuring of the State
Enterprise Commission (SEC) as Government's oversight agency (April 1986).
Appointment of a new Chairman of SEC (December 1986).
19. Drew up list of 20-30 priority divestiture and liquidation candidates
and began implementation (January 1987).
Public Sector Nanagement
20. Implementation of large salary adjustment for the public service which
significantly increased relativities in the structure (January 1986).



- 80 -             ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 3 of 5
It. Other Measures to be Adopted in the First Phase
External Debt
21. Continue to pursue a prudent debt management policy (1987-1988).
Financial Sector
22. Reduce banking costs and improve efficiency by issuing higher
denomination notes (September 1987).
23. Complete financial audit and thorough review of the portfolios,
systeas and management of Ghana Commercial Bank and the Social Security
Bank (September 1987).
Trade
24. Progressively extend access to the foreign exchange auction to
consumption goods (January 1988); first stage of 40 percent of 1986 SIL
imports by value (April 1987).
25. Implement additional tax reforms on basis of a review to be carried
out in 1987, including new customs and excise/sales tax and exemption
schedules (January 1988).
26. Reduce the retention account of Cocobod to 2 percent (March 1987) and
review other retention accounts of large scale traditional exporters with a
view to reduction (1987).
21. Implement suspension/rebate procedures for exporters' inputs (July
1987 and January 1988).
28. Adopt a medium-term export development strategy and implement
additional export incentives (January 1988).
Cocoa Sector
29. Raise cocoa producer price to 140,000 cedis per ton effective for crop
year 1987/88 (May 1987) with a bonus of 10,000 cedis linked to production
targets agreed with IDA (September 1988).
30. Establish a separate compensation account (October 1987) which would
be credited with couoa export receipts in excess of planned levels due to
output, exchange rate and price developments to be shared between farmers
and the Government.
31. Improvement of the producer price to an indicative target of 55
percent of the long-run world price by 1988/89 (May 1988).



- 81 -              ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 4 of 5
32. Starting with 1987/88 crop year, prepare and implement a rolling
3-year corporate plan for Cocobod (October 1987) to reflect the
rationalization program, Including the establishment of a joint venture for
the insecticide formulation plant; divestment of plantations;
identification and elimination of excess labor; rationalization of cocoa
processing plants; progressive withdrawal from road haulage; expanded role
of private sector to provide inputs and storage; and such additional
measures as recommended in IDA review of cocoa marketing (December 1987).
Public Expenditure
33. Annual revision of macro-economic framework (1987-1988).
34. Develop guidelines for the allocation of non-wage recurrent
expenditure for the Ministries of Agriculture and Health (June 1967) and
incorporate into 1988 budget.
35. Annual review and roll-over of the 3 year public expenditure program
(1987-1988).
36. Protection of budget funding for about 20 key investment projects (Hay
1987 and January 1988).
State-Owned Enterprises
37. Adopt statement of policy on SOEs (March 1987).
38. Approve new legislation for State Enterprise Commission (March 1987).
39. Establish guidelines on access by SOEs to budget for current and
capital transfers with a view to reducing level of subsidies (April 1987).
40. Identify arrears and cross-debts for 14 priority SOEs (GVSC, ECG,
SGMC, GRC, VRA, Cocobod, GRAIP, COIL, GNPC, Black Star Line, Ghana Airways,
P&T, Ports Authority, Ghana Supply Commission), agree with IDA on plan for
settlement and clearance of arrears (October 1987).
41. Design performance, monitoring/evaluation system for SOEs (June 1987).
42. Identify redundant staff in priority enterprises. Level of staff
retrenchment needed would vary depending on the enterprise, but is expected
to result in a 5 percent aggregate SOE staff reduction both in 1987 and
1988. Identify cost of redundancy and develop financing plan (September
1987).
43. Complete audited 1985 and unaudLted 1986 financial statements for at
least 10 of 14 priority SOEs ( December 1987).
44. Complete corporate plans for at least 10 of 14 priority SOEs with
approval by Board of Directors and sector minister (December 1987).



- 82 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHKEN'r 1
Page 5 of 5
45. Sign performance agreement with Cocobod and prepare draft performance
agreements wLth at least four other priority SOEs on the baism of completed
corporate plans (December 1987).
Public Sector Management
46. Remove about 6,740 staff from the payroll by April 1987; remove
remaining 8,260 staff from the payroll by October 1987. Compensation
scheme to be developed and agreed vith the Association by April 1987.
Implement 1988 program of reducing civil service staff by 15,000 subject to
civil service staffing and functional review (October 1988)
47. Implement temporary incentive scheme to deal with low civil service
salaries for key personnel and technical level staff (1987-1988).
48. Complete interim assessment of salary policy (November 1987).
49. Commence strengthening of the Office of the Head of the Civil Service
(July 1987).
50. Establish an economic liaison unit for PNDC and CCOS Secretariat to
expedite economic policy decisions (June 1987).
51. Begin to implement action program to strengthen NFRP including:
establisbment of an economic policy unit and appointment of key staff;
development of organization and staffing plans for the Planning, Budget and
IPA Divisions (March 1987); action plan to reform budget process and
expenditure control (1987).
52. Install debt management and information system (September 1987).
Poverty Alleviation
53. Carry out the Ghana Living Standards Survey in order to provide a
frequent and regular plcture of trends in incomes and employment
(1987-1988).
54. Design programs to assist the worst-off groups including subsistence
farming households in the northern part of the country, the urban informal
sector, children under five, and pregnant and lactating women (Jline 1987).
B. STUDIES TO PREPARE FUTURE POLICY REFORMS
1. Complete comprehensive review of trade taxes (September 1987; see
no.25).
2. Complete study of cocoa incentives, including the tax system (November
1987; see no. 16).
3. Complete detailed review of staffing and wages in the civil service and
strengthening of the Office of the Read of the Civil Service (July 1988;
see nos. 46 and 49).



8 B3 -                 ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT 2
CBANA
MACRO-ECONOMIC TARGETS, 1987-89
Annual
Average  Actual       Estimates              Projections
1980-83     1984      1985     1986     1987      1988     1989
.... ........__ ... .. .....  ... ....... ..........  -----. . .--  .......... .......  ............ - .............
Growth Races
GDP                                   -5.1%      8.6%     5.11      5.3%     5.0%     5.3%      5.3w
GDP Deflator                         106.6%      3.5%    31.2%    30.2%    18.0%   12.5%        7.5%
Percent of Market Price GDP
National Accounts:
Consumption                         96.5%    95.1%    95.7%    92.3%    89.8%   86.7%    85.0%
Investment                           4.5%      7.6%     7.3%    10.3%    17.1%   21.0%    22.84
Private                             3.1%     4.0%      3.4%     4.4%      7.9%   11.1%    11.9%
Budgetary Cap. Expenditures a/      1.4%      2.6%     3.84     5.9%      9.2%    9.9%    10.8%
National Savings                     3.9%      4.7*     3;1%      6.6%     8.5%   12.2%    14.8t
Public bh                          -4.4%    -0.4%      0.1%     1.7%      3.2%    3.5%      3.6%
Private                             8.3%      5.1%     3.0%    .4.8%      5.3%    8.7%    11.2%
of which: Foreign Transfers       0.0t      1.0%     0.5%     0.9%      1.3%    2.0%      2.8%
Foreign Saving                       0.6%      2.8%     4.2%     3.7%      8.6%    8.8%      7.9%
Central Government Budget:
Total Revenues                       6.4%      8.0%    10.4%    13.6%    16.1%   16.2%    16.5%
Total Expenditure                   12.2%    11.8%    14.1%    17.8%    22.8%   23.61    24.4%
Recurrent                         10.7%      8.4%    10.3%    11.9%    12.9%   12.7%    12.9%
Capital                            1.5%     3.4%      3.8%     5.9%      9.2%    9.9%    10.8%
Special Efficiency                 0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%      0.7%    0.9%     0.6%
Overall Deficit                      5.8%      3.8%     3.8%     4.1%      6.6%    7.4%      7.91
Balance of Payments
Exports of GNFS                      4.5%      8.0%     9.9%    15.8%    21.7%  22.2%    22.7%
Imports of GNFS                     -5.4%   -10.7%   -12.9%   -18.5%   -28.6%  -30.0%   -30.5%
Resource Balance                    -0.9%    -2.7%    -3.0%    -2.6%    -7.0%   -7.7%    -7.8%
Current Account Balance             -1.6%    -2.8%    -4.2%    -3.7%    -8.6%  -8.8%    -7.9%
Overall Balance                     -1.0%    -1.6%    -1.7%    -1.1%       2.8%   3.0%      2.5%
a/ From 1984, includes State Enterprises capital expenditures flnanced
by external concessional assistance.
b/ Represents Central Government's savings only.



-84-                                        _
Attachmnt 3
aRnA.  PUBLIC IDVSTMERT PROCRAM 1986-8J
1987 PROGRAM. COSTS AND FIlANCING 11
(MLiLLons of CUsd1)
Domestic Budget Finanding
Secured           ------- -
TotaL      Foreign Flnancing      Dovolopmnzt Budget Net Lending
Cost       -------  _________                          -----------
1987             FC         LC         FC         LC        LC
(A)  Productlve Sectors                   13,331       10,603        427           30        906     1,365
Agriculture                           7,102         5,160       427                     800        715
Industry                              3,229         2,943                      30       106       150
MLming end Timber                     3,000         2,500                                          S00
(B) EconomLe Infrastructure
Sectors                              34,995       21,910        398         2,290     9,785       612
Transport and Come 1nicmtions        10,505         8,317                     525     1,051       612
Roads & Highways                     14,191         4,545       378         1,765     7,503
Energy                                6,474         5,880        20                     574
Water                                 3,825         3,168                               657
(C)  Social Sectors                        5.445        1,602      1.248           442     2,153
Educatlon                             3,232           452     1,055           375     1,350
Health                                2,213         1,150       193            67       803
TotaLs                          53,771       34,115      2,073        2,762    12,044      1,977
Exchange Rate: US$1.00-lS0 CedLs
11  Excludes fLnancins (and sasociated eapendLturee) froa  oomercial aources, domestic and foreign, and
from th. retained earning of pubilc enterprises.



GHANA
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
ACTIZOS 'SAM1 BY OOY  RDMtZY       KIAUS ?AKZH 01 TO St ¶TAM                   IUASWIS ?A1X=
oai=irvus                        MM= TO    es loCad 19t DW FROMM                                    1110  TO DOAU FU1A1109                  MIT01ANZ  ATOKS
IlAfl POLICY  UOMS
tsplace M*4Lclstratve                Oftiolcl azckehaa rate              Pr.paratLon *a  LiplomentatLon       EstakIlshad fotci4n *eb-ahe
soatrola by ptLce rationing          depreciated to CdO01                of foeie 4n  Xcnhaa. euctlen.        auction CSeptember 1936) with
si foreign e se  o, fow                         tsoptembar 19UI6                                              autlatic access for NW
peorts a*n  unify the                                                                                         ipoLter of productive geo4
(October 19*6).
Un.ficatiun of fixed ca             Auction rate applied for
suctLon *ackhr. rates               .ustm  vsluation and for
(F.bnru y 1987).                    allocations outsLde the
uati  for *11 transactioes.
Almst *ll liparts                                                                                           prusrsiYulIy atm  macesas
decontrolld Lf ova funds                                                                                   to hAPtleo  to easol eo
used (SIL)                                                                                                  goods tJancu     1966)s flrst
stage of 402 of 198i SIL        O>
iEorta by value (April 1987). La
CiLtent to further
liberallustLon end inCenLLvs.
ILapiLfy *ad rationallze the                                             lruparatia sn "A "plem_tation       lApl_ted LcterLm tax
r.de tax  e7etm.                                                        of interlm tax reforms               reform.
C7mbruery ?7).
Agree on  nd Lplm-nt tax            Adopted agreed prL5Lples for        Conduct co   lbmo. ev. reviev
reform  including swv  ustems       design of further tax refurn        of trae cans by Sept er
*eiseseales tax, AM                 to be detailed in the rzview.       19S7 mA  £xlmt further
*esz tion schaduils,                                                    tax retu    *s andicated by
the review (J oazry 198).
_mve "ech4a  rate                                                        exten  auction rate to cocoa.       Aultion rate used for all
isiLzentivO And provide                                                                                      export proceda exet ceco
urther iunentives for export                                                                                 (Septber 1156). 1xtoed
roduuiLon an  invard                                                                                         to coco& (lebmqry 191).
Expogt retention sch ams                                                lIduced vattol   ancaut of           view  retentio  acts for  ,
Cocob  to 21                       tradiimal e rts With a
vl&v to reduction.
Streamlining of export                                                                                       Jpl_emnt euptaniosfrebate
procedures e_nced.                                                                                          procedures for experters'
inpuzs IJuIy 1294 and Janaery
liii).



ACTIONS TAKEN BY COVERIOCT         )EASURES TAEMI OR TO 31 TAKEN              KASUmrS TAaN
O3JRCTrvls                     PIUOR TO 11C11 1986                   vaDn   w PRAo                  PICM   TO BOARD PISUTATIOW            XMICTASU ACTIOS
TRADE POLICY RtIOC  (cont'd.)
Remove e     -nbe rate                                                                                       Implnated  sport IfonAtives
ditanentLn ad  provide                                                                                       pursuant to TEA agree.t
further incantlvas for eapore
production and wewrd
re.iutanoes.  (Continued)                                                                                    Initlated design of further         Adopt a agreed mediu-us
aport incentives,                  asprt n   alerat atrateig.
I*lat additemal espert
inntivs (Jamaz7 1I6).
VLthholdizg tam on intermat        Take Masure. to ecourage
payments vttbdrav.                 Ldgal Laward rmittances.
IndLyiduals permited to open
foreign acoetta at bank.
a'



ACtIONS ThARU  BY COVWR I           )fAShhS TAKEi OR S0 BE TAKEN                IASUEZ TAW
osncnvus                        MzOa 20 MAcH 198                      aMn nu PMGGA                   ms to  O0RD PRISDRUTATZOU               )D          £012015
COCOA SECT5R POLICIES
teuionallse prodeucer                 Adjustmnt of producer prie                                               Agreed With IDA aM:                Ziaipt  ereaenti am
ucantiven to ensuce                   frm 56,600 cadtt per ton to                                              (I) producer price for              1907/U pretder price.
production Soals                      65,500 oedis per ton for                                                 19371/  rop of 140.000 ctis
1986187 crop.                                                            per ton .
(11) bors Paymet  of 10,000        Zwre_vst of prodocer  price
Cedie per toa at end of crop       to s  inceatlvee taget of
Subeidised replentLng progroa                                            year.                               S51 of th  leo-rsn wortA
for diseased plents.                                                     Ctli)  estabtisbent of              Price by 2US119    erp.
ccepsnsatLeL scaene t   bsare
benfit f usezpeated
zmahnee rate deprelation,          Ua-rtsks a study of coce
world pzila  ard eutput             infcttve, incLding the tea
Lacrnos , with farmers.            system, the results to be
lapl_mented i4 1966. pbase
mat Slrt subsidies.
Rationaisme Cocobod operatlons        Elimlnation of 25.000  boet                                               Initiated further                  Prepare detailed                 ^
and confine Cocobod to                workers end reductLon of                                                 ratioealLateio  meassures           ratiaaltsatian pVim alm" At
aetivit 'a which cannt be da          employmant by 16,400 to                                                   includiL  retrenchment of          sducing Cocachd operating
more efaiclently by ether             40,000.                                                                   10,000 planmatio vorkers and       costs to a  indLaatSn 151 of
inatttutioes or the prLvt.                                                                                     shiftin  al autherLty of            preently projected gross
sector, end  iliate                                                                                             lfoo  Seeder rods to Dept.         sales rJua  fro  cocoa by
activittie  that do not hew  a        StudLes of Cocobod actiwities                                            of rleder oads,                     crp year s 1 /Ia establish
marketing, eatension, or              and functions,                                                                                               joint fnture for insecticsde
research fuction.                                                                                                                                  felatlm  plat; divest 52
Plataticas; idaify md
elfainata 1ecess a is
ratLmali,a coce proeessing
plts. progreslvely
vithdrw from rod halegeI
permit private sactor to
supply 1ats ad to Provide
storage.
Prepared Cocobod budget for        Prepare and Sapient olling
1ggoid7 Vn  work progre             3--yea  Cocobod corporate pln
including initial                  for 190718-1fl9190 to reflect 'U _
rationalLatLon mansures, the       raticsiaaticn ptsrmem.          n_ 
latter iS emboied ina aA'
Statmnmt of Policy agreed                      ,
with IDA.                          PerfSoanc  agre _t vith
Govt. based an corporate plan
to be signed by Dcember.



ACTIros TAKE  BY COYUMWhY           )ASURIS TAKEN Olt To B  TURN                 )6ASURNS TAm
omcnwIVs                        nmm TO MARC 1956                      UWIDEL R    PROGM                  IOR TO BOARD  MSZATIOW                     TRAIL  ACrIWE
PUBLIC EIPEiDITURZ POLICIES
1. nFAIUVOU
Dvelop acro-econLc                     Macro-economLc framework             DO assisting Gv ne                    Updated  oaroeooNsie       *     -     na1 revlison of
fraw'ork incorporating major           prepared for 1935                   prepagr a doestLc resource            frameork.                            macro-scaoiae frawork.
poLLcy ae4siioLu.                      Consultative Group.                 mobilitatLon promr:.
2. UDGET CEIKUAL
Nave budget in place a:                                                    Agreed on levels of recurrent         Ac_moaat PS 1987 budget               C _ncomen  of 198  bdget
beginning of finaclal year.                                                and epital ezpendtture an            Incorporating agreenents with        proess In July 1987.
overall budget defLlcT and            IDA on 1967 expendLture              Annune-nzt of 191e budget
its fLcancing far 1987               prioritls.                          Incorporating agnrzs with
(February 1987).                                                          IDA e  19en   epeM diture        II
piorlties.                      X
Agreent  n program of
budgetary controls based on
DV study (see page I).
3. RECURRET LMMADITU3Z
Improve  ffoctiveness of               Instituted Cost-recovezw            Agreed to liMit wage bill to          Developed guidelLnes for             Develcp guidelines for
prowision of Govt. aerviles             assures Ln health secter.           C34.6 biililon In 19S7.              alLocatlon of recurrent               Ministrles of Agrlclture *d
by correcting imbalances                                                                                         ezpenditures La  inistry of          Keslth by ham 1987  and in
between vages and salaries                                                                                       Zducatlon and incorporated In         other key sectors by Deco ber
Oad other espenditure.                                                                                           1987 budget. Also inorporated         197.
Lto 1297 budget th
prelimLnary findLngs on
agriculture *ad health.              Detesin- phased progsva to
attain full provisio of
nn-sslary recerrent
eapandLtures.
4. CAPITAL EXPEWDITURE
Raise levtl of pubiL  sector           Increased to 31 of CDP in 1985.                                           Agreed with IDA oan the 1986-5        Agree on 1955-9C public
developmnt expenditure.                                                                                          public Lnvstment program.            investment progrzam.
IWprow average rate of                 Firat draft of PIP.                                                       Agreed an criteria for               Protection of fundig for
return on public seater                                                                                          inclusion of projects La the         71 key projects.
lnvestment,                                                                                                      core end _ cbsais  for
prneettam evoral hey
prnjnas from the effects of
r eiree sehrtfellr. Agred
a llat of pjeoeta.



ACSIZWS TAl BY GOVCAUI              JEASUIZS TAXEi M TO U  Tl                    IGASmK     U
OuazCTa-nzs                     PlOR TO KAR   1966                     UDU  no PROGM                  m= rTO soAn 'asnnm                       mI. Ann    AOnS
FLIC MUDIZTRZ POLICIES CCant'd)
s. DUSTIC USOURCI IDbILILATIOI
Irge   domentia resource             Persnal ea_piocs for                 COwlte refom of personaL
mbllUxation I   centives for         ineom  taz ralsad end tax            income tax by further
production,                           rates ad brakets adjustod            increasing pezroal
To iesues maceassin                 ezeqtious and t"ing a wide
progreasivLty.                      range of csh allovances.
Ieplcit taxatLio  of                Introduced petrLem  caLea
petreolm  Lntrocdaedi               duty (Febrary 1937) Which
beefits of lawar enar. oil          will be progressively
priLce not pasned an to              Luncrased to brlng petroleti
consiacra.                          prLecs Ln line wLth those of
neLghbortng counttles.
Introduced inLtial chages Ln         Complex satls and achie
indirect taxes as deacrLbed in       Schedules for all domertLe
adjacent cel-ia eLaplify             cooditics (except alcohol,                                          0
taxes an beer and cigarettes.        tobaceo  nd fu l) merged Lnto                                       in
a sLopIlfied snd c_reJsed
five rate strueture ranging
frca xero to 41 vith 25Z for
most eoeodities. Cuastma
duty rate. levred for
mno-luxury conmtptlso goads
iras 30 to 2.1 and 101
special tax an SIL Lponts
abolishad. Zport duties for
miersals and timber ebolisbed
and stlwage fee sad
royalties increased.
Coplet   reforsm of indirect                                              Crmplte referm of Indirect
tames alon  lnes reconoaeded                                             teams wIth a view to
in report of 1963 DOP                                                     trrnsforming sales tar Lnte
technical mtssion,                                                        aJar non-d1stortionary         ra
rceveu  souce and liLtins   X
n-b r of aezLse dtlas.         °QM
Zomnre Laport tariff *mbodlesJ_
appropriate pattern of         '1
effectivs protection, based
- study of tariffs aN
indirect taxes whch will
assess Imact of exche
rote retaor (psac I shove).



ACTI0    AlUS BY   o    agT        )ISS  TAKl 0o  TO B1 TAlD                   KAsUInS lAID
OUCYZrS                         IUR  TO WON 1g1g                     UNDS VW P3011                 110  TO D lELmu mT  aU0ICM Z An0Os
ITATI-OCI  DTfi'USS luo
Istablish p0lLey frsneev,.           Cuaultmnt Study coaisslioed                                             Agreed with Ih  cm statemnt        No  ew 51  t  be creted
c Su sector. S0O Task frcec                                             of pOIlCy an Ms.                   1953-8a .apt =Aar agreed
established eiuh dzev on sudy                                                                                tir n.   DeeloW        p Ueliaiea
A  prepared dreft PolIcy                                                                                   an -     1.w.ton,
etatst.                                                                                                   bSror iBs.  4IVda .      s.
Aar" wlth IDA a action plan
far rCL4g      y       -
price ...Lw proess for
regulated lUC. IdmtUfy
Sa to be inmperatd. re2
Cumienm law.
ILiaLn.te SntOrs MA  reston                                             VW to mitor accumn to buk            Auditorm hired to help             IdmtLfy arrears 
lenalAisl di.eipvim.                                                    ct"ilt of selected SM.               identify arrears Macress-          cr.sa-d.bts for 14 prLority
.ots fgo  1 i priOity SM1.         NUn m   agree with ML en
pla for settlet (October
clearance of arrears of 14
priotity CAW.&
Age' with   L as guidelines
for aaeraF by 1Wa to budget
for ingest a e, ital
v.imfere with a v*e  to
redmolS L1yl of Sb5LLe
(Argil-m.) ss I_"mtl
of guidelines dmrta  1907-89.
Istieallse the SCl sector            OS  Tasek Feee* prepared a                                             A*reed with IDA en list of 30       offer for male 5 S
Arough mrgsrs, divestiture          prlialmery catte5oriatloe .of                                           SM  to be divested in fLst          lacldia  Strs liuhi*g
med llquidatiuto.                    lOn to remain wholLy-eA4                                               PhMem prepaed diweeviture   Ceotatlenu Initiate
(33), to romain as Joint                                               proram fiqdel eo                   lLqu.taen of 3  01ai.
Wat"Res (35), te                                                       e stblished DlVe$ttLue u            Progress rview by yer am
eem*tt to JeSrt vetuxes                                                Imle_ntetio Comitee  to             1#7                           0 
(4U1, to e  t teelty dlveted                                           EV44 presr_                                                       O
(34)  d  to be  Lquidated (5)                                                                                                            4
uregc4: covrmsent'a                  -  Tak lorm  repare  a                                                 9stalUhtod  W  SIC; appo.ited       De Sia  perfoo.e
bUiLty to monitor ICEs.             mmrWn  ed readmseaurim                                                  p memt hai-tim  ehaima             sanItoringlmluatian cystm
th  Caste Saterqrie                                                    ___ odhr  euetiwe*s aersed          (ia  137).
Cmi  teon UC) as                                                       wLts  ma _  is  ear SU
ivet..-tu  vreussbt *ey. w_-                                                program.



ACTIONS TARS BY GOYOUVZU?T         1UlStZS TAUX OR TO SE ?AW                   UASURS TAIn
OBJbCTIVIES                    POR TO KARC I2U6                     UNDZR D? PORAt                PRltR TO MMD PUSEUTIOU                   WSQAZ ACIOS
STATU-CWI  UrhPtIShS RUM  (Cant'd)
Strengthen Goermat's ability                                                                                 Inttiaod prparatiac of             AiMited 165 fisamigl
to mottor SOla.  (ContLnued)                                                                                 adited financil utatint.           stwt_n  a  adtm tu-r
(164) asnd etprnt* Plans           serpet. plns tO be
for 5 priority SO.   Agreed       s_letsd for at last 10 of
with IDA a  IlJt of fourteon            priority  Oe.  raft
prLerity SWm to be closely         prfemso agrufl.s
mociteoeed Cocehod, @66,           proepord fur G of tbese
Cc,  ;IIC, fO;, CaC, GUI?,         (CDac_r 1971). Perfdo
oMa. wa, cvA, CAE                  asr"      to be aiLowd with
Airways, Dl&.k Star Lines,         Coosbod Doe_or 19U7.
GRana SpIply Cmisiion,
Ghaa P £1S.
Improve SOZ anqeont  and             Freze an hiring (eacept                                                Cocebod redutedstaff by             Identify cost of   _ rac7
lfiLelonay.                          profossionals) in offoct for                                            10.000 (February 1967).             a  devlep f iasata  piln
SOSe.                                                                                                      (Septebr 1987). Dm510 sd
3topli   raesttlmat n
st.stanc proe  .
Identify roadant staff LA
priority SON  (imcitIn
Cecobod) ad take staps
to afel: a5ru5ato 5S SON
stall  ru-tIou La iSV ad
115 0.i;1U



ACTICOS TAUE  1Y COVER=             UASUUS TAU  M TO U9 TAU                     X ASWS IAS
ODJUCTMVIS                     PRIOR TO MARCH  1986                   UNDER fl  PCRANM               PIOR TO  OARDI PRZSMIUTl                  WaZ  ATICYS
PUBLIC SZCO  NAADIROM
[wren Ecconmic Policy                                                                                          Coenment set up
CoordLntiun                                                                                                    high-lintr Structural
EstabIlsh an em*mimc Ih&ams
aLt ."t  PM Sa C
Secrata,lats to expeditea
*eemie pelLy dacLsii
(Jam 1917).
Establish ocanic  polier
alt in 0.  Clarify
*ruahazatie.al i4 repsnia
~~~~  eiel hay
staff .
EnDOGS ITY ZCGUC
MANAOEDUT FUNCTrOUS:
A. Public Espo2dLture                                                                                          Dvoloped detailed                   Iploiant rersaniatiom and
organaltiac and staffLng            staff Streathbang  program
plns; for Pl--'ig and IPA           and   poieat My staff.
Dlvisios.
Implfeuntatia of fU                                                      Develop and impleent
recommandations an budgeting                                             rsstructcrlag plin for Waduet
and expenditure control                                                  DLvisLon.
arlsing frao technical
assistzne mission.
S.  ennement of EIternal MEP ixplwentLng [mproved                                                             Defined aid eoerdirateia            Iplement orsmnieatal and
Resources                          aid iaforntion systea under                                              responiLbilities  . staffing        staffing plan.
USD1 project.                                                            requiroemnts of IERD  IPA,
CPKU  and drev up plan to
integrate CPa   gradually into
XF1P(I[RD). Dr-v up
onauniztaten and stLffing
plan.
EstabiLsh eccomle liaLson
anLt (see above) to expedite
preassing of aid agreufta
and ppoiLt staf.



= 93 -      r~~~~ag-E 9
' ~  ~     - s               vurr @'S  1   ,  i[
2               1               -           ,XI'
,-! i~~~~~~~-
in               !:Ii13iB.



ACTIONS TAKEN BY OOVY1NRT          PSURZS TASl OR TO bE TAM                    IUASOZS TAS
ORJECTIVZS                      PRIOR TO MARCH 1986                   UIDER 1W  PROGRAM             PtRIR TO BOARD PRZSENTATIOS                MTQlELZ ACTIXS
PUDLIC SECTOR MAGMIN  REOoRMS --------
C. Management of Puble                                                                                        Establslnent of Project            iaplentatimk of agreed work
Sector Reform Program                                                                                      Managemt Unat.                      program for PM.
Appoiatat of full-tls
maner/coordinttor for
activities to be fi -ad
under IDA SAIS Credit.
Strangthn OffLce of Nead of
Civil ServiLe (1fl7-19U).
wIX
c14



- 9 5 -
- 5ANNEX  VI
Macro-Economic Projections                                       Page 1 of 4
6 NH   N At S E C T OR A  L   6 A OH  T H   R A T E S   0 F   G D P
....         ...       .......... .__ _ _..... ..-  ------       --------------
(in 1984 Prices)
Vaeu  Added By                         1995     1996      19817    198       1989    1M9        1991     1992      1993     1994      1995
Induutrial Sector                      16.12     6.41    13.0Z    12.8Z    23.52       6.22     4.80      5.2Z      5.22     5.22     5.21
Nining                               12.72    -1.11    19.02      9.91      9.1     9.21      5.92     3.92      3.62     3.02     3.BZ
Nanuf.                               19.0Z     7.0%    14.02    14.0Z    15.01       6.02      5.02     5.5Z      5.52     5.52      5.52
Utilities                            20.72     9.92    12.02    12.01    13.02       4.02      4.02     5.0Z      5.02     5.02     5.02
Construction                          6.02     7.01    ff.l0     11.02    11.02      6.02      4.02     5.02      5.02     5.0?      5.02
Agricultural Sector                     0.2!     4.82      1.82     2.86      2.71     3.52      3.52     3.12      3.12     3.02      3.02
Cocoa                                13.2Z    11.22     0.02      6.0Z      0.0Z     5.02     5.5Z      2.92      2.52     1.90      1.7Z
Forestry                             0.22      0.72     6.02    10.02       0.0?     6.12     5.52      5.02      5.02     5.02     5.02
Other                                -1.1%     4.52      1.7%     1.6Z      1.62     3.02      3.0?     3.02      3.02     3.02      3.01
Other Sectors                           6.2Z     5.42      6.01     5.62      5.32     4.02      4.42     4.62      4.62     4.61      4.6Z
Transport                             6.41     4.51      6.02     5.02      5.02     5.02      5.02     4.52      4.52     4.51      4.52
Iholesale I Retail                    9.12     6.22      6.52     6.2Z      5.7Z     5.02      4.52     4.8Z      4.02     4.02      4.5Z
Financial Services                    9.3Z     3.92      5.52     5.52      5.52     5.02      4.OZ     4.52      4.52     4.52      4.52
Public Adu.n.                         4.12     1.52      2.01     2.0Z      2.02     2.1%      2.22     2.3Z      2.42     2.51      2.6Z
Other Services                        3.9Z     3.02      4.02     4.02      4.02     4.D2      4.02     4.0%      4.02     4.0%      4.02
BP Groutb Rate                          5.12     5.3%      5.01     5.32      5.3Z     4.52      4.12     4.12      4.12     4.02      4.02
SH  A N A: S E C T O R A L   D l S T R I E u T I D  N   O F   E O P
(in 1984 Prices)
Sector                       1904      1985     1986      1997     1988      1909     1990      1991     192       1993     1994      1995
Industrial Sector            10.62    11.72    11.BI    12.02    13.72    14.92    15.01    15.12    15.32    15.51    15.62    15.0Z
Mining                      1.22      1.32     1.2%      1.4Z     1.42      1.52     1.52      1.6Z     1.62      1.62     1.5      1.52
Manui.                      6.42      7.22     7.4%      0.02     6.62      9.42     9.62     9.7Z      9.02      9.92    10.1%    10.2Z
Utilities                   0.82      0.9Z     1.02      1.0Z     1.1Z      1.22     1.22      1.22     2.22      1.2Z     1.22      l.22
Construction                2.2Z      2.3Z     2.3%      2.42     2.6Z     2.71      2.7Z     2.72      2.82      2.9Z     2.02      2.92
Agricultural Sector          49.22    46.9Z    46.72    45.32    44.21    43.2%    42.9Z    42.52    42.22    41.82    41.42    41.OZ
Cocoa                       4.1Z     4.4%      4.72     4.5Z      4.62     4.71      4.71     4.82      4.02      4.71     4.62      4.5Z
Forestry                    3.42     3.32      3.12     3.2Z      3.3X     3.41      3.4Z     3.51      3.5Z      3.61     3.62      3.62
Other                      41.62    39.2%    38.9%    37.72    3b.42    35.12    34.62    34.2Z    33.91    33.52    33.22    32.9Z
Other Sectors                40.3Z    41.42    41.5Z    41.92    42.12    42.12    42.2Z    42.32    42.51    42.0Z    43.01    43.22
Transport                   6.42     6.52      6.52     6.52      6.5Z     6.52      6.52      6.6Z     6.61     6.71      6.72      6.7Z
Unolesale & Retail         20.3%    29.32    29.62    30.0%    30.31    30.42    30.62    34.72    30.91    31.12    31.42    31.62
Financial Services          1.7X      1.02     1.02      1.8Z     1.82      1.02     1.38      1.B0     1.0I      1.02     1.82      1.82
Public Adoin.               3.42      3.32     3.22      3.1Z     3.0?      2.92     2.9Z      2.82     2.8!      2.7%     2.72      2.72
Other Services              0.52      0.52     0.52      0.42     D.4Z      0.42     0.42      0.4Z     0.42      0.42     0.42      0.42
fiP                         100.OZ   100.OZ   100.0Z   100.0Z   100.O   100.02   100.0Z   100.0Z   100.02   100.02   100.0Z   109.02
Source: Bank staff estiates.



-96 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 4
6 H A N Ai  B  A S I C   E I P E N D I T U R E    I ND I C A T 0 R S
(in 1904 Prices)
Indlcator                     1996      1905      196      197        YB9      1989     1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
ImportsJ6SP                   10.7X     11.1    Il.B1    12.71    12.9X    13.01    13.0X    12.91    12.8?    12.71    12.51    12.41
Exports/GW                     9.0%      9.32    10.11    10.2!    10.61    10.9X    10.9%          1.IX    11.0     10.91    10.6!    10.5Z
Consueption/6DP               95.1%    95.3%    92.5!    90.91        0.IX   B66.0       85.91    65.4%    95.1!       4.7      84.46    B4.1Z
Total Invntunt/6DP             7.6%      7.31      q.1!    11.6%    14.3!    15.5Z    16.2%    16.4%    16.9!    17.2%    17.5!    17.91
Source: Dank staff stimntes.



- 97 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
ENANAs EIALANCE  IF PATINENT!
(is HIlilns of Current USSI
-a
Cateory                      1914       M       196      1597      1908     1939     IM        11       R92       IM       1"4      aM
___~~~~~~~%%                  _ _ _ .  _%%%                %*%f    -boff      %-%%4   '%-%%-    6V%f    ^-#    %"%           -%
Epwtu                         m0       471       oil      13       8         975     l47       1154     1241.    1333      143      1529
Nirchiosd  1ab)             54       42        77       777      045       920      992      10%      1279     1247      1357     1453
N.-Factw Servien             38       39        45       55       53        55       55        51       62        44       70       75
Iqerts                        *10      974      q55      1100     1210      1309     149       1514     102      1750      1967     2000
iHrchuiu  Itifl             Al       721       780      9I       995      1072     1159    1253       1353     1451      1541     1471
IUI14ACtor Servicn          129      149       175      20       225       237      250       263      277      292       307      324
Remurce hlance               -204     -204      -1317    -248     -312      -335     -342      -342     -CV       -416     -440     -472
FKctr Paymnts (Net)           -I      -111      -105     -113      -125     -125     -119      -113     -107      -106     -113     -119
of which: Internt           -79     -106     -101      -103     -121      -121     -If9      -113     -106     -105      -107     -110
Net Trnsfrs                    73       32       4U        50       s0       120       140      150      141       172      I         1"
Currat Balance               -215     -233      -193     -331     -357      -340     -339      -324     -335      -352     -34      -3*
Capital kcont                  54      146       137      439       473      446      401       413      440       440      422       434
rants                       141       93       115      161       157      194      215       213      206       199      192       195
Official tL                 70       32        9!      252       235      211      195       191      209      209       206       209
Diasb.rsments            211      2Z7      35        419      425       394      365      360       33       349       319      394
Amortization            -141     -255     -259      -144     -190      -185     -170     -149      -155     -160      -172     -185
Private Clti                  4        5        I1       24       38        21      -26       -11        4        12        4        12
Other                      -121       34       -95        2        41       20      1         20       21       21        19        10
Ovrall IBlalCe               -121     -117       -54      L0B      121       106       62        87      105       Be        54       41
Net IIF                     214      122        17      -23      -98       -30      -74       -62      -69      -66       -St      -45
Ar!eru Paymts               -41      -57        -4      -24      -72       -73        0         0        0        0         0        0
Source: Dank staff nti.tn.



- 9g -
6 H A N Ai  V OL LU M  E   O F   E I P O R T S                     ANNgeX  VI
------------- -- ----------  ----Page 4of 4
Product                        1994      1905     1906      1907      199       19909     1990      191       1292      1993      1994     1995
Cocoa OAM                   164139   191706   214114   214114   231244   249743   264191   270639   206441   293602   2900136   303916
Loq (CHI                    140000   247012   397b10    121551   463706   500002   531S51   560575   589604   618034   640936   681393
Bald IF01)                  295759   269902   296013   343216   377539   425291   456920   495600   505024   525225   546234   560094
Oiamnd (Carat)              323000   489699   494075   592090   696566   696566   606566   686566   696566   696566   686566   606566
Manganese (NT!              241000   256665   243032   256267   266510   273447   290557   217571   294760   302129   309682   317424
il Residuals INT)           124445   192890   123449   166657   166657   166657   166657   166657   166657   166157   166157   16665?
Electricity Inn kwh)           624      1529      2929      3111      3579      3579      3579      3570      3579     3570       3570     3570
Bauxite (NT)                 44000   146520   190476   247619   346666   399666   450466   459466   451466   458466   459466   459466
6 H AN  A:  E X P O R I   P R I C E   I N D I C E S
Product                        1994     1995      1996      1987      1908      1909      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994     1995
, ___ *- -*-. -*^ ** -^-- ---*-  %%%-k,% -b,%%     &N    *%-.%%       %%        %%-.     %,.%%     -,b%b     %.4%    '.%%lb    *%%.    %%
Cocoa                           1O0        93       105       96        91        90        9O        94        08       102       107       111
Log                             100        79       04        09        95        99       104       110       115       120       125       131
Gold                           1OO         08       103      106       110       114       119       123       128       134       141      147
Diamond                         1OO       100      115       218       122       126       131       136       143       149       156      163
Manganese                       100       102       102      105       100       114       117       120       126       131       137       144
Oil Residuals        '100                  92       72        75        77        79        93        93       103       115       129       143
Electricity                     100        69       55        55        55        55        55        55        57        59       bi        64
Bauxite                         100       110       10o      115       120       120       125       130       136       143       149      156
6 H A N A:  E I P O R T S    I N   C U R R E N T   P R I C E S
fin million of USO
Product                       1984      1985      1986      1997      1998      1989      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994      1995
Cocoa                          382       412       519       475       490       524       554       609       652      697       739       764
Log                              21       29        47        53        62        71        79        09        96       105      115       126
Bold                            103       92       106       131       150       171       195       215       234      254       277       301
Diaouwd                           3         5        5         6         B         8         a         9         9        10        10       10
Nanqanus.                         9        9         a         9        10        10        11        11        12        1;        14       15
Oil Residuals                    23       33        16        23        24        24        26        29        32        35       40        44
Electricity                    -20        33        49        54        63        63        63        63        65        68       70        73
Bauxite                           1        4         5         6         9        11        13        14        14        15        16       16
Other                             5        17       16        18        30        38        45        60        65        70       76        93
Exports of Goods               566       632       773       777       045       920       992      1096      1179      1267     1357      1453
mon-Factor Services             30        39        45        55        53        55        55        So        62        66       70        75
Total Exports                  604       671       018       032       098       975      1047      1154      1241      1333     1420      1528
Source: Bank staff estimates.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 18112R1
BSU F K I N A n" ~  F A S O              .umq          (                      II-
UPPER  E A S T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. u ms.vta
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W IW                                RSSl.in-  nl  rt o2  
-                   E                           R t ~ .,,> 1 U P PRE G I .
*    >   X~WY E S T                    ,Iw                  qae
o                          F ~~~     R  E CR EGIIC N 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TML                                    L By/ I 0 
hfrb.hu   I~~~~~~~~~~~1.Vhu#k, .p-
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N ft ;.wm W )           cn 
-\s~~~   ~ ~~~~~~   manS.,)                                      _.7 %
It ~~~~~~~~  .s.mc'..  14P100,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. W. %.VN.f
, i             CAPE COAST            ,         C  -w -  -  tO
SEKCNW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NWM w
4S)  i  Atm'      7- TAKONOI
f                  -                      r".g.  tbit          f \     /  O           ,
1Ns0  R  T  H  E  r  N   BR  E  G   u       \ ~~~~~~~~~~~ARCH198
LU ~         '\                 W1                                                w Wnr ._ Wb W
I,* 0e 0                         °RAGION                    w                   A f I I C A
!~ ~~~~I                                          G ;  \>EJina srfsnF;St 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~\A\
-         C    E N\T  R\A            tACC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'rA  0
W      - Si T   I  ^E ROS N5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
r mh              A--r                   e  -.
111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MrC 198



