OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS1
CREDIT NUMBER 1777 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                         , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1777 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) nd INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
March 2, 1987, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Association in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association,
acting as Administrator of a Special Facility for Sub-Saharan
Africa (the African Facility) established by its Executive
Directors by Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, to provide
additional assistance in support of the Program, and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Association   (the  African  Facility   Credit  Agreement),   the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance (the African
Facility Credit) in the aggregate principal amount of sixty-four
million Special Drawing Rights (0DR 64,000,000);
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain additional assistance
towards the financing of the Program from other donors; and
(D) on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, the Associa-
tion has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:


﻿"'Project" means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.';
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(c) "African Facility Credit Account" means the African
Facility Credit Account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of the
African Facility Credit Agreement; and
(d) "Project    Preparation  Advance"   means   the   project
preparation advance of seven hundred fifty thousand dollars
($750,000) equivalent granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 1, 1986 and July 31,
1986 between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower,, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 26,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the


﻿-4-
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section  2.07.  The   Borrower  shall  repay  the   principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August I commencing August 1, 1997 and ending
February 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Bank of Ghana is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Ghana with respon-
sibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under
the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such
applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the extent
practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than six hundred thousand dollars
($600,000) equivalent.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, the Bor-
rower s arrangements to monitor such progress and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have   the records and accounts referred      to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-6-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's    representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors    as
to   whether   the  statements   of   expendiLures
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90 days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Provisional National Defence Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Provisional National Defence
Council Secretary for Finance and
Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                   Telex:
ECONOMICOM                        2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(%e       Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I abcve, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
,atches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿- 10 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
-        971.0              Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding an amount equivalent to SDR 5,380,000 may be made
on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1987;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(g) expenditures for petroleum and petroleum products after
proceeds of the Credit and the African Facility Credit
in an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR 15,800,000
have been withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
African Facility Credit Account to finance petroleum
and petroleum products; and
(h) expenditures for food grains.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the African Facility Credit after the aggregate
of: (A) the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account; (B) the proceeds of the African Facility Credit
withdrawn   from  the   African  Facility   Credit  Account;   and
(C) the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of SDR 45,500,000, unless the Association shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section
3.01 of this Agreement:


﻿- 11 -
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the
Association.
4.   If, after such exchange of views, the Association is not so
satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the
Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Credit unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any
part thereof.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, contracts for the
procurement of goods shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice    in  the  United  Nations  publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As  a  further  alternative, bidding   documents  may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 13 -
2.   (a) Contracts for petroleum and petroleum products commonly
traded on the international market may be awarded on the basis of
the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such items.
(b) Contracts for goods to be procured by the Borrower or
its political subdivisions estimated to cost less than $1,000,000
equivalent for   each contract may be awarded on the basis of the
Borrower's procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Contracts for goods procured by private entities and
state-owned enterprises estimated to cost less than $2,000,000
equivalent for each contract may be awarded on the basis of the
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of such items,
such procedures to be satisfactory to the Association in the case
of procurement by state-owned enterprises.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior  to   the  submission  to  the  Association   of  the  first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together   with  the   analysis  of   the   respective  bids   and
recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior  to   the  submission  to  the  Association   of  the  first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Association   may  reasonably   request   to  support   withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Announcement by the Borrower of a program and timetable
which allows the import of consumer goods with funds obtained
through the Borrower's foreign exchange auction system and the
carrying out of said program (including related tax and tariff
reforms) in accordance with said timetable.
2.   Announcement by the Borrower of a cocoa producer price for
1987/88 and determination by the Borrower of a cocoa producer
price for 1988/89.
3.   The carrying out of measures to restructure the Ghana Cocoa
Board, and preparation and transmittal to the Association of a
plan of actions, objectives and policies including a financial
plan (the corporate plan) for 1987/88 through 1989/90 for the
Ghana Cocoa Board.
4.   Preparation  and  transmittal   to  the Association   of  the
1988-90 medium-term public expenditure program.
5.   Putting up for sale of at least five State-owned enterprises
(including the State Fishing Corporation), and initiating the
liquidation of at least five State-owned enterprises.
6.   Completion of corporate plans for at least 10 State-owned
enterprises and of draft performance agreements for four of said
enterprises; signed performance agreement with Ghana Cocoa Board.
7.   Reduction by at least 15,000 of the number of people on the
payroll of the Civil Service and the Ghana Education Service
during 1987; identification of further surplus employees to be
removed from said payrolls during 1988.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(b) the   term  "Authorized   Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent
amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.


﻿- 17 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall. so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such


﻿- 18 -
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


