OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
SWEDISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1777 GH
Development Grant Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated                         , 1988


﻿SWEDISH GRANT RELATED CREDIT NUMBER 1777 GH
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1988, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of a Grant
provided by the SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(SIDA).
WHEREAS, the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
Government of Sweden (Sweden) acting through SIDA in the financing
of a program described in the letter of Development Policy dated
March 2, 1987, referred to in Recital A of the Development Credit
Agreement dated May 19, 1987, between the Recipient and the
Association (IDA Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned request, SIDA
wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in amount of
twenty million Swedish Kronor (SEK 20,000,000) (the Swedish Grant)
and has, pursuant to an agreement of even date herewith between
SIDA and the Association (the Administration Agreement), appointed
the Association as Administrator of said Swedish Grant for the
purpose of providing assistance to the Recipient;
WHEREAS, the Recipient acknowledges that the financial
assistance extended to the Recipient under this Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by
Sweden to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS, the Association, as Administrator as hereinbefore
mentioned has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to
extend the Swedish Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" (the General Conditions) of the Association,
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof:


﻿-2-
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of the Swedish Grant pursuant to the provisions
of the Administration Agreement;
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c) the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Swedish Grant hereunder;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the Account opened by the Association in its
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the
Swedish Grant is credited;
(e) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish
Grant pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement;"
(f) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, the
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution
of the Project referred to in the Preamble to the
Development Grant Agreement, the performance by the
Recipient and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Swedish
Grant";
(g) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.C2, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions are deleted; and
(h) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the
term "Association" shall include also the Association acting in
its own capacity.


﻿-3-
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement the following
terms "Swedish Kronor" and "SEK" mean the currency of Sweden.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or
referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty million Swedish Kronor
(SEK 20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Swedish Grant may be
withdrawn from the Swedish Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the IDA Credit Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement among the
parties, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant.
(b) Withdrawals from the Swedish Grant Account shall be made
in the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant have been paid
or are payable or, at the option of the Administrator in Swedish
Kronor.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, contracts for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the SIDA Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, which is hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if it were fully set forth herein. The references to the
Association in said Schedule shall be deemed to be references to
the Association acting as Administrator of the SIDA Grant.
(b) If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no
expenditures for any such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the SIDA Grant, and the Administrator may, by notice
to the Recipient, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this
Agreement, cancel such amount of the SIDA Grant as, in the


﻿-4-
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the SIDA Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989, or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Program
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all
references in such Articles III and IV to the "Association" shall
be deemed to be references to the Association, as Administrator on
behalf of the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden under this
Agreement, all references to the "Development Credit Agreement"
shall be deemed to be references to this Development Grant Agree-
ment and all references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be
references to the Swedish Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Recipient and the Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 6.01
of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the
IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agree-
ment, the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement may be transferred to SIDA. The Recipient accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to
that effect, SIDA shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in
such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as if SIDA had been an original
party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality
required on the part of any party, and from such date the Admini-
strator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party
under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By       kiC                a
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By             N
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


