Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: 43609:   
Project Name 
Jamaica Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan 
Region 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Sector 
Sustainable Development 
–
Urban and Water Cluster  
Project ID 
P109575 
Borrower(s) 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
Implementing Agency 
Jamaica Social Investment Fund 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
X
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
November 21, 2007 
Date of Decision Meeting 
November 29, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
December 20, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Jamaica’s economic performance has improved considerably in the last two fiscal years. The GDP 
growth of 2.5% in FY 06/07 was the highest in a decade and represented an increase from 1.8 % in the 
previous year. Growth was fueled by strong foreign and domestic private investment, notably in tourism. 
The annual rate of inflation fell from over 13.2% in FY04/05 to 6.6 in FY 06/07 in line with the MTF 
target. The progress achieved in the last two years reflects careful policies, enhanced credibility of the 
monetary authority and the impetus of a favorable global environment. Despite this progress, Jamaica is 
one of the larger Caribbean economies with income below the regional average and since the late 1990s 
has had a high debt-to-GDP ratio (estimated at 108.6 for the FY 07/08) which limits policy 
maneuverability. 
 
Caribbean States are highly vulnerable to natural disasters--on average, one major hurricane affects a 
country in the region every 2 years--and have only limited options available to respond. Jamaica was one 
of the participants of the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance (CCRI) which came to effect June 1, 
2007
1
.
The CCRI is a regional disaster insurance facility designed to provide participating governments 
immediate liquidity if hit by a hurricane or earthquake. For hurricanes, the CCRIF is triggered by a 
formula that determines severity of impact according to sustained wind speeds and the population density 
of affected areas, rather than by the value of damage. It is designed to pay out only for a really serious or 
"catastrophic" event - roughly a 1-in-20 year event. Hurricane Dean, despite causing considerable damage 
to Jamaica, was a roughly 1-in-10 year event for the island and therefore did not trigger a payment.  
 
Hurricane Dean
2
Jamaica suffered extensive damage due to the passage of Hurricane Dean on August 19, 2007. 
Weather conditions associated with Hurricane Dean started to affect Jamaica, especially eastern parishes 
on the morning of Sunday August 19
th
.
These conditions spread westward to impact the entire island. As 
the eye of the Hurricane moved closer to the island weather conditions progressively deteriorated. Data 
collection associated with the passage of Hurricane Dean was limited due to a number of challenges: (a) 
1
CCRIF participating governments are: Anguilla, Antigua & Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, 
Dominica, Grenada, Haiti, Jamaica, St Kitts & Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent & the Grenadines, Trinidad & Tobago, Turks and 
Caicos Islands. 
2
This section draws extensively from the Preliminary Assessment of the Socio-Economic and Environmental Impact of 
Hurricane Dean on Jamaica prepared by the Planning Institute of Jamaica, September 2007 
Page  2
2
the main weather station located in the Norman Manley International Airport was blown down on Sunday 
midday, (b) data from other weather stations was limited due to communication difficulties, (c) rainfall 
data was limited as a result of the loss of a number of rain gauges and the fact than manual collection of 
data from most of the stations in remote areas was not possible due to inaccessible roadways. 
 
The projected population of Jamaica when Hurricane Dean struck the island was 2.68 million. 
Approximately 10 percent of the total population or some 266,326 persons from 170 communities were 
directly affected by the natural disaster. The Ministry of Health confirmed six deaths due to the hurricane 
and 630 persons injured. Approximately 1,237 children plus their respective care givers were affected by 
damage to 19 residential Child Care Facilities. The farming community was amongst the most severely 
affected by the hurricane, due to location of the area most impacted as well as the overall impact on the 
agricultural sector. It is estimated that the livelihoods of around 11,000 persons were directly or indirectly 
affected by the event. 
 
Damage to the education sector was significant. Preliminary reports from the Ministry of Education 
and Youth indicate that 518 schools and public educational institutions sustained damage worth US$ 10 
million. The damage to schools was mostly roofs, structures, sanitary facilities and fences. Damage losses 
to the health sector totaled US$ 4 million. Critical facilities with structural damage have been identified. 
While direct damage to road infrastructure was relatively small estimates suggest US$ 15 million will be 
needed to re-open and repair the infrastructure to minimize long-term disruption of social and economic 
activities.  
 
The total damage is estimated to be US$326.94 million. Due to the impact of the hurricane the 
economic growth targets have been adjusted from 2.1% to 1.1%
3
.
Damage and losses in the productive 
sector represented the greatest portion of impact accounting for over 50.0 percent of the estimated total.  
There was also significant damage to the environment, Jamaica’s infrastructure, schools, and public 
institutions, as well as a substantial social cost.   
Governm
ent’s Strategy 
 
In preparation for Hurricane Dean a fully functional National Emergency Operations Centre (NEOC) 
was activated on August 18
th
 and a mandatory evacuation order was issued for some 25 coastal and flood 
prone communities. In response to the impact of the event, the Office of Disaster Preparedness and 
Emergency Management (ODPEM) carried out several emergency activities such as aerial reconnaissance 
flights, damage assessment field visits, food drops and delivery of critical relief supplies in the days 
following the event. Overall 213 shelters were opened housing 5,200 persons. In addition, the GoJ 
implemented two special hurricane relief benefits package for vulnerable households and pensioners. The 
cost of emergency activities coordinated and executed by the GoJ was estimated at US$8.6 million. 
 
The estimated cost of rehabilitation and reconstruction works is between US$ 257 
–
328 million. 
ODPEM initiated rehabilitation work focused on normalizing the living conditions of victims, while also 
continuing to reactivate economic activity in the areas affected. Activities to restore food, health, and 
employment needs were met through a series of actions taken by public and private sector and NGOs
4
.
The GoJ requested World Bank support for the reconstruction works which are the most crucial and 
should lead to the full re-establishment of normal living conditions and the country’s economic and social 
development and increase the resilience reducing the vulnerability. The GoJ seeks to bring about the 
3
Planning Institute of Jamaica, Preliminary assessment of the socio-economic and environmental impact of hurricane Dean on 
Jamaica. 
4
Including provision of food, potable water, medical attention, control and prevention of diseases, housing repair, improved 
sanitation services access to affected areas. These actions will overlap with the reconstruction efforts. 
Page  3
3
implementation of specific projects that should directly improve the conditions of the most vulnerable 
population and those living in Quartile IV communities. Additionally, the impact of Hurricane Dean 
highlighted issues relating to disaster preparedness that need to be tackled. In particular land use, building 
practices and standards, coastal roads and coastal ecosystems.  
2. Objectives 
 
The proposed project is a US$10 million IBRD Emergency Recovery Loan to support the 
Government of Jamaica in implementing its Sustainable Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Plan (SRRP) 
for recovery from the Hurricane Dean disaster, and to strengthen its ability to respond to future adverse 
natural events.  The 
proposed PDO for the project is to restore access to basic community 
infrastructure 
–specifically elementary schools, health centers and critical feeder roads— for 
selected communities and to strengthen the government’s ability to respond to future adverse 
natural disasters.
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has experience in disaster mitigation and can respond fast. Over the last seven years several 
disaster mitigation projects related to hurricane and other natural disaster effects have been approved 
including an Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, 
an Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program in The Commonwealth of Dominica, St. 
Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia, and a Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project in Nicaragua.  The 
recent participation of Bank specialists in the preparation of the CCRIF also increased the region-specific 
knowledge. The new guidelines on rapid response to crisis increase th
e
Bank’s ability to provide a fast, 
flexible and simple response, as well as the benefit of a project preparation advance
5
.
The project can build on the experience working with the GoJ in two on-going projects. The 
Government has a proven track record in implementing Bank projects.  There are currently two Bank 
loans under implementation in Jamaica worth US$ 45 million
6
.
The infrastructure components of the 
project are similar in nature and scope to the type of works that are already being implemented under a 
Bank’s project which will simplify project implementation. 
 
Donor Coordination.
 The Bank will work closely with other donors working in rehabilitation and 
reconstruction. To date DFID and USAID are the two agencies providing support for rehabilitation of 
damage due to Hurricane Dean. DFID is supporting rehabilitation of schools through a grant of 
257,000.00 for replacement of iron sheets for roofs. The grant is coordinated by UNDP. The final list of 
schools participating in the proposed loan will exclude those schools that have been selected to receive 
DFIF support. USAID is supporting the rehabilitation of damaged roofs in 86 houses as well as training 
on disaster response. The Bank will coordinate with USAID to discuss possible collaboration on training 
for ODPEM on disaster preparedness and response. 
 
4. Description 
 
The proposed loan will finance rehabilitation of education, healthcare and feeder roads infrastructure 
facilities. The preliminary project components are:  
a. Component 
1. 
Basic and Primary schools
.
The project will finance restoration of basic 
5
The GoJ has requested a US$ 1 million PPF to do preparatory work for the proposed loan. 
6
The Inner City Basic Services for the Poor (P091299) for US$ 30 million and the National Community 
Development Project (P076837) for US$ 15 million. 
Page  4
4
(Early Childhood) and primary schools infrastructure. Priority will be given to those 
schools that were built under the National Community Development Project (NCDP) and 
those located in Quartile IV localities
7
.
b. Component 2. 
Community Health Clinics.
 The project will finance restoration of 
Community Clinics including type I, II and III facilities.
8
c. Component 
3. 
Parochial / Feeder roads
.
The project will finance restoration of feeder 
roads infrastructure. Roads will be selected strategically on the basis of (i) access to 
productive infrastructure and (ii) access to health and educational facilities. 
d. Component 
4. 
Capacity Building for Disaster Preparedness
.
The project will finance 
studies and activities to strengthen the capacity to better respond to natural disasters 
taking into account lessons learnt from past events. 
 
Preliminary lists of the specific facilities that will be included in the project have been prepared by the 
Jamaica Social Infrastructure Fund (JSIF) in consultation with relevant line ministries. Reconstruction 
efforts under the project will go beyond rebuilding the damaged infrastructure and will aim for 
“building 
better,” taking into account existing best practices in disaster preparedness. 
 
The prioritization criteria for sub-projects to be taken up under each component would be first priority 
for any NCDP project that had been damaged by the hurricane followed by sub-projects falling in 
Quartile IV communities. For the parish roads an additional criteria would also be the critical feeder roads 
for transport of agricultural produce, given that the agricultural sector had been particularly hard-hit by 
the hurricane. While prioritizing the infrastructure works efforts would be made to take up integrated 
investments needed in an area damaged by the hurricane so that the entire program is coherent and had a 
measurable impact. For example, roads leading up to schools that had been damaged would be repaired 
along with the school. 
 
5. Financing 
Table 1 presents a preliminary list of project components, which will be financed 100% by the Bank .  
 
Table 1: Preliminary ERL components and estimates
 
Exchange Rate (US$1.00:J$70.00) 
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity 
Total 
US $million 
Bank Financing 
US $million 
Component 1: Repair / Reconstruction  
8.40
8.40
1.1 Basic Schools (Early Childhood 
Commission)  
1.80
1.80
1.2 Primary and All-Age Schools 
3.00
3.00
1.20
1.20
1.3 Community Health Clinics (Type I, II & III) 
1.4 Parish Council (Local Feeder) Roads 
2.40
2.40
7
The NCDP (P076837) is a US$15 million SIL approved by the Board in October 24, 2002 to the Government of Jamaica to 
finance the provision of basic services and temporary employment opportunities and assist the governme
nt’s efforts to promote 
social and community development, especially amongst the poor. 
8
The primary health centers in Jamaica are decentralized and an administrative unit of a hierarchy of health centers are classified 
as type 1 through 4. Type 1 health center was the smallest and the simplest health unit, and both type 2 and 3 health unit 
functioned as referral units for patients from type 1 health centers. 
 
Page  5
5
mponent 2
:
Capacity Building for Disaster 
Preparedness 
0.57
0.57
Component 3: Project Management 
1.00
1.00
Total Project Costs
Front-end fee of 0.25percent
9.97
0.03
9.97
0.03
Total Financing Required
10.00
10.00
6. Implementation 
 
The GoJ has indicated that JSIF will serve as the implementing agency for the proposed loan.  JSIF 
has an established track record in implementing GoJ poverty alleviation projects including the two 
ongoing Bank-financed projects referred to above.  JSIF has developed a core competence in Bank 
safeguard policies and financial management and procurement procedures. JSIF is also currently 
implementing OPEC, CDB and EU-financed social/community-level infrastructure investment programs 
along the lines of the NCDP initiative. JSIF has a well established management structure that aims to 
ensure efficiency, effectiveness and innovation in implementation. The Board of Directors, which meets 
on a monthly basis, will provide general oversight and policy direction during project implementation and 
will review the results of periodic monitoring and evaluation activities. For on-going projects a Steering 
Committee has been formed. This includes representatives from PIOJ, Cabinet Office, NSWMA, NHT, 
NHDC and the Ministries of Land and Environment, Water and Housing and Local Government and 
other agencies.  The Steering Committee has met on a bimonthly basis to review progress in preparation. 
It is expected that such a facility can also be applied to the proposed loan. 
 
JSIF internal management will participate in internal management reviews and bid evaluation 
committees and will give guidance to implementation activities.  Management review and committee 
meetings are held on a weekly basis.  The ICBSP unit within JSIF will be led by a Project Manager and 
will oversee daily implementation.  The project will recruit a full staff of supervision engineers, finance 
specialists, procurement specialists, community liaison officers, crime and violence specialists, social 
specialists, environmental and safeguards specialists and other administrative staff.   
 
Operations Manual
:
JSIF’s Operational Manual (OM) prescribes a project preparation and 
implementation process that involves participation of the project community at all key steps. This 
participatory process facilitates the consideration of environmental aspects as it integrates into the project 
cycle disclosure of project information to, and consultation with, the community.  The updated JSIF 
Operational Manual, approved by the JSIF Board on February 22, 2006, contains the key financial 
procedures that cover the needs of the project, including for the community subprojects. Procedures 
associated with the implementation of the microfinance subcomponent have been adequately developed in 
a
microfinance annex to the Operations Manual. Further improvements, including on budgeting, reporting 
and internal control procedures are included in the financial management chapter. The ICBSP operational 
manual is available at http://icbsp.jsif.org/. The existing Environment Management and Land Acquisition 
and Resettlement Policy Frameworks which are part of the JSIF Operations Manual and will be applied to 
the proposed loan.  
 
Coordination in Implementation
:
As in the other on-going projects, due to the multi-sectoral nature of 
the project, a range of partner public agencies, donors and external institutions will be associated with the 
implementation of project components. The project will rely on cooperation agreements – or MoU – with 
key project partners such as the Ministry of Education and Youth, the Ministry of Health and the Parish 
councils. 
Page  6
6
Inter-agency coordination
:
Given the broad spectrum of agencies that will be involved in the project, 
quarterly review meetings will be held with all partner agencies involved in implementation. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The infrastructure components of the project are similar in nature and scope to the type of works that 
JSIF, their consultants and contractors have been designing and implementing over the past 5 to 8 years. 
The buildings and local roads are generally simple, employing standard details and least cost design, and 
the quality of supervision and construction by JSIF and their contractors is good.   JSIF staff and 
managers have acquired extensive design and construction experience and also developed a 
comprehensive cost data base which will facilitate competitive bidding. Very few facilities built by JSIF 
through the Bank-financed National Community Development Project (NCDP) were reported to have 
been seriously damaged by Hurricane Dean. The technical ministries and parish councils have been 
relying on JSIF to deliver social and economic infrastructure of good quality and in a timely fashion. 
Maintenance by the communities is generally still weak, therefore this project will include in the 
construction contracts a 3-year maintenance period by the contractors in the construction contracts. 
 
The reconstruction program will aim to build back better wherever necessary and possible, especially 
with regard to resistance to a higher category of hurricane. Sanitation blocks with septic tanks will be 
added where feasible, and higher standards of construction will be used within the available financial 
envelope. In this context, the Ministry of Education has developed a draft improved building code and 
standards that could be used for the reconstruction program. Building on this work by the ministry, the 
project will finance technical assistance to disseminate better building standards and practices, and 
provide training materials and courses for contractors and communities. 
 
As far as parish council roads are concerned, building back better means that a better road base, 
improved drainage (ditches, culverts) and stabilization of slide areas (retaining walls), and other measures 
as necessary will be employed to build a higher quality road that will stand up to hurricane conditions and 
flooding. For schools and health clinics, building back better could mean relocating the facilities to a safer 
location in they are found to be in high-risk areas prone to future damages from natural disasters. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
To avoid reconstruction delays, streamlined decision-making and procedures for contracting civil 
works should be put in place early. 
Based on the experience during reconstruction after Hurricane Ivan in 
2004 a cabinet-approved emergency procurement procedure should be employed to speed up contract 
awards. Also JSIF, an experienced implementation agency that was already involved in the Hurricane 
Ivan reconstruction program will be responsible for project implementation.   
 
In countries prone to natural disasters, emergency projects should seek to mainstream disaster 
mitigation. 
Appropriate better design standards to withstand higher category (strength) hurricanes have 
been drafted by the government. Building and infrastructure designs are being prepared with recurrent 
disasters in mind. Training and other suitable means of dissemination will be employed to promote wider 
use of the higher building standards. 
 
Infrastructure maintenance is one of the most important features that can be used to protect against 
future disasters. 
Maintenance for the first three years will be included in the construction contracts while 
efforts will be made to motivate and train the responsible agencies and communities to take on 
maintenance of the facilities. 
 
Supervision needs to be relatively intensive. 
Emergency loans are put together over a much shorter 
time period; so many details are left to be defined during project implementation. Flexibility will be 
Page  7
7
required to deal with changing post-disaster conditions; therefore more supervision effort will be applied 
to this project. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Environmental Assessment
(OP
/BP
4.01)               
 X
Natural Habitats (OP
/BP
4.04) 
Pest Management (OP 4.09
)
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)               
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP
/BP
4.12
)
…………….X
 
Indigenous Peoples (OP
/BP
4.10) 
Forests (OP
/BP
4.36) 
Safety of Dams (OP
/BP
4.37) 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP
/BP
7.60)
*
Projects on International Waterways (OP
/BP
7.50) 
 
9.1 The project is considered Ca
tegory “B”, and OP 4.01 is triggered.  All works are expected to be small 
scale, generating only minor and localized environmental impacts that can be easily identified, mitigated 
and managed.  Works will focus on rehabilitation and improvement of existing buildings and feeder roads 
that were damaged during the hurricane.  No large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts are 
expected.  In the education sector, only early childhood and primary/basic schools will be rehabilitated.  
In the health sector, only level 1-3 health facilities (e.g. no hospitals) will receive rehabilitation and 
repairs.  In the road sector, only the rehabilitation of parish council roads will be included, with works 
taking place within existing rights-of-way. The largest impacts may be associated with cases where 
damaged schools are located in particularly risk-prone areas; in these cases, the project would aim to 
finance not just their rehabilitation, but also their relocation to a new and safer site, if and where land is 
available.  Nonetheless, all potential subprojects fall within the range of types of subprojects already 
financed by JSIF, and therefore also within the scope of JSIF’s existing environmental management 
procedures as laid out in the Environmental Management Framework developed under the ICBSP project 
and applicable to all JSIF investments.  Such procedures  – including site screening, public consultations 
and information dissemination, inclusion of EMPs in bidding documents, and supervision of 
environmental aspects during construction – and will be applied to all investments under the ERL. 
9.2 As with any project involving civil works, particularly in populous areas and on existing buildings, 
the possibility of impacts to physical cultural resources exists.  OP 4.11 is therefore also triggered.  JSIF’s 
Environmental Management Framework includes provisions to identify any impacts to physical cultural 
resources as part of the environmental screening process for subprojects, and “chance find” procedures 
are included in all works contracts.  Given the project’s focus on rehabilitating existing infrastructure, no 
impacts to natural habitats are expected; nonetheless, JSIF’s comprehensive environmental screening 
checklist includes questions to verify at the subproject level that no natural habitats impacts will occur, 
and to ensure subprojects are redesigned to avoid any such impacts if identified. 
9.3. No involuntary resettlement is anticipated under the project. Most works will consist of rehabilitation 
of existing infrastructure, particularly roofs which were lost or damaged during the hurricane.  Regarding 
the rehabilitation of parish council feeder roads, JSIF’s prior experience with these sorts of roads is that 
the rights-of-way are generally free of squatters or other encumbrances (such as land use for livelihood 
means).  However as a matter of abundant caution OP 4.12  is considered to be triggered, and any 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
8
potential instances of resettlement will be handled as per the existing procedures outlined in JSIF’s Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Framework, which was developed under the ICBSP project and currently 
applies to all JSIF-financed investments. 
9.4 JSIF’s capacity to implement the required measures was reviewed during preparation of the proposed 
loan, and was deemed to be sufficient to absorb the additional workload generated by the proposed 
project’s activities.  A full-time Environmental Officer (EO) oversees all aspects of implementing the 
EMF, including ongoing training and “refresher courses” for JSIF social and technical staff who work 
with communities, conduct site screenings and design mitigation measures at the subproject level.  
Environmental screening information is fully integrated into JSIF’s Monitoring Information System 
(MIS), and the EO plays and active role in reviewing and providing quality control (through follow-up 
site visits when necessary) on the screening and subsequent definition of necessary mitigation measures 
for each subproject.  The EO coordinates with JSIF’s Legal Officer with respect to all land acquisition 
and land tenure issues, to ensure appropriate documentation is on file and to ensure projects are 
redesigned or re-sited when possible to avoid causing involuntary resettlement.  If resettlement is 
necessary, the EO and Legal Officer would coordinate to oversee implementation of required measures. 
9.5 JSIF’s capacity will furthermore continue to be strengthened during the lifetime of the proposed 
operation, through the project management component as well as through the ongoing parallel 
implementation of the ICBSP project. In addition, JSIF is currently seeking ISO 14001 certification for its 
environmental management systems, and is on track to complete the certification process by October 
2008.  The agency’s commitment to mainstreaming environmental management responsibilities and 
awareness into all aspects of its operations is solid.  Areas for further strengthening of JSIF’s capacity 
relate to better streamlining of the environmental monitoring system in the MIS, and continuation of 
ongoing training of project officers to conduct screening of environmental and land acquisition issues.  
Both of these challenges are being actively worked on by the EO.   
9.6 Initial consultations on JSIF’s Environmental Management Framework and Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Framework took place during the preparation of the ongoing ICBSP project. Given that the 
ICBSP project is considered a “country systems pilot” project for safeguards, an extensive Equivalence 
and Acceptability Assessment was prepared as part of the process of developing the two Frameworks 
mentioned above.  JSIF, the National Environmental and Planning Agency (NEPA) and the Bank jointly 
organized a public consultation workshop on November 1, 2005 attended by over sixty people, 
representing NGOs, consultants, donor agencies, and other Government departments to discuss the 
Equivalence and Acceptability Assessment.  The participants expressed their support to the proposed pilot 
approach and endorsed the proposed gap filling measures.  JSIF then conducted consultations on January 
13, 2006, on the Land Acquisition & Resettlement Policy Framework and the Environmental 
Management Framework, with participation by representatives of all 12 beneficiary communities under 
ICBSP and NGOs.  A total of 73 persons participated in the consultation, which endorsed the 
Frameworks.  Feedback from communities was also solicited through a rapid voluntary questionnaire to 
which over 34 percent of households responded.  Since then, ongoing outreach and feedback solicitation 
has taken place though the implementation of subprojects under ICBSP, including frequent informal 
dialogues between JSIF community liaison officers (CLO), technical consultants and community leaders 
and residents.    
 
9.7   In addition, community participation is an integral part of the preparation of each subproject.  Once a 
subproject is identified by JSIF and the line ministry as a priority to be financed under the Emergency 
Recovery Loan, a JSIF Social Officer will visit the community and discuss project design aspects with 
local stakeholders.  Local perspectives and views – including on potential environmental and social 
management aspects – are thus taken into consideration in the earliest phases of subproject design.  Given 
the urgency of getting works underway for the purposes of speedy recovery from the effects of Hurricane 
Dean, the design process will be somewhat more centrally managed; nonetheless, a point will be made to 
Page  9
9
ensure communities are aware of designs and have the opportunity to provide input. When construction 
activities are to get underway, information on the nature and scope of works is furthermore posted at the 
site.   
 
10. Contact point 
Abhas K. Jha, 
Senior Infrastructure Specialist, 
The World Bank, 
1818 H Street NW, 
Washington DC 20433 
Tel: 202-458-1050 
Email: ajha@worldbank.org 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
