                                          Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                          ReportNo: 41552- JM




                                 EMERGENCYPROJECTPAPER

                                              ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                             INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$10MILLION

                                               TO

                                           JAMAICA

                                             FORAN

                     HURRICANEDEANEMERGENCYRECOVERY LOAN




                                        December4,2007




Sustainable Development Department
CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit
Latin America andthe CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricted distributionand may be usedby recipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. Itscontentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank
authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate EffectiveNovember 20,2007

                          Currency Unit = Jamaica Dollars (J$)
                                65.12J$ = US$1

                                  FISCALYEAR
                                April 1   - March31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-Based Organization
CDB      Caribbean Development Bank
CDD      Community-Driven Development
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CLO      Community LiaisonOfficer
CPAR     Country ProcurementAssessment Report
DFID     Department for International Development (UK)
EL4      Environmental Impact Assessment
EMF      Environmental ManagementFramework
EMP      Environmental ManagementPlan
EU       EuropeanUnion
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GoJ      Government of Jamaica
HDER     Hurricane Dean EmergencyRecovery (Loan)
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICBSP    InnerCities Basic Services for the Poor (Project)
IFR      Interim Financial Reports
JPS Co.  Jamaica Public ServicesCompany
JSIF     Jamaica Social Investment Fund
LARPF    Land Acquisition and ResettlementPolicy Framework
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Monitoring Information System
MTF      Medium Term Socio-Economic Policy Framework
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NCDP     National Community Development Project
NDP      National Disaster Plan
NEOC     National EmergencyOperations Centre
NEPA     National Environment and PlanningAgency
NHDC     National Housing Development Corporation
NHT      National Housing Trust
NSWMA    National Solid Waste Management Agency
NWA      National Works Agency
ODPEM    Office of Disaster Preparedness and Emergency Management
O M      Operations Manual
PCA      ProcurementCapacity Assessment
PFM      Public Financial Management
PIOJ     Planning Institute of Jamaica

          PRA            Participatory Rapid Appraisals
          SBD            StandardBidding Documents                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
          SDC            Social Development Commission
          SOE            Statements ofExpenditure
          USAID          United States Agency for International Development




                                         Vice President:      PamelaCox
                                       Country Director:      Yvonne M.Tsikata
                                         Sector Director      Laura Tuck
                                     Task Team Leader:       Abhas K.Jha




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                         TABLEOF CONTENTS



EMERGENCY OPERATION PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET                                                  .........................................................     1

A. INTRODUCTION  ...............................................................................................................................         2

B EMERGENCY CHALLENGE: COUNTRY CONTEXT, RECOVERY STRATEGY, AND
 .
  RATIONALEFOR PROPOSEDBANK EMERGENCY PROJECT                                                           ..............................................   3

C. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY                         ............................................................................................       5

D. APPRAISAL OF PROJECTACTIVITIES                           ......................................................................................       8

E. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTSAND FINANCINGPLAN                                                                .......................................    12

F
.  PROJECTRISKSAND MITIGATING MEASURES                                          ..................................................................       15

G. TERMS AND CONDITIONS FORPROJECT FINANCING                                                 ......................................................      17




ANNEXES


ANNEX 1: DETAILEDDESCRIPTIONOF PROJECTCOMPONENTS                                                          ..........................................     18

ANNEX 2: RESULTSFRAMEWORKAND MONITORING                                            ...............................................................      21

ANNEX 3: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATEDPROJECTCOSTS                                            .............................................................      27

ANNEX 4: FINANCIALMANAGEMENTAND DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS                                                                                 ................28
ANNEX 5: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS                                 ................................................................................       34

ANNEX 6: IMPLEMENTATIONAND MONITORINGARRANGEMENTS                                                                ....................................   38

ANNEX 7: PROJECTPREPARATION AND SUPERVISIONTEAM                                                    ................................................     40

ANNEX 8: ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS                                               .........................................................     41

ANNEX 9: DOCUMENTSI NTHE PROJECTFILE                                .............................................................................       48

ANNEX 10: STATEMENT OF LOANSAND CREDITS                                   .......................................................................       49

ANNEX 11: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                 .................................................................................................         51


Date: December 4, 2007                                                      Team Leader: Abhas K.Jha
Country Director: Yvonne M.Tsikata                                          Sectors: Basic Infrastructure
Sector Director: Laura Tuck                                                 Services
Project ID: P109575                                                         Themes: Hazard Risk
                                                                            Management
                                                                            EnvironmentalCategory: B




Expected effectiveness date:
March 1, 2008                             Expectedhevised closing date: June 30, 2011

Development objective: The proposed Project Development Objective (PDO) is to restore levels o f
service in selected community infrastructure -specifically, basic, primary and all-age schools, health
clinics and critical feeder roads - at a minimum to pre-hurricane levels and to increase the
Government's ability to respond to natural hazards.
Short description: The proposed project will support the rehabilitation o f community infrastructure
facilities including early childhood, primary and all-age schools, community health clinics and critical
feeder roads which have been damaged by Hurricane Dean. Additionally the project will support
capacity building activities to increase the ability o f the Government to respond to natural disasters.
Financing plan (US$m.)
Source                         I Local           I Foreign                         ITotal
Borrower
Total IBRD/IDA                                     10.00                             10.00
Trust funds
Others
                                                   10.00                           I 10.00
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m.)

                          2007        2008         2009          2010     I    2011     I       2012
Total IBRD/IDA
Trust funds                             2            4             4
                                                                            Yes [ 3 N o [XI




Are any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?          Yes[ 3  N o [ X ]

What safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?                  (OP/BP 4-01), (OP/BP 4.12),(0P/BP 4.11)
Environmental Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement,
Phvsical Cultural Resources

Significant nonstandard conditions, if any: N/A

A. INTRODUCTION

1.        This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an Emergency
Recovery Loan in an amount o f US$ 10.0 million to the Government o f Jamaica (GoJ) for the
proposed Hurricane Dean ERL. The proposed loan would help finance the costs associated with the
rehabilitation and reconstruction o f basic infrastructure in poor communities for recovery from the
Hurricane Dean disaster which hit the island of Jamaica on August 19,2007.

2.        Jamaica suffered extensive damage due to the passage o f Hurricane Dean. The total
damage has been estimated to be US$326.94 million'. Due to the impact o f the hurricane, the
economic growth targets have been adjusted from 2.1 percent to 1.1 percent. Damage to the
education sector was significant. Preliminary reports from the Ministry o f Education and Youth
indicate that 5 18 schools and public educational institutions sustained damage worth at least US$
10 million. The damage to schools was mostly to roofs, structures, sanitary facilities and fences.
Damage and losses to the health sector totaled about US$ 4 million. Critical facilities with
structural damage have been identified. While direct damage to road infrastructure was relatively
small, estimates suggest US$ 15 million will be needed to re-open and repair the infrastructure to
minimize long-term disruption o f social and economic activities. Approximately 1,237 children
plus their respective care givers were affected by damage to nineteen (19) residential Child Care
Facilities, six o f which are Government facilities. The National Works Agency (NWA) reported
that a total o f 446 roadways were blocked by fallen trees, debris, washed down silt and landslips
due to the hurricane.

3.        The proposed loan will respond to the situation by providing support for: (a) rehabilitation
o f primary and early childhood educational infrastructure, (b) rehabilitation o f community-based
health clinics, (c) rehabilitation o f parochiaVagricultura1 feeder roads, and (d) capacity building for
hazard risk reduction.

4.        The outcome indicators for the project are:
               levels o f service o f selected facilities inthe target facilities
              capacity to respond and mitigate natural hazard risk

5.        While different sources o f funds such as budget reallocations, insurance claims and private
sector investments will support the reconstruction efforts at a national level, the GoJ has requested
Bank support to address the reconstruction needs o f the poorer segments o f the population which
are traditionally served only by the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF)2. The Department for
International Development (DFID) and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) are providing support for rehabilitation within this segment. DFID is supporting
replacement o f iron sheet roofs in selected schools through a grant o f approximately US$530,000.
USAID is supporting the rehabilitation o f damaged roofs in 86 houses as well as training on
disaster response. The GoJ has requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance o f US$1
million to finance the necessary preparatory work for the proposed Emergency Recovery Loan
(ERL). The PPF is expected to become effective the second week o f December. The facility will
finance detailed assessments o f the rehabilitation works needed for the education, health and roads
projects and the preparatory work to initiate procurement o f the works and consultant services
required to operate during the first year of the proposed project. It is expected that there will be
retroactive financing for an amount o f around US$750,000.

' Planning Institute of Jamaica, preliminary assessment of the socio-economic and environmental impact of hurricane
Dean on Jamaica.
  JSIF is a government-sponsored autonomous institution designed to address the socio-economic needs of the poorest
communities. It is the agency responsible for mobilizing resources from the Government and international donors. See
http://www.jsif.orgl.

                                                          2

B. EMERGENCY CHALLENGE: COUNTRY CONTEXT, RECOVERY STRATEGY,
     AND RATIONALEFOR PROPOSEDBANK EMERGENCY PROJECT

6.        Caribbean States are highly vulnerable to natural disasters--on average one major hurricane
affects a country in the region every two years. Jamaica has limited options available to respond
despite the recent improvements in the country's economic performance. The GDP growth o f 2.5
percent in FY 06/07 was the highest in a decade and represented an increase from 1.8 percent inthe
previous year. Growth was fueled by strong foreign and domestic private investment, notably in
tourism. The annual rate o f inflation fell from over 13.2 percent in FY 04/05 to 6.6 percent in F Y
06/07 in line with the Government's Medium Term Socio-Economic Policy Framework (MTF)
target3. The progress achieved in the last two years reflects careful policies, enhanced credibility o f
the monetary authority and the impetus o f a favorable global environment. Despite this progress,
Jamaica is one o f the larger Caribbean economies with income below the regional average, and
since the late 1990s has had a high debt-to-GDP ratio (estimated at 108.6 for the FY 07/08) which
limits policy maneuverability.

HurricaneDean4

7.        Jamaica suffered extensive damage due to the passage o f Hurricane Dean on August 19,
2007. Weather conditions associated with Hurricane Dean started to affect Jamaica, especially
eastern parishes, on the morning o f Sunday August 19. These conditions spread westward to
impact the entire island. As the eye o f the Hurricane moved closer to the island weather conditions
progressively deteriorated. Data collection associated with the passage o f Hurricane Dean was
limited due to a number o f challenges: (a) the main weather station located in the Norman Manley
International Airport was blown down on Sunday midday, (b) data from other weather stations was
limited due to communication difficulties, (c) rainfall data was limited as a result o f the loss o f a
number o f rain gauges and the fact that manual collection of data from most o f the stations in
remote areas was not possible due to inaccessible roadways.

8.        The projected population o f Jamaica when Hurricane Dean struck the island was 2.68
million. Approximately 10 percent o f the total population or some 266,326 persons from 170
communities were directly affected by the natural disaster. The Ministry o f Health confirmed six
deaths due to the hurricane and 630 persons injured. Approximately 1,237 children plus their
respective care givers were affected by damage to 19 residential Child Care Facilities. The farming
community was amongst the most severely affected by the hurricane, due to location o f the area
most impacted as well as the overall impact on the agricultural sector. It is estimated that the
livelihoods o f around 17,000 persons were directly or indirectly affected by the event.

9.        Damage to the education sector was significant. Preliminary reports from the Ministry o f
Education and Youth indicate that 5 18 schools and public educational institutions sustained
damage and losses worth US$ 10 million. The damage to schools was mostly roofs, structures,
sanitary facilities and fences. Damage and losses to the health sector totaled US$4 million. Critical
facilities with structural damage have been identified. While direct damage to road infrastructure
was relatively small, estimates suggest US$ 15 million will be needed to re-open and repair the
infrastructure to minimize long-term disruption o f social and economic activities.




 -htlD:/iwww.oioi.aov.ini/M'I'~~Overview.asDxfor
  See                                                an overview.
 This section draws extensively from the Preliminary Assessment of the Socio-Economic and Environmental Impact of
Hurricane Dean on Jamaica prepared by the PlanningInstituteof Jamaica, September 2007.

 10.      The total damage is estimated to be US$326.94 million. Due to the impact o f the hurricane
the economic growth targets have been adjusted from 2.1 percent to 1.1 percent5. Of the total
damage costs, total loss to the private sector is US$228 million, while damage to the public sector
is set at US$lOO million with the agriculture sector alone suffering an estimated loss o f US$52.8
million and US$l 1.04million in damage to the education sector.

Government's Strategy

 11.      Jamaica has a National Disaster Plan (NDP) which provides the legal framework upon
which disaster preparedness operations and training are implemented. The NDP provides detailed
administrative and operational information and instruction to provide guidance and ensure
accountability among Government Officers.

 12.      In preparation for Hurricane Dean, a fully functional National Emergency Operations
Centre (NEOC) was activated on August 18 and a mandatory evacuation order was issued for some
25 coastal and flood prone communities. In response to the impact o f the event, the Office o f
Disaster Preparedness and Emergency Management (ODPEM) carried out several emergency
activities such as aerial reconnaissance flights, damage assessment field visits, food drops and
delivery o f critical relief supplies in the days following the event. In total, 213 shelters were
opened, housing 5,200 persons. In addition, the GoJ implemented two special hurricane relief
benefits package for vulnerable households and pensioners. The cost o f emergency activities
coordinated and executed by the GoJ was estimated at US$8.6 million.

 13.      The estimated cost o f rehabilitation and reconstruction works is between US$ 257 - 328
million6. ODPEM initiated rehabilitation work focused on normalizing the living conditions o f
victims, while also continuing to reactivate economic activity in the areas affected. Activities to
restore food, health, and employment needs were met through a series o f actions taken by public
and private sector and NGOs7.

14.       Jamaica is one o f the participants o f the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
(CCRIF) which came into effect June 1, 2007'. The CCRIF is a regional disaster insurance facility
designed to provide participating governments immediate liquidity if hit by a hurricane or
earthquake. For hurricanes, the CCRIF is triggered by a formula that determines severity o f impact
according to sustained wind speeds and the population density o f affected areas, rather than by the
value o f damage. It is designed to pay out only for a really serious or "catastrophic" event roughly        -
a 1411-20 year event. Hurricane Dean, despite causing considerable damage to Jamaica, was a
roughly 1-in-10 year event for the island and therefore did not trigger a payment.

15.       While a definitive national strategy to address the reconstruction and rehabilitation needs
has not yet been finalized, the GoJ has designed a preliminary plan to address the overall needs o f
reconstruction. This plan includes reallocating budget allocations for the next fiscal year to
reconstruction programs, insurance claims for the productive sector and large affected
infrastructure projects, and multilateral aid in the form o f grants and loans.



  Planning Institute of Jamaica, preliminary assessment of the socio-economic and environmental impact of hurricane
Dean on Jamaica.This estimate includes damage to the social, productive, infrastructure and environment sectors as well
as the cost of emergency operations.
'Dependingon    the rehabilitation support to the agricultural sector.
  Including provision of food, potable water, medical attention, control and prevention of diseases, housing repair,
improved sanitationservices access to affectedareas. These actions will overlap with the reconstructionefforts.
 CCRIF participating governments are: Anguilla, Antigua & Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Cayman
Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Haiti, Jamaica, St Kitts & Nevis, St Lucia, St Vincent & the Grenadines, Trinidad &
Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands.

                                                              4

16.       Against this backdrop, the GoJ will be providing US$37.1 million for Hurricane Dean
recovery and reconstructionactivities for the remainder of the 2007/08 fiscal year. This includes
amounts for the recovery of the agriculture sector through the provision of seeds, fertilizer, fruit
tree crop assistance, and support for the banana, coffee and fisheries, industries, education,
transport and works sectors. Additional funds will be set aside to carry out repairs on public
buildings, welfare programs and relief supplies to persons who suffered losses as a result of the
hurricane.

17.       The Ministry of Finance and the Public Service confirmedthat financing for the recovery
efforts for the remainder of the 2007/08 fiscal year, will be comprised of a mix of resources,
comprisingof multilateral, bilateral and local grants and multilateral loans. The recovery program
will continue intothe 2008/09 fiscal year.

18.       The GoJ approached the Bank to support the reconstructionworks of poorer communities
affected by the Hurricane.The aim is the full re-establishment of normal livingconditions in these
communities through the implementation of specific projects that should directly improve the
conditions of the most vulnerable PO ulation and those living in Quartile IV communities (Le. the
poorest25 percent of the population)       ?.

19.       The impact of Hurricane Dean highlighted issues relating inadequate mitigation measures
that need to be tackled. In particular, land use, building practices and standards, coastal roads and
coastal ecosystems. Through the proposed loan, the GoJ seeks to increase the Government's
capacity to managenaturalrisk andto increasethe resiliencethus reducingvulnerability.


C. BANKRESPONSEAND STRATEGY

20.       The Bank conductedan identificatiordappraisal mission in October 15-19,2007. The Bank
team and the GoJ discussed the possible instruments to support the rehabilitation works of the
poorest communities, including the possibility of restructuringexisting projects currently under
implementation". The GoJ decided to take advantage of the Rapid Response to Crisis and
Emergency Policy issued by the Bank in March 2007 and initiated preparationof a stand alone
operation. This solutionallows for a timely responsewhile at the same time takingadvantageof the
good track record of project implementation.

21.       The proposed loan is a US$10 million IBRD ERL to support the GoJ to implement the
rehabilitationworks needed in the poorest segments of the population.The Bank and GoJ agreed
that the ERL would be implemented through the JSIF which is currently implementingtwo other
Bank projects, notablythe National Community Development Project (NCDP) that finances small
community infrastructureprojects of the type that will be financed under the ERL.After Hurricane
Ivan(2004), JSIF financedthe repair of 100 primary schools under the NCDP. The lessons learned
then will be valuable inthe implementationof the ERL.




  As definedby JSIF's poverty mappingmethodology.
lo There are two Bank projects currently under implementation: (1) The Inner City Basic Services for the Poor (ICBSP)
(P091299) is a SIL for US$30 million approved by the Board in March 24, 2006 to the finance the provision of basic
services, access to microfinance and increased safety in 12 inner-city areas, and (2) The National Community
Development Project (NCDP) (P076837) is a SIL for US$ 15 million approved by the Board in October 24, 2002 to
finance temporary employment opportunities and assist the government's efforts to promote social and community
development, especially amongst the poor.
                                                        5

Project Development Objective

22.        The proposed PDO is to restore levels o f service in selected community infrastructure
specifically - basic, primary and all-age schools, health clinics and critical feeder roads-                         at a
minimum to pre-hurricane levels and to increase the Government's ability to respond to natural
hazards.

Summaryof project components

23.        The proposedloan incorporates three project components:
                a. Component 1. Repair & Reconstructionof Basic Infrastructure - US$ 7.335
                      million
                            1.1 Basic Schools         - US$ 1.635     million. This sub-component will finance
                                 restoration o f Early Childhood schools infrastructure. Priority will be
                                 given to those schools that were built under the National Community
                                 Development Project (NCDP) and those located in Quartile IV
                                 localities".

                            1.2 Primary and All-age schools - US$ 2.6 million. This sub-component
                                 will finance restoration o f primary and all-age schools infrastructure.
                                 Priority will be given to those schools that were built under the NCDP
                                 and those located in Quartile IV localities.

                            1.3 Community Health Clinics - US$ 1.O million. This sub-component will
                                 finance restoration o f Community Clinics including type I,I1 and I11
                                 facilities12.

                            1.4 Parochial / Feeder roads - US$ 2.1 million. This sub-component will
                                 finance restoration o f feeder roads. Only critically important secondary
                                 (parish-level) roads will be selected on the basis o f (i)access to
                                 productive infrastructure and (ii)access to health and educational
                                 facilities.

                b. Component 2. Capacity Building for Hazard Risk Reduction - US$ 0.58
                      million.
                            2.1 Training - US$0.18. This sub-component will finance training on
                            disaster preparedness and mitigation for local government and relevant
                            stakeholders

                            2.2 Studies and Technical Assistance - US$0.4. This sub-component will
                            finance studies and activities to strengthen the capacity to better respond to
                            natural hazards taking into account lessons learned from past events.

                c.   Component 3. Project Management US$ 1.00 million. This component will
                                                                      -
                     support contracted consultant services, and staffing plus operating costs for the in-
                     house project management and administration by JSIF.




"Thelistofschoolsthatwill besupportedthroughtheproposedERLhasnotbeenfinalized.Preliminaryassessments
suggest that the number of damaged schools built under the NCDP project is low, or that these were less affected by the
hurricanethan the rest, however it is expectedthat some will needrehabilitation.
l2The primary health centers in Jamaica are decentralized and an administrativeunit of a hierarchyof healthcenters are
classified as type 1 through4. Type 1 healthcenter was the smallest and the simplest health unit, and both type 2 and 3
healthunit function as referral units for patients from type 1 healthcenters.


                                                              6

Eligibility for processingunder OP/BP 8.00

24.     The Bank has experience in disaster mitigation in the region. Over the last seven years
several disaster mitigationprojects related to hurricane and other naturaldisaster effects have been
approved includingan Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project in St. Vincent and
the Grenadines, an Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program in The
Commonwealth of Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia, and a Natural Disaster
Vulnerability Reduction Project in Nicaragua. The recent participationof Bank specialists in the
preparation of the CCRIF also increased the region-specific knowledge. The new guidelines on
rapid responseto crisis increase the Bank's ability to provide a fast, flexible and simple response,
as well as the benefitof a projectpreparationadvance, whichthe GoJ has req~ested'~.

25.     The project can build on the experience o f working with the GoJ in two on-goingprojects
worth US$45 million. The infrastructurecomponentsof the project are similar in nature and scope
to the type of works that are already being implementedunder a Bank project which will simplify
project implementation.

26.     The Bank will work closely with other donors working in rehabilitationand reconstruction
for the same target population.To date, inthis particular segment of the populationthe Department
for International Development (DFID) and United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
(USAID) are the two agencies providing support for rehabilitation of damage due to Hurricane
Dean. DFID is supporting rehabilitationof schools through a grant of approximately US$530,000
for replacement of iron sheets for roofs. The grant is coordinated by the United Nations
Development Program. The final list of schools participating in the proposed loan will exclude
those schools that have been selected to receive DFIF support. USAID is supporting the
rehabilitationof damaged roofs in 86 houses as well as training on disaster response. CIDA is also
supporting through rehabilitationof early childhood and basic schools. The Bank will coordinate
with USAID to discuss possible collaborationon trainingfor ODPEMon disaster preparednessand
response.

Consistencywith Country Assistance Strategy

27.     The proposed loan is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as approved
in April 2005. The CAS specifies three key pillars:(i) accelerating inclusive economic growth, (ii)
improving human development and opportunity; and (iii)crime prevention and reduction. In
particular, the proposed operation is closely aligned with the first pillar through improvement of
basic infrastructureto mitigate the negative impact of the event on the economy and on household
welfare. Taking into account the lessons learned as described in the Jamaica CAS progress report
(July 2007), the proposed loan is consistent with projectionsof the available fiscal space, does not
include the financingof large civil works and supports capacity buildingfor project management.

Expected project outcomes

28.     The project outcomes expected to be achieved by the proposed loan are: (a) to restore
levels of service at a minimumto pre-hurricane levels inthe target facilities, and (b) to increasethe
Government's risk-management instruments. The results framework and arrangements for result
monitoringis detailed in Annex 2.




l3-paragraph5.
  See
                                                 7

D. APPRAISAL OFPROJECTACTIVITIES

29.       An economic analysis of the operation is not possible until the investments to be financed
throughthe operation are known. Subprojectsto be financed under this operation would be limited
to the most urgent and effective preventionworks, and all reconstructionprojects to be approved
would be evaluatedon the basisof economic criteriaas well.

Technical

30.       Hurricane damage has mostly affected the roofs of buildings, but also caused structural
damage to walls and to ancillary structures and facilities, such as sanitary blocks, doors, windows
and fences. Water damage to floors, equipment and furnishings was extensive. Road damage was
mainly due to surface or base course washouts, flood damage to culverts and bridges.

3 1.      In general, the repairsheconstruction of buildings and infrastructure proposed under the
project are similar in nature and scope to the type of works that JSIF, their consultants and
contractors have been designing and implementingover the past five to eight years. The buildings
and local roads are generally simple, employing standard details and least cost design, and the
quality of supervision and construction by JSIF and their contractors has been good. JSIF staff
and managers have acquired extensive design and constructionexperienceand havealso developed
a comprehensive cost data base which will facilitate competitive bidding. Very few facilities built
by JSIF through the Bank-financedNCDP were reported to have been seriously damaged by
HurricaneDean. The technical ministries and parish councils have been relying on JSIF to deliver
social and economic infrastructure of good quality and in a timely fashion, and JSIF has shown
itself to be very capable inthis regard.

Sustainability

32.      Maintenance by the communities is generally still weak, therefore the project proposes to
include in the construction contracts a three-year maintenance period by the contractors. The
repairheconstructionwill aim to build back better wherever necessary and possible, especially with
regard to resistance to a higher category of hurricane. Sanitation blocks with septic tanks will be
added where feasible, and higher standards of construction will be used within the available
financialenvelope.

33.      In this context, the Ministry of Education has developed a draft improved building code
and standards that could be used for the reconstruction program. Building on this work by the
Ministry, the project will finance technicalassistance to disseminate better building standards and
practices, and providetrainingmaterials and courses for contractors and communities. This will be
part ofthe monitoringand evaluation process.

34.      As far as parish councilroads are concerned, building back better means that a better road
base, improved drainage (ditches, culverts) and stabilization of slide areas (retaining walls), and
other measures as necessary will be employed to build a higher quality road that will stand up to
hurricane conditions and flooding. For schools and health clinics, building back better could mean
relocatingthe facilities to a safer location ifthey are found to be in high-risk areas prone to future
damages from naturaldisasters.

35.      Efforts will be made to ensure that maintenance efforts under the project are consistent
with existingmechanismsandwhere needed,these mechanismswill be strengthened.




                                                  8

Fiduciary

36.      Financial Management. The financial management capacity assessment (Annex 4) relies
on an earlier assessment that had been undertaken in connection with the Inner Cities Basic
Services Project, as both projects would be implemented by the Jamaica Social Investment Fund
(JSIF). JSIF has a long experience in implementing World Bank financed projects and is currently
implementing two World Bank-financed projects. The objective o f this assessment is to validate
and document that the JSIF continues to have acceptable financial management arrangements
including the accounting system, reporting, auditing, and internal controls. The JSIF's financial
management capabilities are assessed in terms o f being capable o f recording correctly all
transactions and balances, supporting the preparation o f regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding the JSIF's assets and addressing inherent fiduciary risks, and are subject to auditing
arrangements acceptable to the Bank. The specific activities and circumstances o f the proposed
loan were factored in to ensure that the entities' financial management system is not only
acceptable in general terms but it i s also commensurate with the needs and the unique nature o fthe
project. In doing so, due consideration was given to the objective o f utilizing JSIF experience
rather than having parallel systems for the proposed loan.

37.      The proposed loan's institutional and implementation arrangements will be based on those
o f JSIF, applying to already-existing World Bank-financed projects. It is expected that the ERL
will follow to a large extent the model o f these previous projects and thus the proposed ERLcan be
broadly considered as a repeat project with changes to the financial management arrangements to
accommodate the emergency nature o f the loan.

38.      On the basis o f the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) findings, the
country fiduciary risk is rated moderate. But because the project will not be implemented through
the central government system, the risk o f the CFAA findings in terms o f impact on the project is
considered low.

39.      JSIF already has in place an adequate financial management system which will require
little adaptation to suit the needs o f the proposed ERL. The system already meets the Bank's
financial management requirements. For the ongoing projects JSIF achieves timely submission o f
the quarterly FMR and the annual audit reports. The quarterly FMR are o f good quality. The audit
reports have not raised any accountability issue or any significant internal control weakness.

40.      Procurement.The most recent procurement capacity assessment (PCA) o f JSIF rates the
risk o f procurement implementation by this agency as average with procurement ex-post review
missions requiredeach year. Procurement staff has remained stable over the past two years and the
procurement team consists o f one Procurement/Legal Officer and two Contracts Officers. The
updated PCA focuses on JSIF's ability to manage an increased project load, larger contract
packages and the range o f contracting activities that are envisioned under the ICBSP and the
proposed project. Infrastructure works under the project will be procured primarily through formal
contracting packages. Procurement o f contracting packages for works and goods will be the
responsibility o f JSIF but will involve in the definition o f technical specifications key sector
agencies with appropriate expertise.


Lessonslearned


41.      Lessons learned from post-disaster reconstruction projects have been incorporated in the
proposed loan and include:


                                                   9

rn   Reallocating resources porn existing projects affects the ability to attain long-term
development goals and is less effective than spec@ reconstruction lending. The original
request from the GoJ was to restructure on-goingprojects to support rehabilitation. This issue
was discussed during appraisal mission. The rapid response instrument recently approved by
the Bank was deemed the more suitable optionfor rehabilitationfinancing.


rn   Project design should be simple, based on extensive participation by the local
communities and beneficiaries, and take into account local implementation capacity, The
project takes advantage of a proven track record of implementing capacity, including the
applicationof a good-practiceEnvironmentalManagementFramework (EMF) which takes into
account participation from local communities. Also, the project design incorporates clear
components with measurable results and only one implementing agency to simplify
 implementation.


rn   To avoid reconstruction delays, streamlined decision-making and procedures for
contracting civil works should be put in place early. Based on the experience during
reconstruction after Hurricane Ivan in 2004, a cabinet-approved emergency procurement
procedure should be employed to speed up contract awards. Also JSIF, an experienced
 implementation agency that was already involved in the Hurricane Ivan reconstruction
program, will be responsible for project implementation.Consultants for the preparation of
biddingdocumentswill be procuredthrough single-source selection.


rn   In countries prone to natural disasters, emergency projects should seek to mainstream
disaster mitigation. Appropriatebetter design standardsto withstand higher category (strength)
hurricanes have been drafted by the government. Building and infrastructuredesigns are being
prepared with recurrent disasters in mind. Training and other suitable means of dissemination
will be employed to promote wider use ofthe higher buildingstandards.


rn   Inpastructure maintenance is one of the most importantfeatures to mitigate againstfuture
disasters. Maintenance for the first three years will be included in the constructioncontracts,
while efforts will be made to motivate and train the responsible agencies and communities to
take on maintenanceof the facilities.


rn   Supervision needs to be relatively intensive. Emergency loans are put together over a
much shorter time period, as a result many details are left to be defined during project
implementation. Flexibility will be required to deal with changing post-disaster conditions,
therefore more Bank supervision effortwill be appliedto this project.


8    Use the community-drivendevelopment (CDD) approachfor the reconstruction to achieve
higher speed and better quality. JSIF has a lot of experience with the use of the CDD approach
through the successful, ongoingimplementationof the NCDP; it will employ this approach for
this ERL


rn   Build on and use pre-disaster projects to lead efforts in reconstruction. The repairs and
reconstruction under this ERL are very similar in type and scope to the works financed and
implemented through the two ongoing Bank-financedprojects being implemented by JSIF.


rn   Give priority to community and transport inpastructure. This ERL will only finance
schools and health facilities, and local feeder roads since they have been identified as the
highest priority needs.




                                             10

Safeguards

42.      The project is considered Category "B", and OP 4.01 is triggered. All works are expected
to be small scale, generating only minor and localized environmental impacts that can be easily
identified,mitigatedandmanaged. Works will focus on rehabilitationand improvement of existing
buildings and feeder roads that were damaged during the hurricane. No large scale, significant
and/or irreversible impacts are expected. In the education sector, only early childhood and
primary/basic schools will be rehabilitated. In the health sector, only Type I.I1 and 111 health
facilities (e.g. no hospitals) will be subject to rehabilitationand repairs. Inthe road sector, only the
rehabilitation of parish council roads will be included, with works taking place within existing
rights-of-way.Nonetheless, all potential subprojects fall within the range of types of subprojects
already financed by JSIF, and therefore also within the scope of JSIF's existing environmental
management procedures as laid out in the Environmental Management Framework (EMF)
developed during 2006 under the ICBSP project and applicable to all JSIF investments. Such
procedures - including site screening, public consultations and information dissemination,
inclusion of EnvironmentalManagement Plans (EMP) in bidding documents, and supervision of
environmental aspects during construction - will be applied to all investments under the ERL. The
EMF forms part ofthe OperationsManual(OM).

43.      JSIF's EMF includes provisions to identify any impacts to physical cultural resources as
part of the environmental screening process for subprojects, and "chance find" procedures are
includedin all works contracts. Giventhe project's focus on rehabilitatingexisting infrastructure,
no impacts to natural habitats are expected; nonetheless, JSIF's environmental screening checklist
includes questions to verify at the subproject level that no natural habitats impacts will occur, and
to ensure subprojects are redesignedto avoidany such impacts ifidentified.

44.      Involuntary resettlement is a possibility under the project, although it is not considered
likely. Most works will consist of rehabilitationof existing infrastructure,particularly roofs which
were lost or damaged during the hurricane. Regardingthe rehabilitation of parish council feeder
roads, JSIF's prior experience with these sorts of roads is that the rights-of-wayare generally free
of squatters or other encumbrances (such as land use for livelihood means) whose removal would
trigger OP 4.12. However, given that the definitive list of project investments is not yet available,
the possibility of displacement (either physical or of economic activities) cannot be ruled out,
particularly in the case of any schools that need to be relocated to new sites. The policy is
therefore considered to be triggered. JSIF has developed and included in its OM a Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF) to guide any land acquisition or
involuntary resettlement that may be required for a subproject (see Annex 8). Any otential
instancesof resettlement will be handledas per the procedures outlined inthis FrameworkIY       .

45.      JSIF's capacity to implement the required measures was reviewed during preparation of
the proposed loan, and was deemedto be sufficientto absorb the additionalworkload generated by
the proposed project's activities. A full-time Environmental and Resettlement Officer (ERO)
oversees all aspects of implementingthe EMF, including ongoingtraining and "refresher courses"
for JSIF social and technical staffwho work with communities, conduct site screeningsand design
mitigation measures at the subproject level. Environmental screening information is fully
integrated into JSIF's Monitoring Information System (MIS), and the ERO plays an active role in
reviewing and providing quality control (through follow-up site visits when necessary) on the
screening and subsequent definition of necessary mitigation measures for each subproject. The
ERO coordinates with JSIF's Legal Officer with respect to all land acquisition and land tenure


14 The LARPF was developed under the ICSBP project and currently applies to all JSIF-financed
investments.
                                                    11

issues, to ensure appropriate documentation is on file and to ensure projects are redesigned or re-
sitedto avoidcausing landacquisitionand involuntaryresettlement.

46.      JSIF's capacity will furthermore continue to be strengthened during the lifetime of the
proposed operation, through the project management component as well as through the ongoing
parallel implementation of the ICBSP project. In addition, JSIF is currently seeking I S 0 14001
certification for its environmental management systems, and is on track to complete the
certificationprocess by October 2008. The agency's commitment to mainstreamingenvironmental
management responsibilitiesand awareness into all aspects of its operations is solid. Areas for
further strengthening of JSIF's capacity relate to better streamlining of the environmental
monitoring system in the MIS, and continuation of ongoing training of project officers to conduct
screeningof environmental and landacquisitionissues. Bothofthese challengesare beingactively
worked on by the ERO.


E. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS AND FINANCINGPLAN

InstitutionalArrangement

47.      The GoJ has indicated that JSIF will serve as the implementingagency for the proposed
loan. JSIF has an established track record in implementing GoJ poverty alleviation projects
including the two ongoing Bank-financedprojects referredto above. JSIF has developed a core
competence in Bank safeguard policies and financial management and procurement procedures.
JSIF is also currently implementing OPEC, CDB and EU-financed sociakommunity-level
infrastructure investment programs along the lines of the NCDP initiative. JSIF has a well
established management structure that aims to ensure efficiency, effectiveness and innovation in
implementation. The Board of Directors, which meets on a monthly basis, provides oversight on
strategic issues and policy direction during project implementationand will review the results of
periodic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities. For operational supervision of on-going
projects a SteeringCommitteewill be formed.

48.      JSIF internal management will participate in internal management reviews and bid
evaluation committees and will give guidance to implementationactivities. Management review
and committee meetings are held on a weekly basis. The project will recruit some additionalstaff,
such as a project manager and a supervision engineer given the emergency nature of the proposed
loan. Key management, M&E reportswill include:

         Monthly internalreports to JSIF Managementand Board
         Quarterly IFRto the World Bank andthe Jamaican government
         Rapid Appraisal Reportsthrough focus groups
         JSIF Annual Report to shareholders, also circulatedto relevant stakeholders
         Annual audit reports basedon financialaudit o fthe JSIF by external auditors
         Technical Audit of quality of infrastructureat mid-termand end of project
         Mid-termevaluation of project interventions
         End-of-projectevaluation.

49.      Operations Manual. JSIF's Operational Manual (OM)" will be applied to the proposed
ERL. The OM prescribes a project preparation and implementation process that involves
community participationat all key steps. This participatory process facilitates the consideration of
environmental aspects as it integrates into the project cycle disclosure of project information to,


IsJSIF's Operations Manual may be seen at www.jsif.org.
                                                       12

and consultation with, the community. The OM, approvedby the JSIF Board on February 22,2006
(under the ICBSP project), contains the key financial procedures that cover the needs of the
proposed ERL. Further improvements, including on budgeting, reporting and internal control
procedures are included in the financial management chapter. The existing EMF is part of the JSIF
O M and will be applied to the proposedloan.

50.     Coordination in Implementation. As in the other on-going projects, due to the multi-
sectoral nature of the project, a range of public partner agencies will be associated with the
implementation of project components. The project will rely on cooperation agreements - or MoU
-with key projectpartnerssuchastheMinistryofEducation andYouth, theMinistry ofHealth,
Early Childhood Commission, ODPEM and Parish councils. Quarterly review meetings will be
held with all partner agencies involved in implementation.

Project Costs and Bank Financing

5 1.    The estimatedproject costs and Bank financing are detailed inTable 1.

                                       Table 1.Project Costs

                                                                                   Bank
                    Project Cost By Activity                     Total
                                                             U S $million       Financing
                                                                               US $million

        Component 1: Repair / Reconstruction                       7.335              7.335


         1.1Basic Schools                                          1.635              1.635


         1.2 Primary and All-Age Schools                          2.600               2.600

                                                                   1.000
         1.3 Community Health Clinics (Type I,I1& 111)                                1.ooo

         1.4 ParishCouncil (Local Feeder) Roads                   2.100               2.100


         Component 2:Capacity Buildingfor Hazard
              RiskReduction                                       0.580               0.580


        2.1 Training                                              0.180               0.180

        2.2 Studies and Technical Assistance                      0.400               0.400

        Component 3: Project Management                            1.000              1.000
                                PPF(including interest)"          1.060               1.060
                                      Total Project Costs         9.975               9.975
                            Front-end fee of O:25percent          0.025               0.025
                             Total FinancingRequired              10.000            10.000




l6Estimatedon the basisof PPF effectiveness date Dec 15,2007 and ERL effectiveness date January 15,2008
                                                  13

Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements

52.      The financial management arrangements of the proposed loan will mainly use JSIF's
current systemwith some amendmentsas necessary.

53.      ImplementingEntity. The overallresponsibilityfor the project's financial managementwill
lie with the JSIF. JSIF is a temporary, autonomous Government-sponsored institution primarily
designed to channel resources to small-scale community-based projects. JSIF was established in
1995 as part of Jamaica's National Poverty Eradication Program. The Jamaican Cabinet gave its
approval in December 1995, to JSIF's incorporation as a limited liability company conformingto
the definition of a Government Company within the Financial Administration and Audit Act. A
loan to fund operations of the JSIF was subsequently negotiated between the GoJ and the World
Bank, to implement the JSIF project. Subsequently further loans were negotiated with other
InternationalFundingAgencies, includingthe World Bank (the NCDP). Under these projects, JSIF
has developed a core competence in financial management procedures, and in dealing with CDD
subprojects, including financial management capacity-building for the community-based
organizations. The project's financial management will be handled by JSIF's Finance and
AdministrationUnit (FAU).

54.      As a government registered company, JSIF is subject to the Jamaica Financial
Administration and Audit Act, the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act and the
Company Act. As such JSIF is required to meet detailed financial management requirements.
Accordingly, it has developed a financial management system that encompasses procedures,
accounting system, staffing and both internal control and external auditing. The financial
management arrangements proposed for the HurricaneDean Emergency Recovery (HDER) Loan
are compatible with these acts. Annex 4 presents a detailed assessment of the financial
managementand disbursementarrangementsapplicable to the proposedloan.

ProcurementArrangements

55.      The most recent procurement capacity assessment (PCA) of JSIF rates the risk for
procurement implementation by this agency as 'average', with procurement ex-post review
missions required each year. Procurement staffhas remained stable over the past two years and the
procurement team consists of one Procuremenfiegal Officer and two Contracts Officers. The
updated PCA focuses on JSIF's ability to manage an increased project load, larger contract
packages and the range of contracting activities that are envisioned under the ICBSP and the
current project. Infrastructureworks under the project will be procured primarily through formal
contractingpackages.Procurementof larger contractingpackages for works and goods will be the
responsibility of JSIF but will involve in the definition of technical specifications key sector
agencieswith appropriate expertise.

Monitoring and Evaluation

56.     The proposed project will rely on the Monitoring and Evaluation Framework developed
and implemented for the ICBSP loan to effectively track progress in implementationand measure
intermediateoutcomes.Giventhe emergency nature ofthe proposedloan, it will not include impact
evaluation as part of the M&E activities.Project monitoring will measure progress of distribution
o f inputs, disbursement of funds and achievement of targeted outputs. Project evaluation will
measure outcomes achievedagainst a projectbaseline includingbeneficiaries' satisfaction with the
rehabilitatiodreconstruction.




                                               14

57.     JSIF will be responsible for the overall managementand implementationof the Monitoring
Framework, This will include ensuring field teams provide timely monitoring reports with
operational data. Technical supervision for the mid-term and end-of project evaluation will be
conducted and can be financed underthe project.

58.     The key instrumentfor projectmonitoringwill be:

            The existing monitoring information system (MIS): a system of continuous project
            monitoring based on inputs recorded and processed through bi-annual participatory
            rapid appraisals and focus groups discussions whereby results are presented through
            bi-annualProject ProgressReports.These will measure progress against a series of key
            indicators summarized inthe resultsframework inAnnex 2.

59.     The Bank will conduct three supervision missions with the implementingagency per year
to ensure adequate supervision given the needfor increasedsupervision intensity.

60.     The closingdate for the proposedloan is June 30,201 1


F. PROJECT RISKS AND MITIGATING MEASURES

61,     Table 2 presentsthe main risk factors identifiedand the proposedmitigationmeasures.

                         Table 2. Risk factors and Mitigating Measures

 1                                                                                      Rating of
  Riskfactors    Descriptionof risk              Rating of
                                                  risk         Mitigation measures       residual
                                                                                           risk

 Procurement     Nationalprocurement                         Simplifiedprocedures that
                 procedures are complex                     were establishedby the
                 andcumbersome andcould                     governmentfor
                 potentiallystifle project                  emergencycontracting
                  implementation.(It takes                  will apply.
                 five monthsor more from                    Inaddition, the
                 bid openingto the                   S      Governmenthas indicated         M
                 endorsementof contracts                    that it will reviewits own
                 awardby the National                       procurement thresholds
                 Contracts Commission).                     within the next fiscalyear
                                                            to addresscurrent
                 JSIF has a heavy work load                 bottlenecks.
                 with ongoing procurement
                 activitiesthat couldbe a                    Short-termconsultants
                 source of potentialdelays.                 (financed throughthe
                                                            Em)will beused, if
                                                            needed,to assist the JSIF
                                                            procurementteam.



 Institutional   JSIF will be implementing                  The NCDP is almost fully
                 three projects including                   disbursedand it is
                 this one. There is a risk of a     M       contemplatedthat the full       L

                                                 15

lack o f institutional              NCDPteam will work
capacity to be able to              exclusively onthis
manage so many projects at          operation.
one time.
Management o f all external         Elaboration of a Grant
funded projects through the         Agreement that would
consolidated fund at the            authorize direct
Ministrvo fFinance level            management o f the
may result inslow release           designated account by
o f resources to                    JSIF with timely reports to
beneficiaries.                  M   the Ministryo fFinance       L
                                    and Public Service on
Consolidation o fthe                disbursements and
reporting requirements              expenditure.
given the existingprojects.
                                    Elaboration o f the format
                                    and content o fthe
                                    financial monitoring
                                    report by negotiations and
                                    taking into account the
                                    existingreporting
                                    requirements.
Given that it is likely that        Contracts will be
the majority o f                    packaged in such a way so
reconstructionwork (both            as to attract smaller and
Bank and GoJ funded) will       M   larger contractors.          L
come on-line at the same            Implementationwill be
time, there may be a                scheduled over about two
shortage both o f contractor        years based on priority
capacity and also of crucial        needs.
raw materials like cement.
Given the emergency                 JSIF has long experience
nature of the project there         inmanaging contractors
is a risk that contractors          and specific post-disaster
may collude and try to take     L   experience inthe school      L
advantage o f the urgency           reconstruction program
o f restoring services in           after Hurricane Ivan. The
affected areas.                     strong community driven
                                    JSIF project process will
                                    also be a check on any
                                    potential corruption.
Maintenance by the                  All contracts for
communities is generally            rebuilding will include a
still weak and it is possible       three year maintenance
that assets created under       M   period. The                  L
the project will not be             repair/reconstruction will
properly maintained.                aim to buildback better,
                                    wherever necessary and
                                    possible, especially with
                                    regardto resistance to a
                                    higher category o f
                                    hurricane.

                              16

G. TERMSAND CONDITIONS FORPROJECT FINANCING

62.    The proposed project will be an IBRD operation through a Variable Spread Loan with a
total maturityof 17 years includinga five-yeargrace period.




                                              17

                   ANNEX 1:Detailed Descriptionof Project Components
                     Jamaica: Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan


The projectwill include three components:
Component 1:Repair/Reconstructionof community buildings and local transport infrastructure
(US$7.3million,allfrom Bankfinancing).
         Sub-Component 1.1: Basic Schools (US%1.6million). This sub-component will finance
         repairs and restoration of basic school buildings and infrastructure.These schools cater to
         children rangingin age from three to six years. Although they are overseen and funded by
         the Early Childhood Commission, many of the facilities have been built originally by
         communities, sometimes with the assistance of corporate sponsors.

         Sub-Component 1.2: Primary and All-Age Schools (US2.6 million). This sub-
         component will finance repairs and restorationof primary and all-age schools throughout
         the island. These schools, which are funded by the Ministry of Education, have suffered
         damage mostlyto roofs andwalls (seebelowfor the range of damage reported).

         Sub-Component 1.3: CommunityHealth Clinics(US$l.O million). This sub-component
         will finance repairs and restoration of community clinics including type I,I1 and I11
         facilities that have reported varying levels of damage. These clinics which are under the
         Ministry of Health provide local access to basic walk-in health services but do not have
         hospital-typefacilities or services.

For the sub-components of component 1 above, the Early Childhood Commission, the Ministry of
Education, and the Ministry of Healthhave preparedpreliminary lists of the specific facilities that
will be included in the project. These lists also show the type and level of damages that the
buildings suffered. The kinds of damage reported are: almost total destruction, blown-off and
missing roofs, damaged and leaking roofs, resultant extensive water damage to walls, floors and
furnishings, structural damage to walls, water tanks and sanitation blocks damaged or destroyed,
trees and perimeter fences blowndown.

Preliminary assessments suggest that the number school facilities built under the NCDP project
was low or that these were less affected by the hurricane than the rest, however it is expected that
some will need rehabilitation. The Bank and JSIF agreed that schools built under NCDP will be
prioritizedunderthe proposed loan.

         Sub-Component 1.4: Repair / Rehabilitationof Parish Council/ Feeder roads (US%2.1
         million). This sub-component will finance restoration of parish council and feeder roads
         infrastructure (local governments) throughout the island. Detailed assessments of the
         damage to local roads are still in progress and not yet available in full from the Ministry of
         Local Government. Preliminarily it is suggested that the hurricane-related damage was
         mainly to road surfaces or base course through washouts, or through flood damage to
         culverts and small bridges; damage through slope and embankmentcollapse also occurred.
         It was agreedthat priority will be given to feeder roads that are critical for the transport of
         agricultural produce, given that the agricultural sector had been particularly hard-hit by
         Hurricane Dean. Other roads will be strategicallyselected based on whether they provide
         access to healthand educationalfacilities.



The Bank agreed that reconstruction under the project will go beyond rebuilding the damaged
infrastructure and will aim to "build back better" taking into account available best practices in

                                                  18

disaster preparedness and usinghigh standards o f construction.

It was also agreed that first priority under each subcomponent above would be given to any NCDP
sub-project that had been damaged by the hurricane; this would be followed by sub-projects falling
in Quartile IV communities.

Component 2. Capacig Buildingfor Hazard Risk Reduction (US$0.58million, allfrom Bank
                                                                  -
financing) will finance capacity training on disaster prevention and mitigation:
                        Subcomponent 2.1: Training - US$O.18 million. This sub-component will
                        finance training on hazard preparedness and mitigation for local government
                        and relevant stakeholders.

                        Subcomponent 2.2:      Studies and Technical Assistance - US$0.4 million.
                        This sub-component will finance studies and activities to strengthen the
                        capacity to better respond to natural hazards taking into account lessons
                        learned from past events. Relevant studies identified are listed below,
                        however other relevant studies agreed between the Bank and the GoJ can be
                        incorporated in order to increase capacity to respondto natural hazards.

Studies to be financed under sub-component 2.2 which have been identified include:

   i. MappingofCoastalChangeHazards.Themainobjectiveofthisproposedstudywouldbe
        to determine possible storm surge inundation and run-up levels which may occur during
        the passage o f a hurricane in selected coastal towns. This information will serve to guide
        the decision making process as it relates to development planning, resource and land
        management, mitigation, emergency preparedness and evacuation planning. The major
         components o f this study will be: (a)           identification and mapping o f national
         resources/infrastructure/facilities including emergency shelters, police stations, hospitals,
        fire stations and other critical facilities, bridges and coastal roads, private properties and
         populations at risk; (b) site specific storm surge analysis to determine storm surge levels
         for 10, 25, 50 and 100 year return periods; and Category 4 and 5 hurricanes on worst-case
        track; and (c) preparation o f hazard vulnerability maps in GIS format and reports for all
         major coastal towns. The main outputs o f this study will be storm surge vulnerability maps
         for selected coastal towns.

   ii. Coastal Ecosystem Study. The study objective is to develop a framework for the
         rehabilitation and improved management o f coastal ecosystems, and the overall goal o f the
         study is to preserve the coastal ecosystems' goods and services by providing valuable
         information for improved management and rehabilitation. Specific components are: (a)
        valuation o f coastal ecosystems: mangroves, seagrass beds and coral reefs; (b)
         determination o f the pre-Hurricane Dean status o f coastal ecosystems; (c) assessment o f the
         impact o f Hurricane Dean on the coastal ecosystem; and (d) development o f rehabilitative
        measures for the ecosystems. The key outputs are: (a) datdinformation on the pre-
        Hurricane Dean status o f coastal ecosystems; (b) value o f coastal ecosystems to Jamaica;
        (c) information on the impact o f Hurricane Dean on the coastal ecosystems; (d)
        recommended measures to rehabilitate damaged ecosystems. The geographic scope o f the
         study includes Port Royal and Port Royal Cays (Kingston), Port Antonio (Portland), Old
        Harbour Bay (St. Catherine), Rocky Point (Clarendon), Ocho Rios and Discovery Bay (St.
        Ann), Negri1(Westmoreland & Hanover), and Montego Bay (St. James).
  ...
  111.  Integrated Planning Study to reduce vulnerability in selected coastal fishing communities.
        The coastal zone in Jamaica is rich in natural resources and they attract many Jamaicans
        who exploit them for a livelihood. As a result many settlements have developed within the
        coastal areas evolving into communities directly or indirectly dependent on the coastal

                                                    19

        resources. Coastal areas are, in general, highly vulnerable to natural hazards such as
        hurricanes and storm surges. Further, exacerbating this vulnerability is the fact that many
        of these areas are characterized by high levels of poverty and indiscriminate land use
        practices. The main objective of this study is to improve the resilience of selected
        vulnerable coastal fishing communities through the planning, and subsequent
        implementation, of a multi-sectorintegratedproject with measuresto mitigate and adapt to
        hazardrisks, improvesocio-economic status. The key outputs of the study are: (a) a coastal
        residential construction manual; (b) an environmental management plan; and (c) a
        livelihoodsimprovement strategy for the affectedcommunities.

 iv.    Immovement of Building Standards. The project will finance technical assistance to
        prepare a proposed building code and standards, develop a training manual and related
        training materials, and disseminate these better building standards and practices through
        training materials and courses for contractors, tradesmen and communities. Additionally, a
        register of qualified and trained builders, tradesmen and constructionworkers will be set

        UP.
Component 3: Project Management (US$l.O million, all from Bank financing) will finance
consultant services and operating costs for project management and administration. JSIF will
recruit additional staff for the management and implementationof the Em, including a Project
Officer and a Supervision Engineer. Core staff will be recruited by JSIF on time-bound contracts
not exceeding the life of the proposed Project. In addition, materials and equipment, such as
computers andvehicles, supportingthis staffwill also be financed.

This component will also finance consultant services for carrying out the detailed damage
assessment, preparing bills of quantities, designs and bidding documents and assisting JSIF with
the procurementof the repair / reconstruction works.




                                                20

                           ANNEX 2: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                          Jamaica: HurricaneDeanEmergencyRecoveryLoan

ProjectDevelopmentObjective                 ProjectOutcomeIndicators                   Use of OutcomeInformation
Restore levels o f service in                 Restored accessto selected                To inform the National
selected community                             basic services intarget                  Government on the progress
infrastructure - specifically,                 communities affected by                  o f rehabilitation and
basic primary and all-age                      Hurricane DeanI7                         reconstruction efforts
schools, health clinics and
critical feeder roads-      at a               Improved national and local              To adapt and update risk
minimumto pre-hurricane levels                 risk-management systems                  mitigation and rehabilitation
and increase the Government's                  for future natural disasters             Plans
ability to respondto natural                   prevention
hazards
     IntermediateOutcomes                      IntermediateOutcomes                    Use of IntermediateOutcome
       One per Component                                Indicators                                Monitoring
ComponentOne: Repair&                                                                    To measure effectiveness o f
Reconstructionof Basic                                                                  physical infrastructure
Infrastructure                                                                          investments and adapt
                                                                                        implementation strategy

                                                                                         To inform GoJ strategy and
                                                                                        parallel efforts on best
                                                                                        practice in implementing
                                                                                        rehabilitation works
   Increase levels o f service in              % o f beneficiaries that are
   target early childhood schools              satisfied or very satisfied
   affected by Hurricane Dean                  with rehabilitation o ftarget
                                               early childhood facilities

                                              Number o f students intarget
                                               early childhood facilities
                                               with accessto hurricane
                                               resistant facilities / Number
                                               o f students in target early
                                               childhood facilities before
                                               Hurricane DeanI8
  Increase levels o f service in               % o fbeneficiaries that are
   target primary and all-age                  satisfied or very satisfied
   schools affected by Hurricane              with rehabilitation o ftarget
   Dean                                        primary and all-age schools
                                               facilities

                                              Number o f students in target
                                              primary and all-age schools
                                              with access to hurricane


l7
'* Throughout this Annex, the term "target" means that they will be subject to rehabilitation under the proposed loan.
   Information to calculate the base-line data for this and similar indicators should be available from the Ministry of
Education, the Ministry of Health and the Early Childhood Commission. JSIF is currently working on data gathering to
prepare the base-line information. If data quality does not allow to calculate this indicator a random sample technique
could be applied
                                                          21

                                    resistant facilities / Number
                                    o f students in target primary
                                    and all-age schools before
                                    Hurricane Dean
                                    % o fbeneficiaries that are
  target community based health     satisfied or very satisfied
  clinics affected by Hurricane     with rehabilitation o ftarget
                                    community health clinics

                                    Number of patients intarget
                                    community health clinics
                                    with access to hurricane
I
                                    resistant facilities /
                                    Number o fpatients intarget
                                    community health clinics
                                    before Hurricane Dean
  Increase access to target         % o fbeneficiaries that are
   critical roads damaged by        satisfied or very satisfied
   Hurricane Dean                   with target rehabilitated
                                    critical feeder roads
 Component Two: Capacity                                           sTo strengthen the institutional
 Buildingfor Disaster                                               capacity o f the country for the
 Preparedness                                                       long-term integration of
                                                                    improved procedures and
                                                                    mechanisms for disaster
                                                                    reconstruction and
                                                                    rehabilitation.
                                                                    To influence investment
                                                                    location decisions
 Increase the Government's          Preliminary studies for risk-
 ability to respond to natural      preparedness and
 disasters                          management developed

                                    %trainees scoring above
                                    75% in skills test
                                    administered post training
                                    inrisk and vulnerability
                                    reduction

                                    % o fJSIF's infrastructure
                                     investmentsthat take into
                                    account key
                                    recommendations o f
                                    relevant studies
 Component Three: Project
 Management

   JSIF increase capacity to, and   JSIF obtains and adheres to     Identify actions and measures
   effectively implement and         I S 0 14000 certification      to strengthen JSIF
   supervise project interventions                                  management and quality
                                                                    control systems.


                                               22

       sw    2
             *    s
                   10
                   W




            .-e
             -
             0

 0    0      it   0

             p1


0
Y U

     E
     e         E
               e        2
                        e




                        3
                         co
                         v,

 ?
.I
 L
 0
rc)l                I

 E!




          0         l   o

0   0    0

2



Z
Q




2

                         ANNEX 3: Summaryof EstimatedProjectCosts
                      Jamaica: Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan

                                               Project Costs

                                                                                      Bank
                    Project Cost By Activity                        Total
                                                                U S %million       Financing
                                                                                  US $million

        Component 1: Repair / Reconstruction                         7.335               7.335


         1.1 Basic Schools                                            1.635              1.635


         1.2 Primary and All-Age Schools                             2.600               2.600

                                                                      1.000              1.000
         1.3 Community Health Clinics (Type I,I1& 111)
         1.4 Parish Council (Local Feeder) Roads                     2.100               2.100


         Component 2:Capacity Buildingfor Hazard
             RiskReduction                                           0.580               0.580


        2.1 Training                                                 0.180               0.180

        2.2 Studies and Technical Assistance                         0.400               0.400

        Component 3: ProjectManagement                                1.000              1.ooo
                                  PPF(including interest)23           1.060              1.060
                                         Total Project Costs         9.975               9.975
                               Front-end fee of 0.25percent          0.025               0.025
                                Total FinancingRequired              10.000            10.000




23Estimated on the basis o f PPF effectiveness date Dec 15,2007 and ERL effectiveness date January 15,2008


                                                     27

              ANNEX 4: Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements
                     Jamaica: Hurricane DeanEmergency RecoveryLoan

Background
This report summarizes the findings of the financial management capacity assessment for the
Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery (HDER) Loan. This assessment relies on an earlier
assessment that had been undertaken in connectionwith the Inner Cities Basic Services Project, as
both projects would be implementedby the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF). The objective
of this assessment is to validate and document that the JSIF continues to have acceptable financial
management arrangements including the accounting system, reporting, auditing, and internal
controls. The JSIF's financial management capabilities are assessed in terms of being capable of
recordingcorrectly all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and reliable
financial statements, safeguardingthe JSIF's assets and addressing inherent fiduciary risks, and are
subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.The specific activities and circumstances
of the HDER Loan were factored into ensure that the entities' financial managementsystem is not
only acceptable in general terms but it is also commensuratewith the needs and the unique nature
o f the project. In doing so, due consideration was given to the objective of utilizing JSIF
experience rather than havingparallelsystems for the HDERLoan.

The HDER institutional and implementationarrangements will be based on those of JSIF. It is
expected that the HDER Loan will follow to a large extent the model of the two existing projects
and thus the HDER Loan can be broadly considered as a repeat project with changes to the
financialmanagementarrangementsto accommodate the emergencynature ofthe Loan.

Country Issues
The impact of the Jamaican public financial management system on the project is discussed inthe
Risk Analysis section.

One of the major issues affecting project implementation is related to the use of designated
accounts in Jamaica. According to Government regulations, loan funds have to be disbursed from
the Government Consolidated Fund in order to be recognized as Government debts and
subsequently paid by the Accountant General when due. Because of this requirement, many
projects have suffered from cash flow problems as the designated account funds could not be used
to finance project expenditures directly. Instead, the payments have to be made first from the
Government Consolidated Fund Account which is then reimbursed from the designated account.
JSIF has not sufferedfrom this issue.


Financialmanagement and disbursement arrangements
The implementation arrangements for all the activities to be supported under the HDER Loan are
already coveredby JSIF operations manual. For financialmanagement purpose, the activitiesto be
coveredunderthe HDERLoancan be grouped underthe following components:

    0   Component 1: Repair/Reconstruction of community buildings and local transport
        infrastructure comprising: (i)repairs and restoration of basic school buildings and
        infrastructure; (ii) repairs and restorationof 135 primary and all-age schools; (iii) repairs
        and restoration of 72 community clinics; and (iv) restoration of parish council and feeder
        roads infrastructurein eight parishes;

    0   Component 2: Capacity Building for Disaster-Preparedness comprising: (i) Mapping of
        Coastal Change Hazards; (ii) Coastal Ecosystem Study; (iii) Integrated PlanningStudy to



                                                  28

        reduce vulnerability in selected coastal fishing communities; and (iv) Improvement of
        Building Standards, and(v) Capacity Trainingon disaster preparedness.

        Component 3: Project Management
Implementing Entity. The overall responsibility for the project's financial management will lie
with the JSIF. JSIF is a temporary, autonomous Government-sponsored institution primarily
designed to channel resources to small-scale community-based projects. JSIF was established in
1995 as part of Jamaica's National Poverty EradicationProgram (NPEP). The Jamaican Cabinet
gave its approval in December 1995, to JSIF's incorporation as a limited liability company
conforming to the definition of a Government Company within the Financial Administration and
Audit Act. A loan to fund operations of the JSIF was subsequently negotiated between the
Government of Jamaica and the World Bank, to implement the Jamaica Social Investment Fund
project. Subsequently further loans were negotiated with other International Funding Agencies,
including the World Bank (the National Community Development Project). Under these projects,
JSIF has developed a core competence in financial management procedures, and in dealing with
CDD subprojects, including financial management capacity-building for the community-based
organizations. The project's financial management will be handled by JSIF's Finance and
AdministrationUnit (FAU).

As a government registeredcompany, JSIF is subject to the Jamaica FinancialAdministration and
Audit Act, the Public Bodies Management and Accountability Act and the Company Act. As such
JSIF is required to meet detailed financial management requirements. Accordingly, it has
developed a financial management system that encompasses procedures, accounting system,
staffing and both internal control and external auditing. The financial management arrangements
proposedfor the HDERLoan are compatiblewith these acts.

JSIF's Finance and AdministrationUnit is consideredto be fully staffed. It is headed by a Finance
and Administration Manager, and also includes a Financial Analyst, Financial Accountant,
Financial Officer and Accounting Clerk. All staff have sufficient background and experience for
their duties. The financial staff is considered capable of absorbing the duties of the proposed
projectto the degree that it is implementedin a manner similar to current JSIF operations.
Accounting System For the purpose of the HDER Loan, JSIF will essentially use its existing
financial management systems and procedures which will be adapted as necessary to reflect the
emergency nature o f the project. The already existing accounting software (ACCPAC) can cope
with several projects at a time. It will be customized to include a separate 'entity' to separately
monitor the accounts of and reports on the HDER Loan. ACCPAC is fully functioning. The
software has a multi-currencyfeature, but this is limited in that it only allows for the translationof
balances, which is sufficient for asset and liability accounts, but for sources or uses of funds, the
average or weighted average exchange rates must be manuallycalculated. In order to facilitate the
preparation of the financial reports, it will be necessary to change the structure o f the chart of
accounts. Currently, the chart of accounts is based on the source of funding and not necessarily on
the project or program beingfunded. As a result, preparing financial reports by projectrequires for
GoJ-financedexpenditures assigning manually individualexpenditures.

Financial Management Procedures.          JSIF Operational Manual contains the key financial
proceduresthat cover the needs of the proposedproject.
Reporting and Monitoring. JSIF produces a number of internalfinancialreports, while also having
to create reports for the various donors. The reporting requirements for the HDER Loan will be
similarto those of the ongoing on-goingprojects beingimplementedby JSIF.

Two main financial reports will be submittedto the Bank. The annual financial statements will be
preparedand audited as part of the JSIF regular audit, which is an overall report incorporatingthe



                                                29

specific information related to various projects implemented by JSIF. In addition to the audit
report, JSIF will prepare a quarterly un-audited Interim Financial Reports (IFR), which includes
informationon financial, physical, and procurement progress.These reports are normally linkedby
reportingby project components and activities. The information from ACCPAC, along with that
contained in the JSIF MIS, will be used not only to generate IFRs, but more generally, to provide
better informationfor JSIF managers and other stakeholders.
Flow of funds. Funds would be managed through a process similar to that used for the ongoing
Bank-financedprojects. A Designated Account will be maintained in U S dollars, and payments
will be made to local contractors via a local currency account. All funds would be first budgeted
via the Government'snormalbudgetprocesses.
Internal Audit. JSIF has a position of internal auditor which reports directly to the JSIF Board of
Directors.Additionally, it has a FinanceandAudit Committeethat meets monthly.
External Audit. Due to its legal status, JSIF must have its financial statements regularly audited.
This is done every year by a private sector auditor appointed by the JSIF Board. In additionto the
statutory audit of JSIF financial statements, the auditor also issues a consolidatedaudit reporton all
the projects being implementedby JSIF with a separate opiniononthe financial statements of each.
The quality of the audit report is found to be good. The main qualification in the audit opinion has
been related to the cost of the Beneficiaries/Sponsorscontributionsin sub-project activities which
has only been partially accounted for in these financial statements. This is a recurrent problemthat
i s beingaddressed as part of the MIS andthe operations manualrevision.The current auditors were
appointed for a one-year contract renewal. These auditors are acceptable to the Bank, as they have
produced well-organized, informativeaudit reports and management letters in previous years. The
terms of reference largely reflectthe requirements of the Bank and are still appropriate, given the
characteristicsofthe HDERLoan.

JSIF will be required to submit no later than four monthsafter the end of its fiscal year its statutory
audit report and the consolidatedreport of all the projects implemented, includingthe HDERLoan.

Disbursementarrangements
The projectwill be implementedover a 3 year periodfrom July 2008 to June 2011. Procurement
will be completed by February 2011. The proposedallocationof the loan is shown in Table 3.

                               Table 3: Allocationof LoanProceeds

Category                               Amount of the Loan               Percentageof Expenditures
                                              Allocated                        to be financed
                                       (expressed in Dollars)               (inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consultants'                 8,9 15,000              100%
services, non-consultant
services, Trainingand
Operating Costs for the Project
(2) Refundof the Project                       1,060,000               Amount payable pursuant to
PreparationAdvance                                                     Section 2.07 (a) of the General
                                                                       Conditions
(3) Front-end Fee                               25,000                Amount payable pursuant to




                                                                      Conditions
TOTAL AMOUNT                                  10,000,000


                                                   30

 Use of reports-baseddisbursements

  Report-based disbursements will be used for the project. JSIF will submit quarterly Interim
  FinancialReports (IFRs) consistent with the agreedformat and content within 45 days of the end of
  each reporting period. To support disbursement, the IFR will be accompanied by the following
 additional information: Designated Account (DA) Activity Statement, DA Bank Statements,
  Summary Statement of the DA Expenditures for Contracts subject to Prior Review, Summary
  Statement of DA Expenditures not subject to Prior review and a Statement reconciling the
  Category Balances inJSIF books with those in ClientConnection.

  Disbursementswould be managed and executed by the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) on
  the basis of a summary report in the form o f an interim un-audited financial report. When
  submitting interim un-audited financial reports as supporting documentation for reimbursements
  and reporting the use of advances, JSIF would be required to submit a cash forecast for the two
  subsequent reportingperiods. JSIF has ample experience managing several Bank projects and has
  beenfoundto meet with Bank's requirements with regardto financialmanagement.

  Designated Account
  A Designated Account would be opened, in the name of the Government of Jamaica (GoJ), to
  facilitate payment of all eligible expenditures. Prior review would be required for individual
  consultants with contracts exceeding US$50,000 and for consultant firms with contracts exceeding
  US$lOO,OOO.    Otherwise, only terms of references and short lists of candidates would need to be
  cleared by the Bank. JSIF would be responsible for executingthe loan in accordancewith the Loan
  Agreement. The DesignatedAccount wouldbe opened at the Central bank on terms and conditions
  satisfactory to the World Bank, with adequate protection against set-off, seizure, etc. The initial
  deposit of the Designated Account will be of approximately 15% (US$1,500,000) of the total
  amount ofthe HDERLoan.

  Given the emergency nature of the project the initial deposit into the Designated Account will be
  made upon Loan effectiveness subject to opening of the account in accordance with the Bank's
  requirement and upon submission of the proper withdrawal application. Subsequent replenishment
  of the Designated Account will be on the basis of the interim un-audited financial reports or IFR
  with a detailedcash forecast.

  RiskAnalysis
  The following matrix details the financial managementrisk assessment for the HDER Loan.



  Inherent Risk
  Country                                                          X
  Entity                                                                     X
  Project                                                          X
  Overallinherent Risk                                             X
I Control Risk                            I        I          I          I          I                I
  1, ImplementingEntity                                            X
 2. FundsFlow                                                      X




                                                 31

4. Accounting Policies andProcedures                                         X
5. InternalAudit                                                             X
6. ExternalAudit                                                             X
7. Reportingand Monitoring                                         X
8. InformationSystems                                              X
Overall Control Risk                                               X

H-High S - Substantial M-Moderate N-Negligible or Low


Country risks
A joint CFAA/CPAR was undertaken in 2005. This constitutes a solid basis to assess the overall
performance of Jamaica public financial management (PFM). Overall, the legal and institutional
framework in Jamaica and its established institutions and procedures, including external oversight
provide for a solid foundation for PFM. Government accounts are regularlyproduced and audited.
The report of the Auditor General is public. Parliament oversight is very active. The Government
of Jamaica has also undertaken several initiatives during the past few years aimed at modernizing
its public financial managementsystems. In spite of these efforts, the CFAAKPAR identified some
issuesthat continueto affect overall PFMperformance.The mainones are as follows:

0   Slow implementationof the underlying accountability and business processes to accompany
    the evolution of the legal and institutional framework for PFM, creating a risk of weakened
    controlover the Executive Agencies.
    Major weaknesses in the implementationof the new business processes (information system,
    accrual accounting, and audit committees) undermining timeliness and quality of financial
    reporting.
0   Weak link between government priorities, planning and budget, and the lack of timely
    information reflecting actual budget appropriations. This contributes substantially to
    inefficiency in public spending and weaknesses in budget monitoring that would otherwise
    facilitatebetter fiscal controlandparliamentary oversight.
0   Effectiveness of internalaudit function is still being affected by the methodologies and tools
    used shortages in budgetand staff, and staffresistanceto changes in focus and procedures.
0   Parliament's overall effectiveness as an oversight body is still limited by the lack of reliable
    enforcement mechanismsto follow up PublicAccounts Committee findings.

On the basis of the CFAA findings, the country fiduciary risk is rated moderate. But because the
project will not be implemented through the central government system, the risk of the CFAA
findings interms of impact on the projectis consideredlow.
Project risk
The greatest risks are posed by Capacity Building for Hazard Risk Reduction given that JSIF has
less experience with these types of activities. These risks are mitigatedby the establishment of a
working group by JSIF that will include ODPEM and NEPA who will have inputs into the
procurement andthe technical oversight ofthe studies.


Summary of Strengths and Weaknesses of FMArrangements
Primary strengths andweaknessesof the financial managementsystem, includingactions required
to addressweaknesses.




                                                32

Key strengths ofthe project's FMarrangementsare:
0   The entity's experience with prior Bank-financedprojects

0   Sufficientstaffedfinancialfunction
0   Effectiveexternal oversightwith a functioningFinanceandAudit Committee and an adequate
    external audit arrangementand a recordof understandable, informativeaudit reportsand
    managementletters
0   Functioningmanagementand accounting system

The key improvementrequired is to:
    0   Revisethe segment coding of ACCPAC so that it is primarily basedon projects and
        secondly onthe source of funding. This will facilitatepreparationofprojectfinancial
        reports without havingto reprocessthe data, which is time consumingand a source of error
        and does not allow ready availabilityof financial reports.

    Action Plan

 The following financialmanagementaction planhas beenagreedupon betweenthe Bank and GoJ:

                  Action                         ResponsiblePerson           CompletionDate
OperationsManual
Revisethe financial managementchapter
of the operationsmanualto incorporate       Finance and Administration       January 31,2008
the activitiesto undertakenunder            Manager

Disaster Preparedness
ACCPAC
Revisethe chart of accounts to include      FinanceandAdministration         January 3 1,2008
the componentsofthe HDERLoan                Manager

FinancialMonitoringReports
Finalizeformat ofthe IFRfor the HDER        Finance and Administration
Loanincludingthe CashForecast               Manager                            Negotiations

Statement

Supervision Plan

GivenJSIF's past experience andperformance as well as the clean audits that haveresulted inthe
past, the financial managementsupervision will focus on:


    0   The reviewof the quarterly IFR which will help monitor financialperformance ofthe
        projectand
    0   FM staff participation in supervision missions at least once a year, besides the standard
        monitoring of the overall financial management system to ensure it continues to be
        satisfactory. The financial management aspects of the disaster preparedness component
        should be scrutinized duringthe early part ofthe project implementation.




                                                33

                            ANNEX 5: ProcurementArrangements
                   Jamaica: Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan

A. General
   Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
   Bank's `Guidelines: Procurement Under JBRD Loans and IDA Credits' dated May 2004
   revisedOctober 1, 2006; and `Guidelines: Selection and Employmentof Consultants by World
   Bank Borrowers' dated May 2004 revised October 1, 2006, and the provisions stipulated inthe
   Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories are described in
   general below. For each contract to be financed by the Loan the different procurement
   methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification,estimated costs, prior
   review requirements, and timeframe are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the
   Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
   reflectthe actual project implementationneeds and improvements in institutionalcapacity.

   Procurementof Works. Works procuredunder this project will consist of several civil works
   contracts. Packagesfor integratednetwork infrastructureare estimated at approximately US$ 8
   million on average, which would include the restoration of infrastructure at basic schools
   (US$l.8 million), primary and all-age schools (US$3.0 million), community health clinics
   (US$1.2 million) and parochial / feeder roads (US$2.4 million). The procurement will be
   carried out using the Bank's standard bidding documents (SBD) for all international
   competitive bidding (ICB) and national SBD agreed with the Bank for other procurement
   methods.

   Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project would include vehicles, office
   furniture and equipment, and computer hardware and software. The procurement will be
   carried out usingthe Bank's SBD for all ICB and national SBD agreedwith the Bank for other
   procurementmethods.

   Selection of Consultants. Consultant services will include technical assistance services for
   capacity building within JSIF, especially for the key officers such as the environment and
   resettlement officer (ERO), procurement staff, and their alternates. Consultant services will
   also be required for project management and administrationas well as for preparation of the
   detailed damage assessment, bills of quantities, designs and biddingdocuments and assistance
   to JSIF with the procurement ofthe repair / reconstruction works.

   Training. This component will finance trainingon hazardmitigationfor local governmentand
   relevant stakeholders as well as studies and activities to strengthen capacity to respond to
   natural disasterstakinginto account lessonslearnt from past events

   Operating Costs will include in-house projectmanagementand administrationby JSIF, office
   space, utilities, and supplies.




                                               34

B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out under the responsibility and oversight of JSIF. The
most recent Bank assessment of JSIF's capacity was carried out in January 2006, by the
Caribbean ProcurementCoordinator. At that time the overall project risk for procurement was
determined to be `average'. This finding is supported by the results of subsequent prior and
post review by the Bank ofprocurement implementationunder boththe ongoingNCDPandthe
ICBSP projects.

The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of JSIF, and particularlythe procurement
staffing and routing and approval of procurement actions. JSIF is composed of four
management divisions: Human Resources, Finance & Administration, Information Systems
and Operations Management.         The procurement function falls under the managerial
responsibilityof the Finance& AdministrationManager, who reports to the ManagingDirector
of JSIF. The existing procurement staff, comprised of one ProcurementLegalOfficer and two
Contracting Officers, work with several international funding agencies, including the World
Bank and the IADB.

All procurement is done in accordance with the Government of Jamaica (GoJ) Handbook of
Public Sector Procurement Procedures and any additional specific provisions as agreed with
external fundingagencies. Transparency inthe process and confidentiality are emphasized. No
conflicts with Bank guidelines have been identified. However, it is importantto note that GoJ
requires that local firms demonstrate tax compliance in order to participate in any bidding
opportunities involvinggovernment procurement.

JSIF procurement staff experience has been primarily in the procurement of civil works under
shopping or National Competitive Bidding procedures and the value of the contracts is not
large. Coordination between the procurement officers and other departments of JSIF is
essentialfor the successful implementationofthe project.

It is recommended that JSIF procurement officers receive additional training to handle the
expanded procurement activitiesunder this project.JSIF now has electronic access to the latest
WB biddingdocuments to update its library and the Operations Manual includes a new section
reflectingall procurement proceduresto be appliedunder this project.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementationwhich
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan was agreed between the Borrower
and the Project Team on November 30,2007 and is available at JSIF headquarters. It will also
be available in the project's database and on the Bank's external website. The Procurement
Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflectthe
actual project implementationneeds and improvements in institutionalcapacity.

D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the ImplementingAgency has recommended one supervision mission every 12
monthsto carry out post reviewof procurement actions and hands-ontraining.




                                           35

    E. Details ofthe Procurement Arrangements InvolvingInternational Competition

1. Goods, Works, and Non Consulting Services

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting: Not Applicable




(b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$ 1.5 million and all direct contracting will be subject
to prior review by the Bank.

2. Consulting Services

(a) List o f consulting assignments with shortlist o f international firms. Not Applicable


                                                               Review         Expected
Ref'No'      Descriptionof     Estimated      Selection
              Assignment         cost                                        Submission
                                                                              Proposa's    Comments
                                               Method       prior / Post)
                                                               by Bank
                                                                                Date




(b) Consultant services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and all single source
selection o f consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$200,000.00 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                   36

F.Thresholds for Procurement Methods andPrior Review

Recommendedthresholds for use o f the procurement methods specified inthe legal agreement, and
for Bank prior review o f procurement actions, are identified in the table below. Specific contracts
which are subject to prior review are detailed inthe Procurement Plan agreed at negotiations.



        Expenditure             Contract Value           Procurement           Contracts Subject to
            Category             (Threshold)                Method                 Prior Review
                                US$ thousands

  11. Works                        >1.500                     ICB         I            All          I
  I===                            150-1.500                   NCB         I           None           I
                                    <150                   Shopping                   None
   2. Goods                         >150                      ICB                      All
                                   50-150                     NCB                      Non

                                                           Shopping                   None
                             Regardlessof value      Direct Contracting                All


  r-3.A Firms                       >loo            0CBS.OBS.FBS.LCS      I            All          I
                                    <loo            QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS,                 None
                                                           and CQS
                             Regardlessof value          Single Source                 All
   -3.B Individuals          Regardlessof value     Comparisonof 3 CVs                None
                                                     inaccordance with
                                                       Chapter V of the
                                                          Guidelines

     Note:  ICB = International Competitive Bidding  NCB = National Competitive Bidding
             QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection QBS = Quality-Based Selection
             FBS = Fixed Budget Selection             LCS = Least-Cost Selection
             CQS = SelectionBased on Consultants' Qualifications
             TOR = Terms of Reference




                                                    37

                  ANNEX 6: Implementationand Monitoring Arrangements
                  Jamaica: Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan

Background
The Government of Jamaica has designatedthe Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) to serve as
the implementing agency for the proposed project. JSIF has an established track record in
implementing GoJ poverty alleviation projects including the ongoing Bank-financed National
Community Development Project (NCDP) and Inner Cities Basic Services for the Poor (ICBSP).
Through the implementationof these projects, JSIF has developed a core competence in Bank
safeguardpolicies, financialmanagementand procurement procedures.JSIF performance inNCDP
implementation has been sufficiently strong to the extent that it is currently estimated that the
project will successfully close prior to the scheduled closing date. JSIF is also currently
implementingOPEC, CDB and EU-financedsocial investment programsalong the lines ofNCDP.

JSIF Governance and ManagementStructurefor the proposedloan
JSIF has a well established management structure that aims to ensure efficiency, effectiveness and
innovation in implementation. A Boardof Directorswill provide oversight on strategic issues and
policy direction during project implementation. The Board is comprised of senior public and
private sector representatives and includes three working sub-committees: (i)Procurement .and
Contracts Committee; (ii) Project Committee; and (iii)Finance & Audit Committee. The Board
will meet on a monthly basis and will review the results of periodic M&E activities. During
preparationa Steering Committeewill be formed.

JSIF internal management will participate in internal management reviews and bid evaluation
committees and will give guidance to the implementationof project activities.Managementreview
and committeemeetings are heldon a weekly basis.The HurricaneDean ERL unit within JSIF will
be led by a Project Manager and will oversee daily implementation.The project will utilize the
existing complement of JSIF staff working on the NCDP which is now almost fully disbursed.
Based on project needs additional staff may also be recruited.The proposedproject will rely upon
core or sharedJSIF staff for MIS, human resources and finance and administrationfunctions.

The project will also procure the services of a range of consultants to support core program
management functions. Consultants will be recruited for the independent supervision of works,
technical and financial audits and impactevaluation amongst other key activities.
Key management, M&E reports will include:

        Monthly internalreportsto JSIF Managementand Board
        Quarterly IFRto the World Bank and the Jamaican government
        RapidAppraisal Reports through focus groups
        JSIF Annual Reportto shareholders,also circulatedto relevant stakeholders
        Annual audit reportsbasedon financialaudit ofthe JSIF by external auditors
        Technical Audit of quality of infrastructureat mid-termand endof project
        Mid-termevaluation of projectinterventions
        End-of-projectevaluation.




                                                38

OperationsManual
JSIF's Operational manual, developed and approved for the ICBSP project incorporates the the
Environment Management and Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Frameworks has
reviewedby the Bank. and will be applicableto the proposedERL.

Coordinationin Implementation
JSIF will assume responsibility for all procurementunder this project. However, Due to the multi-
sectoral nature of the project, a range of partner public agencies, donors and external institutions
will be associated with the implementation of project components. The project will rely on
cooperationagreements- or MoU-with key project partners.




                                                39

                     ANNEX 7: ProjectPreparationand SupervisionTeam
                   Jamaica: Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan

                                                     Planned              Actual
PCN review                                          10/15/2007           10115/2007
Initial PID to PIC                                  11/07/2007           11/07/2007
Initial ISDS to PIC
Appraisal                                           11/29/2007
Negotiations                                        12/03/2007
BoardIRVP approval                                  12/20/2007
Planned date o f effectiveness                      1131/2008
Planned date o f mid-term review                    311512009
Planned closing date                                613012011

Key institutions responsible for preparation o fthe project:




Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                               Title                    Unit
Abhas Jha                        Senior Infrastructure Sepcialist -TTL    LCSUW
Angelica Nunez                              Urban Specialist              M E X W B
Pilar Gonzalez                                  Sr. Counsel               LEGLA
Emmanuel Njomo                         Senior Financial Specialist        LCSFM
Snezana Mitrovic                     Lead Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
Saman Karunaratne                           Finance Analyst               LOADM
Yao Wottor                               Procurement Specialist           LCSPT
Patricia de la Fuente Hoyes              Senior Finance Officer           LOAFC
Jose Janeiro                             Senior Finance Officer           LOAFC
Margarita Pajaro                      Consultant-Urban Specialist         LCSUW
Jessica Wunvarg                      Junior ProfessionalAssociate         LCSUW
Patricia Acevedo                     Language Program Assistant           LCSUW



Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1.Bank resources: $30,000
    2.Trust funds 0:
    3.Total: $30,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1.Remaining costs to approval: $30,000
    2.Estimated annual supervision cost: $120,000




                                                 40

                    ANNEX 8: Environmental and Social Safeguardsz4
                  Jamaica: Hurricane DeanEmergency Recovery Loan


Introduction

        The Jamaica Social InvestmentFund (JSIF) has beenfinancingand implementinga variety
of small-scale community level projects in rural, peri-urbanand urban areas with a scope that is
identicalto this emergency recovery project. These projects have generally positive environmental
impacts, albeit some could result in minor adverse environmental impacts that would, however, be
mostly local andreversible.

        For the purposes of implementing the Inner Cities Basic Services Project (ICBSP),
approved in March 2006, and for all its future operations such as this project, JSIF had developed
an EnvironmentalManagement Framework (EMF) to manage any potentialadverse environmental
impacts in a more structuredand systematic manner. Preparationand adoption of an EMF was also
one of the gap-filling actions required to meet the requirements of using JSIF's procedures under
the Bank's Use of Country Systems pilot.           The EMF ensures that JSIF meets Jamaican
environmental laws and regulations, and also satisfies the relevant policies of its major funding
agencies like the Caribbean Development Bank, the European Union, the Inter-American
DevelopmentBank, the World Bank and other development partners.

        One of the guiding operational principles of JSIF is that projects funded by JSIF must
conformto the Government of Jamaica's environmental regulations and may only have minimum
impacts on the natural and cultural environment. Therefore, the EMF is an integral part of JSIF's
Operations Manual (OM) and is applicable to all investments financed by JSIF, regardless of its
funding source or implementing agency, and including this project. The main objectives of the
EMF are to:


    0   establish procedures for screening all proposed projects for their potential adverse
        environmental impactsand land requirements/acquisition;
    0   specify measures for managing, mitigating and monitoring environmental impacts during
        projectimplementationandoperation; and
    0   outline the ongoing training and capacity-building arrangements needed to successfully
        implement the provisionsof the EMF.

JSIF has also developed a LandAcquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF) to deal
with any land acquisition or involuntary resettlement that may be required for a subproject; the
LARPF also form part of JSIF's OM. An overview of the LARPF is provided at the end of this
annex. Since the ERL is intended only to finance repairs and restoration of existing facilities and
infrastructure, no land acquisition is anticipated, and moreover, the ERL will not finance any
subprojectsthat would require landacquisitionor involuntaryresettlement.

ProjectsFinancedby JSIF

        JSIF finances only small-scale projects which aim to improvethe livelihoodof small rural
and urban communities provide access to basic services, and support income generating activities


24The EMFalso covers social impacts except for landacquisitionandresettlementfor whichJSIF has
adopted a separateResettlementPolicy Framework(RPF) whichis discussedbelow.


                                                  41

through micro credit funding etc. These projects can be classified into three broad groups: (a)
Infrastructure;(b) Social Services; and (c) Capacity Building. However, some of the infrastructure
projects funded by JSIF are likely to have localized minor adverse impacts, mainly during
construction, andtherefore provisionsof this EMF will be applicableto them.

             Becauseof their size/magnitude and significantpotentialenvironmental and social impacts,
some types of projects are ineligiblefor JSIF financing, and the EMF provides a "negative list" of
such projects.None of the repair / reconstruction projects financed under this ERF' will fall into this
category.

Screening Procedures

Jamaican national environmental regulatory requirements are prescribed by the environmental
Permit & License System which is administered by the National Environment and Planning
Agency (NEPA). It is a mechanismto ensure that all Jamaicanfacilities and development projects
meet the relevant standards and procedures to minimize adverse environmental impacts during
construction and operation of a facility. The specific national regulatory requirements are (i)an
environmental permitto construct and/or (ii)a licenseto discharge.NEPA has confirmedthat some
of the JSIF projects would require an environmental permit. NEPA will either grant an
environmental permit, sometimes with terms & conditions, or may requirethe preparation of a full
EnvironmentalImpact Assessment (EM) prior to grantingthe environmental permit. Projects and
facilities that discharge a substance to the atmosphere, to the ground or into surface waters may
requirea license to discharge. This license is also issued by NEPA after review of an application
which is submitted together with the application for an environmental permitto construct. Among
the projects eligible for JSIF financing, only small (package) sewage treatment facilities would fall
intothe category requiringa licenseto discharge.

             The Safeguards Diagnostic Review report has found that the main difference between
Jamaican national environmental requirements for the types of infrastructureprojects financed by
JSIF and those of the World Bank and other internationaldevelopment partners is the preparation
and use of an EMP. An EMP sets out project specific mitigation measures and corresponding
monitoring requirements. The use of generic EMPs for small-scale infrastructure projects with
minor adverse environmental impactshas become internationallyaccepted good practice.

            The EMF provides a matrix to assist with screening JSIF projects and determine,
depending on category and type of project, whether a permit application to NEPA, or an EMP,
including mitigation actions, is required. The detailed screening process by JSIF is set out in the
EMF, and a checklistis providedto guide the technical and environmental 0ffi~ei-sThe                                ~ ~ . screening
and implementation of mitigationmeasuresare fully integratedwith the JSIF projectcycle.

Implementation Arrangements

            The EMF describes in detail the steps for implementing the NEPA requirements. In
addition to a permit, terms & conditions, or a full EIA, NEPA may also require special monitoring
and reportingactions, and normallywill carry out periodic monitoringof the implementationof the
projectto make surethat its requirements are beingmet.



25Some site-specific issues may present serious environmentalrisks and /or impacts.Therefore, the EMFprescribes a site screening
mechanismto identify sites that are potentiallyunsuitabledue to site-specificenvironmental conditions. In addition, the land on which
a project is to be locatedmust comply with the zoning requirementsofNEPA and relevantlocal planning legislation.



                                                                 42

          To assist JSIF officers with implementingEMP requirements, standard generic EMPs have
been prepared for each the main project types and categories, based on the expected likely
environmental impacts during the construction phase26;these generic EMPs are appended to the
EMF. The EMF also prescribes how the applicable EMP(s) are to be incorporated into the bidding
and contract documents to enforce compliance by the contractor. An annex to the EMF contains
additional guidance for detailed steps and actions in good environmentalmanagement, specifically
for the design and operational (O&M) phase.

           The EMF also provides procedures and sets out the required actions to comply with the
requirements of the Jamaica National Heritage Trust Act to protect any chance finds of cultural
property.27However, there is no likelihoodthat any such finds will be made on this project since it
does not involve any new excavations for construction but only reconstructionat the same site, and
not in any areas where chance finds couldbe expected.

           The implementationof projects, including all environmental aspects, is under the overall
responsibility of JSIF. JSIF will employ construction contractor, or projectsmay be implemented
by agreement with and through partner agencies, such as the local Parish Councils for road
projects.

           The provisions of the EMF will apply regardless of the implementing agency, and JSIF
will retainultimateresponsibilityfor the good environmental management of all their projects.

Consultationand Disclosure

           It is JSIF's missionto empower communities to effectively implement community-based
programs aimed at social development.                          JSIF's OM prescribes a project preparation and
implementation process that involvesparticipationof the project community at all keys steps. This
participatory process facilitates the consideration of environmental aspects as it integrates into the
projectcycle disclosure of project informationto, andconsultationwith, the communityconcerned.

          The EMF prescribes the key environment-related consultation and disclosure actions
during project preparation and implementationand stresses the importance of JSIF, its partner
agencies, andespeciallythe communities, to follow andparticipateinthe process.

Monitoring, Reporting and Capacity-Building

The EMF sets out the requirements and responsibilities for monitoring and reporting; this is
facilitatedby JSIF's new MIS. Copies ofthe quarterly and annualEMmonitoringreports will also
be sent to NEPA andto the World Bank for review duringthe periodic supervision missions.

Lastly, the EMF also has provisions for capacity-buildingwithin JSIF, especially for the key
officers, Le. the Environmentand Resettlement Officer (ERO) and their alternates. They in turn,
are to provide trainingto JSIF project officers and community liaisonofficers.




*`Some  projects may have additional requirementsfor mitigation and monitoringin response to issues identified during site screening,
which shall also be specified in the contract documents.

27This provision also satisfiesthe requirementsof the policies on cultural property by the international developmentpartners, such as the
World Bank's,as set out in the draft OP 4.11 on PhysicalCulturalProperty.



                                                                  43

Land Acquisition and ResettlementPolicyFramework

A. Introduction
The Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework summarized below applies to all JSIF-
funded projects.       For JSIF-funded projects, the Policy Framework will supplement existing
Jamaican law pertaining to land acquisition and resettlement (the Land Acquisition Act o f 1947) by
introducing additional compensation measures to achieve compensation at replacement cost and
income restoration together with implementation and consultation arrangements to minimize land
acquisition impacts and obtain the informed consent o f those affected by land acquisition.

JSIF has prepared a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF), which
establishes equivalence with the objectives and operational principles in OP 4.00 and OP/BP 4.12.
The LARPF has been reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank and was approved by the JSIF
Board on January 25, 2006. The framework was also disclosed by the Bank though the InfoShop
on February 6, 2006 and has been made publicly available in-country by the client.28 The final
EMF is also included as part o f the JSIF Operations Manual. A complete Policy Framework has
been incorporated into the JSIF Operations Manual.

Since the land acquisition impacts deriving from projects will be minor, the appropriate instrument
to manage such impacts shall be an Abbreviated Resettlement Plan attached as an annex to the
project proposallplan agreed between the community and JSIF.                If land acquisition causes
displacement, the Abbreviated Resettlement Plan shall include economic rehabilitation measures.

B. Means of Obtaining Land
The infrastructure investments undertaken in JSIF-financed projects are for the most part located
within and identified by the beneficiary communities, which implies that access to land may be
obtained through other means than just land acquisition through eminent domain. Thus, land for
different investment components in a project could be obtained though one or a combination o f the
different means listed below.            While all o f these means o f obtaining land would require
documentation, not all would necessitate payment o f compensation and/or provision o f relocation
and rehabilitation assistance. However, in all cases, care shall be taken to ensure that the persons
involved are fully informed about the project, about the avenues for grievance redress, and confirm
that the donation or long-term lease is voluntary.          This information is provided during the
consultations that take place as part o f the participatory preparation process.




** In-countrydisclosure has been done throughpublication on the JSIF website
(http://www,jsif.orgiinner-city-basic-serv.asp).


                                                     44

          Meansof obtainingland                                          Requirements

Voluntary donation or long term lease of Attached to the project proposal/planmust be Proof of
private land                                       Ownership and Documentationof Donation of Assets or
                                                   Documentationof LongTerm Lease
Donation of community land                         Attached to the project proposal/planmust be Proof of
                                                   Ownershipand Documentationof Donation of Assets.
Willing-seller-willing-buyer transaction           Attached to the project proposauplan must be Proof of
                                                   Ownershipand Documentationof Sale of Assets.
Transfer of public land without squatters or       Attachedto the project proposaVplan must be permission
other encumbrances                                 from the Government Agency holding the land or from
                                                   the CommissionerofLands.
Transfer of public land with squatters or other Attachedto the project proposal/planmust be permission
encumbrances                                       from the Government Agency holding the land or from
                                                   the Commissioner of Lands together with a mitigation
                                                   plan based on this Policy Framework to provide
                                                   rehabilitation and relocationassistance for squatters.
Involuntary land acquisition based on eminent Abbreviated Resettlement Plan attached as an annex to
domain      with     or   without     associated the project proposauplan
disulacement

C.ProjectPreparation,Consultation,and Land AcquisitionPlanning
Given that the persons potentially affected by land acquisition and displacement in JSIF-financed
projects are in most cases also project beneficiaries with a voice in decision making on both the
type o f investments and technical alternatives, there is a strong incentive to seek solutions that
avoid or reduce adverse impacts from land acquisition. During the project preparation process,
consultation on technical options will involve a concurrent assessment o f potential associated land
acquisition impacts as described in the table below. This will facilitate an early and ongoing
identification o f feasible technical design alternatives to avoid or minimize such impacts, and will
also enable consultation with persons affected by land acquisition to obtain their consent regarding
mitigation measures.

    Community Project                       Actions on Land Acquisition                       Responsible
         Preparation
1. Promotion                    Information disseminationon:                              JSIF Environment
(information dissemination           project eligibility (< 10 families to be resettled); & Resettlement
on JSIF funding of projects          needto avoid or minimize land acquisition in         Officer and
and rules of the game)               project planning;                                    Community Liaison
                                     acceptablemeans of obtaining land; and               Officers
                                     compensationoptions for PAPS.
2. Project Application          Indicate:                                                 Community/CBO
                                     expectedneedfor land for specific investment
                                     components;
                                     means of obtaining such land; and
                                     need for land acquisition and assessment of
                                     impacts.
3. Review of Application             Reject application and return for revision if 10     JSIF Environment
                                     or more families are plannedto be resettledas a     & Resettlement
                                     result of envisaged landacquisition.                 Officer
                                     IncludepreparationofAbbreviated
                                     Resettlement Plan in TOR for design consultant
                                     ifrequired.



                                                      45

4. Project Concept           Preliminary Site Screening and Community             JSIF Environment
Development                  Consultationsto:                                     & Resettlement
                                  verify need for land for specific investment    Officer and
                                  components;                                     Technical Appraisal
                                  confirm information on voluntary land           Officers
                                  donations and availability of unused
                                  government land;
                                  assess options for avoiding or minimizing land
                                  acquisition;
                                  ensure that potentially affectedpersons and land
                                  donors are involved in the consultationand
                                  informed of options;
                                  ifsquatters haveto beresettled, attempt to find
                                  secure alternative accommodationfor these in
                                  the community; and
                                  conduct census of PAPs.
5. JSIF Technical & Social        Assist community in obtaining permissionto      JSIF Environment
Review                            use available government land from the Agency   & Resettlement
                                  holding the land or from the Commissioner of    Officer and
                                  Lands;                                          TechnicalAppraisal
                                  Obtain documentationon land donations from      Officers
                                  community and private donors;
                                  Review technical optionsto avoid or minimize
                                  land acquisition;
                                  Compile inventory of assets lost by PAPs;       DesignConsultant
                                  Draft AbbreviatedResettlement Plan; and
                                  Review/approveAbbreviatedResettlement           JSIF Resettlement

                                  Plan.                                           Officer
6. Project Design                 PresentAbbreviatedResettlementPlan in a         JSIF Environment
                                  community consultationto obtain endorsement     & Resettlement
                                  from PAP'Sand community.                        Officer and
                                                                                  Community Liaison
                                                                                  Officers
7. Project Approval           For World Bank assistedprojects:                    JSIF
                                  submit Abbreviated Resettlement Planfor
                                  review and approval; and
                                  disclose the AbbreviatedResettlementPlanat a
                                  place accessible to PAPs and NGOs.

D.Institutional Arrangements
The overall responsibility for the implementation and enforcement of the Land Acquisition &
Resettlement Policy Framework rests with JSIF. Within JSIF, there shall be an Environment&
ResettlementOfficer and a LegalOfficer.

Acquisition of the landrequiredfor a particularprojectwill be undertakenby the Commissioner of
Land based on information and documentation provided by JSIF. Valuation of the assets to be
acquiredwill be conductedby the LandValuationDivision ofthe NationalLandAgency.

Grievance redress will be pursued at different levels (community, JSIF, specialized arbitration
institutions)with recourseto the courts as the last optionfor the aggrieved party.




                                                  46

E. Monitoring Arrangements
For each project, information on land requirementsand the means of obtaining any land required
by a particular project component will be recorded in the MIS for different stages of the project
cycle:

             Project Cycle                                   Data for M I S
Project Application                           Estimated need for land for specific investment
                                              components;
                                              Means of obtaining such land (donation, govt.
                                              land, purchase, landacquisition); and
                                              Scale ofresettlement,if any.
Review of Application                         Approval; or
                                              Rejection(> 10 families to be resettled)
Project Concept Development and               Community consultations (date, # of participants
JSIF Technical & Social Review                includingpotentialPAPs, issues); and
                                              Documentation provided on voluntary land
                                              donationsandtransfer of unusedgovernment land.
Abbreviated Resettlement Plan                 Data from census with inventory of assets lost by
                                              PAPs, entitlements,and socio-economicdata;
                                              Dates of receipt, review, and approval by JSIF of
                                              ARP;
                                              Dates of submissionand approvalby Bank of ARP
                                              (for Bank assistedprojects); and
                                              Date of disclosureofARP.
Implementation                                Delivery of compensation and rehabilitation
                                              entitlementsas per ARP; and
                                              Data on mievanceredress
Post-implementation                           Evaluation including assessment of economic
                                              rehabilitatiodincomerestoration.

Each Abbreviated Resettlement Plan will establish a baseline through the census of PAPs which
will comprise socio-economic data, the inventory of assets lost, and the compensation and
resettlement benefits awarded to the PAPs. Progress monitoring by JSIF will record the timely
provision of compensationto PAPs (whether provided before or after possession was taken of the
asset), and the timely provision of resettlement assistance. The data will be entered into JSIF's
MIS together with information on land provided through voluntary donations, nominal long-term
leases, and vacant government land. An evaluation will be undertaken to establish whether the
objective of the measures to mitigate the land acquisition and resettlement impacts have been
achieved, namely, whether PAPs affected by land acquisition and resettlementhave been able to
improve, or at least restore, their livelihoods and standards of living to pre-displacement levels.
Dataon grievanceredress will also be entered inthe MIS and summarizedinstatus reports.

For projects assisted by the World Bank, periodic supervision will assess whether the
implementationis in compliancewith the provisions inapprovedAbbreviated Resettlement Plans.




                                                47

                    ANNEX 9: Documents in the Project File
            Jamaica: Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan


1. Hurricane Dean Damage Assessment

2. Request from the Government o f Jamaica

3.Assessment o f JSIF Safeguards Compliance Capacity, Environment and Resettlement -
   Final Report (February 2006)

4. JSIF Operations Manual -Draft (January 2006)




                                        48

                               ANNEX 10: StatementofLoansand Credits
                       Jamaica: Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Loan


                                                                                         Difference
                                                                                          between
                                                                                       expectedand
                                                                                           actual
                                     Original Amount in US$ Millions                   disbursements

Project   FY  Purpose                IBRD      IDA      SF     GEF   Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm.
ID                                                                                              Rev'd

PO91299 2006 JM Inner City Basic      29.30     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   27.07    2.20      0.00
              ServicesProject
PO71589 2003 JM- Reform of            39.80     0.00    0.00    0.00  27.30    4.15   31.45      1.29
              Secondary Ed. (ROSE
              11)
PO76837 2003  JM National             15.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.79    -0.80     0.00
              Community Devt.
              Project
PO67774 2002 JM- Social Safety Net    40.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.25     7.25     0.00
              Project
PO74641  2002 JM 2ndAPL               15.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   4.40    0.52    4.92      0.52
              HIV/AIDS
              PREV.AND
              CONTROL DOC

                      Total:         139.10     0.00    0.00    0.00  31.70    39.78  45.02       1.81


                       Jamaica: Hurricane Dean EmergencyRecovery Loan
                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                     Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                       InMillions ofUSDollars
                                             Committed                       Disbursed
                                            IFC                             IFC
     FY       Company             Loan     Equity   Quasi   Partic. Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic.
     Approval

     2003     JPS Co.              0.00       0.00  45.00     0.00   0.00    0.00  45.00     0.00
     2005     Jamaica Energ...     20.00      0.00   8.00    50.00  20.00    0.00   8.00   50.00
     2002     MBJA Limited         19.60      0.00   0.00    24.04  19.60    0.00   0.00   24.04
     2006     MBJA Limited         21.20      0.00   0.00    20.00   3.89    0.00   0.00     3.25
     2005     NCBJ                 30.00      0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00

                 Total portfolio:  90.80      0.00  53.00    94.04  43.49    0.00  53.00   77.29




                                                  49

                                Approvals PendingCommitment
FY       Company               Loan   Equity    Quasi  Partic.
Approval

2006     JEP B Loan Swap      0.00      0.00     0.00  0.00

                 Total pending  0.00    0.00     0.00  0.00
                  commitment:




                              50

                                                  ANNEX 11: Country at a Glance


                                                                L a t h   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America    mlddle-
                                                      Jamaica & Carlb.   Income      Development diamond.

2006
Population,mid-year(millions)                              2.7     556      2,276
GNIpercapita(Atiasmethod, US$)                                                                     Lifeexpectancy
                                                         3,570   4,767      2,037
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                                                                          T
                                                           9,5   2,650      4,635

Average annual growth, 2000-06
Population (Yd                                             0.5       13       09
Laborforce (%)                                             0.1       2.1       14     GNI                                Gross
                                                                                      Per                                pnman
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 2000-06)                              capita                          enrollmenl
Poverty (%of populationbelownationalpo vertyiine)           8
Urbanpopulation(%of totalpopulation)                       53        70       47
Lifeeqectancyat birth (pars)                                71       73        71
Infant mortality (per looolive births)                      17       26        31
Child malnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                     4                  13         Access to lmprovedwatersource
Access to animprovedwater source (%o fpopulation)          93        91        81
Literacy (%ofpopulationage 159                                       90        89
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)        95        18       lt3       7       Jamaica
  Male                                                     95       00        W                 Lower-middle-incomegroup
  Female                                                   94        tB       t14

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                 1986    1996    Z O O 5   2006      Economlc ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                 2.8     6.5       9.7      DO
Gross capital formationIGDP                        6.9    29.1     318                                 Trade
Exports of goods andServicesIGDP                  48.8    43.8      411
Gross domestic savings1GDP                         8 9    176      t? .O                                       -
Gross national savingslGDP                         15.3   251      217

Current account balanceIGOP                        0.5    -2.2     -ne      -09
Interest payments1GDP                                                                 Domestic                       Capital
                                                    81     27        4.0              savings                        formation
Total debtlGDP                                    154.2   62.1     67.0
Total debt serviceleqorts                         45.6    8.7      8.7
Present value of debt1GDP                                          80.3
Present value of debtleqorts                                      04.4
                                                                                                    Indebtedness
                                      1986-96 1996-06    ZOOS   2006 2008-10
(averageannualgmwth)
GDP                                        44       12     18        2.5      2.7       -Jamaica
GDP percapita                              3.7     0.6     13        2.1       15               LOwer-middle-income gmup
Eqortsof goods andservices



STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY


                                                 IS86    1996   2005       2006
(%of GDP)                                                                           /Growtho f capltal and GDP (Oh)

Agnculture                                                 84        57       59
Industry                                                  34 1     33 1      32 8
 Manufactunng                                             155      138        0 7
                                                                                    1'
Services                                                  57 5     612       613

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure             658     690      728                       01    02    03     04    05    OB
Generalgov t final consumption expenditure         143    134      152                        '-GCF       '    L G D P       '
Imports of goodsandservices                       459     553      60 9


                                              1986.96 1996-06   Z O O 5    2006
(averageannualgmMh)                                                                  Growth o f exports and Imports (Oh)

Agnculture                                         4 5    -28      -7 2       159
Industry                                           25      08        27      -09
 Manufactunng                                      07     -07       -13      -24
SeNiCeS                                            39      16        15       33

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure                                                  01     02    03     04    05    OB
Gross capital formation                                                                    ----Expons        -Imports
Imports of goods and services


Note 2006data arepreliminaryestimates
This tablewas producedfrom theDevelopment Economics LDB database
'Thediamonds showfourkeyindicators inthecountry(1nbold) comparedwithits income-groupaverage 11dataare missing,thediamondwll
  be incomplete




                                                                        51

                                                                                                                            Jamaica

P R I C E S and G O V E R N M E N T F I N A N C E
                                                  1986    1996     2005   2006
Domestic prices
(%change)
Consumer pnces                                      151   26 4       153     8 6
Implicit GDP deflator                              26 9    187       9 3     6 3

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                    27 7   25 3      29 0    30 4
Current budgetbalance                               3 7     06      -2 6    -2 4                       GDPdeflator -CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                             -2 1   d 5      -3 8    -5 0                     I-




T R A D E
                                                  1986    1996     2005   2006
(US$ millions)                                                                        Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                                 660    1721      1749    1984
 Alumina                                           205     607      920     1041             T
 Bauxlte                                             90     78        99      10
 Manufactures                                        1V    363       157     `65     4 000

Total Imports (cif)                               1042    3,V2     4 530   4 868
 Food                                               B6      2'12                      2 000
 Fuel andenergy                                     199     452
 Capital goods                                     244      548      7 8     735          0

Export price index(2000=1)0)                                                         I
                                                                                               O0   O'    O2      O3     O4  O5     O6 I
Import price index (ZOOO=WO)
Terms of trade (2000=WO)




B A L A N C E o f P A Y M E N T S
                                                  1986    1996     2005   2006
(US$ misons)                                                                       [current account balance to GDP (oh)

Exports of goods andsewices                        1,414  3,323    3 993   4 847
Imports of goods andsewices                       1,234   3 864    5 975   6 981
Resourcebalance                                      8 1  -542     -2981   -2 a 5

Net income                                         - 3 8  -225      -740    -681
Net currenttransfers                                148     624     1578    1727

Current account balance                               0    -143    -1143   -1089

Financingitems (net)                                -64     4 u     1372    1319
Changes innet reserves                               51    -271     -229    -230

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                       875     2 1s
Conversion rate (DEC locai/US$J                     5 5     37 1    62 3    65 7


EXTERNAL D E B T and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                  1986    1996     2005    2006
(US$ millions)                                                                          :omposition o f 2005 debt (US$ mlll.)

Total debt outstanding anddisbursed               4 247   4 052     6 511
  IBRD                                              572     5 n      4 0     387                      G61J       A 4 1 0
  IDA                                                  0      0        0        0

Total debt service                                  675     657      969
  IBRD                                               78      `121     58      65
  IDA                                                  0      0        0        0

Compositionof net resource flows
  Officialgrants                                     83      39       90
  Officialcreditors                                  -21   -TI4     -145
  Pnvatecreditors                                    -14     24      941
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)             -5     184      682                          `i-1
  Portfolio equity(net inflows)                                                                F 3764
                                                      0       0        0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                         0      77        0        6
                                                                                        \- IBRD                            E- Biiaterd
  Disbursements                                      23      41        TI     B      1 B . IDA     D. Other nultilaterai   F. Private
  Principalrepayments                                30      80       39      43       C - I M F                           G- Shod-teri
  Net tlows                                          -7     -39      -22     -25
  Interest payments                                  48      41        19     22
  Nettransfers                                      -55     -80       -41    -47


Note This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database                                                         9/28/07




                                                                        52

