Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4878-JM 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Hurricane Dean Emergency Recovery Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
JAMAICA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 
 
Dated January 8, 2008 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4878-JM 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated January 8, 2008, entered into between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JAMAICA SOCIAL 
INVESTMENT FUND (the Project Implementing Entity) (the Project Agreement) in connection 
with the Loan Agreement 
(“Loan Agreement”) of same date between JAMAICA (the Borrower) 
and the Bank.  The Bank and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  
To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is its Managing Director. 
 
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
Page  3
-2- 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Address is: 
 
Jamaica Social Investment Fund 
IC - IF Pawsey Road 
Kingston 5 
Jamaica 
 
Facsimile: 
 
876-929-8427 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCITON AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Yvonne M. Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
JAMAICA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 
 
By /s/ Scarlette Gillings 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-3- 
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements.
 
1. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the Project 
Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual, including the 
Environmental Management Framework (“EMF”) and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework (“LARPF”).  The Operations Manual or any part thereof shall not be amended, 
waived, suspended or abrogated without the Bank’s prior written concurrence, and in case of any 
inconsistency between the provisions of the Operations Manual and those of this Agreement, the 
provisions of this Agreement shall prevail; 
(b) 
maintain, throughout Project implementation: 
(i) 
a unit to oversee daily Project implementation, headed by a Project 
manager and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, including staff 
trained in the areas of environmental management, resettlement and land 
acquisition, and such staff shall continue to receive periodic training in 
such areas; and 
(ii) 
a Board of Directors which provides general oversight and policy 
direction for Project implementation, with composition and functions 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(c) 
provide training in environmental management, resettlement and land 
acquisition, including the application of the EMF and LARPF, to staff of Borrower
 
agencies and 
other service providers involved in related Project activities; 
(d) 
maintain at all times during Project implementation a management information 
system, which shall incorporate the monitoring requirements for the EMF and the LARPF;  
(e) 
conduct an annual audit of sample projects to learn lessons from the application 
of EMF and LARPF and introduce corrective measures to ensure improved processes are 
sustained; and 
(f) 
promptly inform the Bank of any developments in the legislation or regulations 
of the Borrower, and/or the rules or procedures of the Borrower or Project Implementing Entity 
that may affect the performance of the Project, or the application of the EMF or LARPF. 
Page  5
-4- 
2. 
No later than January 31, 2008, the Project Implementing Entity shall approve revisions 
to the financial management chapter of the Operations Manual in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, to incorporate the activities undertaken under the Project. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) 
of the General Conditions, with the timing and periodicity set forth in Section II.A.1 of Schedule 
II to the Loan Agreement, and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Bank.  The Project 
Implementing Entity shall include in the Project Reports the monitoring results of: (a) the 
application of EMF and LARPF to the Project; and (b) the measures taken for improvement, and 
to maintain equivalency 
to the objectives and principles of the Bank’s relevant policies, of the 
Project Implementing Entity’s environmental and resettlement and land acquisition systems. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Bank, in the report referred to in 
Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions and Section II.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request for the 
purposes of those Sections. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank 
not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial 
reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph B.1 above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these financial 
statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The 
audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the Borrower and the Bank not 
later than four months after the end of the period.
 
Page  6
-5- 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
