Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
August 30, 2010 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
H.E. Audley Shaw 
Minister of Finance and the Public Service  
Ministry of Finance and the Public Service  
30 National Heroes Circle 
Kingston 4, Jamaica 
 
Re:
 
Jamaica:
 
Tropical Storm Gustav Emergency Recovery Grant Project  
 
GFDRR Grant No. TF097314
Excellency: 
 
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Jamaica (
“Recipient”), I 
am pleased to inform you that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(“World Bank”), acting as administrator of grant funds provided under Track III Standby Recovery 
Financing Facility, Callable Fund – Tropical Storm Gustav Recovery Grant (TF071345), proposes to 
extend to the Recipient a grant in an amount not to exceed one million seven hundred twenty eight 
thousand five hundred eighty five Euros (EUR 1,728,585) (“Grant”) on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement”), which includes the attached Annex, to 
assist in the financing of the project described in the Annex (“Project”).  This Grant is funded out of 
the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic contributions.  In 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this 
Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds. 
 
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized 
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to the 
World Bank.   
 
Page  2
2
Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement shall 
become effective as of the date specified by the World Bank in accordance with Section 5.02 of 
the Annex to this Agreement. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By pp David Warren  
Yvonne Tsikata 
Director 
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
JAMAICA 
 
By /s/ 
Audley Shaw  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Title: 
Minister of Finance and the Public Service  
 
Date: October 
5, 
2010 
 
Enclosures:   
 
(1) 
Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, dated 
 
July 31, 2010. 
 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter of even date herewith, together with World Bank Disbursement 
 
Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006. 
 
Page  3
3
G
rant No. TF097314 
ANNEX 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
Standard Conditions.
 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out 
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (
“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.  
 
1.02. 
Definitions.  
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement. 
 
Article II 
Project Execution 
 
2.01. 
Project Objectives and Description.
 
The objective of the Project is to support the 
Recipient in its efforts to restore levels of service in selected community infrastructure, specifically 
early childhood, primary and all age schools and community health clinics at a minimum to pre-
tropical storm levels.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts:  
 
(a) 
Carrying out of rehabilitation of selected facilities, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
rehabilitation of early childhood, primary and all age schools and community health clinics in the 
Recipient’s parishes of Clarendon, St. Catherine, St. Elizabeth, Westmoreland, Kingston and St. 
Andrews. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of maintenance and disaster preparedness training to each community 
that benefits from an infrastructure project to increase the sustainability of investments, including the 
following modules: (i) maintenance of buildings, roads, equipment and water supply systems; (ii) 
basic disaster management; (iii) hurricane safety; (iv) flood safety; (v) earthquake safety; (vi) fire 
safety; (vii) basic shelter management; (viii) telecommunications; and (ix) community hazard 
mapping. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out monitoring, evaluation and communication of the Project activities 
under Parts (a) and (b) immediately above.  
 
2.02. 
Project Execution Generally.
 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by Jamaica 
Social Investment Fund (“Project Implementing Entity”) in accordance with the provisions of: (a) 
Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) this Article II; (c) the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”), with the modifications set forth 
in Section I of the Appendix to this Agreement;”); and (d) the Subsidiary Agreement referred to 
in Section 2.03 of this Annex, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, with the 
approval of the World Bank. 
 
Page  4
4
2.03. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
 
(a) 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity on a grant basis under a 
subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms 
and conditions approved by the Bank (“Subsidiary Agreement”) including, 
inter alia
,
the 
provisions set forth in the Attachment to this Annex. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate,
 
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
(b) 
Safeguards and Operations Manual 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that: (i) the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the Operations Manual, including the Environmental Management Framework 
(“EMF”) and the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (“LARPF”); and (ii) the 
Operations Manual or any part thereof is not amended, waived, suspended or abrogated without 
the Bank’s prior written concurrence, and in case of any inconsistency between the provisions of 
the Operations Manual and those of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
2. 
For purposes of this section the terms: 
(i) 
“Environmental Management Framework” or “EMF” means the 
policy framework for environmental management, approved by the Project Implementing 
Entity’s Board of Directors on January 25, 2006, as it may be amended from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Bank, which sets forth the environmental policies and 
procedures that shall apply to the carrying out of the Project;  
 
(ii) 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” or 
“LARPF” means the policy framework for land acquisition and resettlement approved by 
the Project Implementing Entity’s Board of Directors on January 25, 2006, as it may be 
amended from time to time with the prior approval of the Bank, which sets forth the 
policies and procedures that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of any land 
acquisition or resettlement action plan that may be required under the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
“Operations Manual” means the manual, including all 
appendices and schedules thereto, satisfactory to the Bank and adopted by the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Board of Directors, which sets forth the policies and procedures 
that apply to the carrying out of all the Project Implementing Entity’s implemented 
projects, including the amendments to the version dated March 2002 (as revised June 
2004), and any other amendments made with the prior approval of the Bank.  The 
Operations Manual includes: (A) the criteria and procedures to be followed in the 
identification, preparation, appraisal, approval, contracting and supervision of Project 
Page  5
5
activities; (B) the EMF and LARPF; and (C) the procedures and criteria for selecting 
infrastructure works. 
 
2.04. 
Donor Visibility and Visit
.
(a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such 
measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the 
Donor’s support for 
the Project.   
 
(b)  
For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall, 
upon the World Bank’s request, enable the representatives of the Donor
 
to visit any part of the 
Recipient’s territory for purposes related to the Project. 
2.05.
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
(a) The Recipient shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the 
World Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than December 31, 2011. 
 
2.06. 
Financial Management.
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank, not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter, 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall, have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each such audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial 
Statements for such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after 
the end of such period.  
 
2.07. 
Procurement
 
(a) General
.
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in: 
 
(i) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(“Procurement Guidelines”), in the case of goods and works;  
 
(ii) 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; 
and 
 
Page  6
6
(iii) 
the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan”). 
 
(b) Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of 
this Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank 
of particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
(c) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
(ii) 
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods and works for those contracts specified in the Procurement 
Plan: (A) National Competitive Bidding (B) Shopping; and (C) Direct Contracting. 
 
(d) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
(ii) 
The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ 
services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (A) Quality-based 
Selection; (B) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (C) Least Cost Selection; (D) Selection based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications; (E) Single-source Selection; and (F) Selection of Individual 
Consultants. 
 
(e) 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
.
The Procurement Plan 
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Article III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
3.01. 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table.  The table specifies the 
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
(“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  7
7
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means:  (i) reasonable travel, room, board and 
per diem
 
expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by non-
consultant training facilitators; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training 
material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise covered 
under this paragraph; and  
 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel, 
per 
diem
 and supervision costs, and salaries of locally contracted employees (none of which would 
have been incurred in the absence of the Project). 
 
3.02. 
Withdrawal Conditions.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature 
of this Agreement by the Recipient. 
 
3.03. 
Withdrawal Period.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard 
Conditions is June 30, 2011. 
 
Article IV 
Additional Remedies 
 
4.01. 
Additional Event of Suspension.
 
The Additional Event of Suspension referred to in 
Section 4.02 (k) of the Standard Conditions consists of the following, namely that, the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, affect materially and adversely the ability of the Project 
Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Article V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in EUR
)
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes
)
(1)  Goods, works, 
 consultants’ 
services, 
 
Training and Operating 
 Costs 
1,728,585 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,728,585  
Page  8
8
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World Bank 
has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below have been satisfied: 
 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action. 
(b) 
The Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of this Annex has been 
executed on behalf of the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
5.02. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement shall 
become effective as of the date on which the World Bank dispatches to the Recipient notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 5.01 of this Annex (“Effective Date”); 
provided, however, that
 
if before the Effective Date, any event occurred which would have 
entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account if this Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist. 
 
Article VI 
Recipien
t’s Representative; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
Recipient’s Representative
.
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 
of the Standard Conditions is the Minister responsible for finance. 
 
6.02. 
Recipient’s Address
.
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
Ministry of Finance and the Public Service 
30 National Heroes Circle 
Kingston 4 
Jamaica 
 
Facsimile: 
876-924-9291 
 
6.03. 
World Bank’s Address
.
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the 
Standard Conditions is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
9
A
TTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX 
Subsidiary Agreement pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Annex to the Agreement 
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds of the 
Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity on a grant basis, under the Subsidiary 
Agreement as set forth in Section 2.03(a) of the Annex to this Agreement and on terms 
and conditions approved by the World Bank including, 
inter alia
,
the following:  
 
(a) 
the requirement that the Project Implementing Entity carry out the Project 
activities with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and technical, practices, and provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project; 
 
(b) 
the obligation of  the Project Implementing Entity to comply with the procedures 
for procurement of consultants’ services set forth in  the Procurement Plan and 
this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the requirement that the Project Implementing Entity fully collaborate with the 
Recipient in order to permit timely compliance with the requirements set forth in 
Sections 2.05 and 2.06 of the Annex to this Agreement, including that the Project 
Implementing Entity (i) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the World Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition, including the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project activities; (ii) have such financial statements audited 
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank, and promptly 
furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the World Bank; and 
(iii) prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the World Bank all such 
information as the Recipient and the World Bank shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing; 
 
(d) 
the obligation of the Project Implementing Entity to exchange views with the 
Recipient and the World Bank with regard to the progress of the Project and the 
performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;  
 
(e) 
the requirement that the Project Implementing Entity promptly inform the 
Recipient and the World Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of the Project, or the performance of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement; and 
 
(f) 
the requirement that the Project Implementing Entity carry out the Project in 
compliance with the terms of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Grant. Except as the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof
.
Page  10
10 
 
A
PPENDIX 
 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
Section I.  
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
 
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or 
entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the 
individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity, 
including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible 
publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, 
for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or 
implementation of the project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the 
Bank, if at any time the Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity 
has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed 
contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions 
policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early 
temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a 
sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment 
agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use 
of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of 
any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and 
Page  11
11 
 
agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines 
or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose 
of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full 
set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal 
protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other 
financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website 
and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
