Rehabilitation of education, health and road infrastructure in Jamaica after passage of Hurricane
Dean in August 2007
                                                                                                         94067
                                                                                                         April 16, 2012




 Rehabilitation of education, health and road infrastructure in Jamaica
 after passage of Hurricane Dean in August 2007


Overview
After Hurricane Dean swept through Jamaica in August 2007, the government was faced with
the daunting task of rebuilding and repairing essential services for tens of thousands of people,
including schools, health centers, and roads. From December 2007 to June 2011, a World
Bank project successfully rehabilitated 71 facilities within 13 Parishes that felt the brunt of
Hurricane Dean. Results show that levels of service in targeted facilities were restored at least
to pre-hurricane level. Target facilities included 37 primary or all-age and basic schools, 19
health clinics and 15 roads. The project also financed capacity building in disaster
preparedness and infrastructure maintenance in all the communities addressed by the project.


Challenge
Jamaica is highly vulnerable to natural disasters, with a total
                                                                    More Results
of 96.3 percent of the population and 94.9 percent of its
gross domestic product (GDP) exposed to two or more

                                                                    10%
natural hazards. Hurricane Dean hit Jamaica in August 2007,
causing extensive damage estimated at US$330 million.
Approximately 10 percent of the population was directly
affected by the hurricane, with a total of six deaths and 630       of the population was directly
                                                                    affected by hurricane Dean
people injured. Schools, health centers, and roads suffered
most of the damage. The Government of Jamaica
approached the Bank to help it address the reconstruction

                                                                    US$10
needs of the poorer segments of the population. The goal
was to serve communities and their basic infrastructure
facilities for which no resources for reconstruction were
available. In particular, the project also helped address the
limited capacity at the government and community levels to
better manage natural risks.
                                                                    million
                                                                    is the loan from the International
                                                                    Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                                    Development
Approach
The project design combined reconstruction of affected

                                                                    62,790
education, health, and roads facilities with capacity-building
to strengthen local and national capacity for disaster risk
management. More importantly, the reconstruction efforts
emphasized the philosophy of “building back better”; for            members of the communities
                                                                    affected by Hurricane Dean
example by introducing simple technologies such as                  directly benefited from the
hurricane straps in all the buildings, even if only one section     project
of the building had been damaged, or by introducing safety
or sanitation features within school facilities that were not
present before the Hurricane. It also emphasized the                LEARN MORE
involvement of the local community through the creation of
local maintenance committees.                                         The Gleaner - Refurbished Fairy
                                                                      Hill Health Centre reopens

                                                                      Jamaica Gleaner June 8th 2011:
Results                                                               Labyrinth Primary to be rescued
                                                                      from bats
From December 2007 to June 2011, the Emergency
Recovery Loan helped to restore services in targeted                  JSIF news webpage
facilities through the reconstruction of 71 schools, health
clinics, and rural roads that benefited 56,540 people. For
example, attendance to primary and all-age schools climbed
from 80 percent in 2007 to 90 percent in 2011; and usage
rates for health clinics increased from 100 percent in 2007 to
125 percent in 2011. Although increases in attendance and usage rates cannot be fully
attributed to the rehabilitation works, the indicator shows the general trend towards
reestablishment of pre-hurricane service rates.
These results are backed by beneficiary satisfaction surveys conducted twice throughout the
life of the project, in 2009, and 2011. Survey results surpassed – in all cases - the original
target of 60 percent of respondents satisfied or very satisfied with the rehabilitation works. A
total of 96 percent of beneficiaries reported to be satisfied (or very satisfied) with the
rehabilitation works of the early childhood facilities, 82 percent  with the primary and all-age
schools, 88 percent with the clinics, and 71 percent with the roads. Through its capacity
building component, the project trained 330 community members and formed 71 maintenance
committees.


Bank Contribution
The project was entirely financed through a loan of US$10 million from the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.


Partners
The project leveraged additional resources to complement its rehabilitation and capacity
building components. These included a US$2.5 million grant from the European Commission to
rehabilitate basic infrastructure in the education and health sectors after Tropical Storm Gustav
hit the island in 2008. The grant closed in December 2011 and successfully supported the
rehabilitation of 12 sub-projects. A second source of additional funding was a US$212,700
grant from the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery to finance preparation and
dissemination of coastal multi-hazard mapping and vulnerability assessments in three coastal
communities in Jamaica.


Moving Forward
The project’s design incorporated measures to increase the sustainability of the investments. In
each of the targeted facilities, the project supported the creation and training of local
maintenance committees, which included facility staff, interest groups (such as parents’
associations for education facilities) and individuals. Their broad responsibility is to coordinate
the necessary efforts to ensure that the facility is properly maintained. These committees
prepare and implement a maintenance plan, promote community awareness on the importance
of adequate maintenance of public assets, and carry out measures to secure funding for
maintenance through fundraising.


Beneficiaries
The direct beneficiaries of the project were the members of the communities affected by
Hurricane Dean; specifically 62,790 people who directly benefited.
According to the principal of Labyrinth Primary School, Audrey Fisher, the [rehabilitation] effort
is expected to improve the numbers of students attending the school, especially as it will also
provide more food through a breakfast and lunch programme, which will be boosted through
chicken broiler and layer house construction.” Quoted from The Gleaner Newspaper, June 8,
2011.
“The Elim Early Childhood Institution in St. Elizabeth is one of several schools to have received
attention under a joint World Bank/European Union (EU) hurricane-recovery programme. Elim
Early Childhood Institution's principal, Tamuca Forbes, recalls that "there were cracks to the
building and the building itself was falling apart. The building had no ceiling, no proper
ventilation, it was not enclosed, it was unsafe really for the children.” Quoted from The Gleaner
Newspaper, October 3, 2011.
