Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB4184 
Operation Name 
Second Economic Governance and Recovery Grant (EGRG II) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (30%); General energy sector 
(25%); Crops (25%); Banking (20%) 
Project ID 
P112368 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF COTE D'IVOIRE 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
September 24, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 29, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 23, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Côte d’Ivoire, a medium-size country with a population of 18.5 million, is the largest economy in 
the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) and is critical to the overall 
development of the sub-region.
 
Côte d’Ivoire has an important economic influence over the rest of the 
region, given its size (accounting for 40 percent of GDP in the UEMOA), its relatively high income per 
capita (US$910 in 2007), and its role in transit trade for landlocked neighbors.  However, the civil war 
in 2002-03 and subsequent years of stalemate in the peace process have taken a heavy toll on the 
economy and social outcomes.  As a result, Côte d’Ivoire’s ranking in the UN Human development 
Index (HDI) deteriorated from 154
th
 (out of 174 countries) in 1999 to 166
th
 (out of 177) in 2007, 
considerably lower than what would be expected given the country’s income level. 
Following the signing of the Ouagadougou Peace Accord of March 2007, Côte d’Ivoire is 
gradually emerging from political crisis. 
The Government is making progress towards the 
reunification of the country and preparation of presidential elections. With the deterioration in 
governance and transparency during the conflict, the Government is pursuing efforts started in 2007 to 
restore public financial management processes and procedures throughout the country, improve 
governance and growth prospects in the country’s two main export and public revenue sources (energy 
and cocoa), and restructure the financial sector to ensure its sustainability.   
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The key objective of the proposed EGRG II is to support government-owned reforms to improve 
governance, transparency and efficiency in public expenditure management as well as advance 
structural reforms aimed at strengthening governance and transparency in key sectors of the 
economy.
 
Specifically, it would focus on supporting the Government’s efforts to restore the normal 
budget cycle and strengthen budget preparation, execution, controls and accountability.  In addition, it 
would contribute to enhancing private sector confidence, investment and growth recovery through 
improved governance and transparency in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors.  
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
Page  2
This one-
tranche Development Policy Operation (DPO) supports the Government’s efforts to 
pursue the implementation of governance reforms initiated under the EGRG approved by the 
Board in April 2008.
 
The grant is an integral part of IDA’s Interim Strategy Note for Côte d’Ivoire for 
the period FY08-FY09 and is closely coordinated with assistance provided to support the program of 
Government’s reforms through the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant (US$13 
million), the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, the IMF EPCA and the expected three-year PRGF program.  
Specifically, it would focus on supporting the Government’s efforts to restore the normal budget cycle 
and strengthen budget preparation, execution, controls and accountability.  In addition, it would 
contribute to enhancing private sector confidence, investment and growth recovery through improved 
governance and transparency in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors.  This strategy would lead over 
time to regularized financial relations with the country’s creditors, strengthened fiscal sustainability, and 
improved economic governance and enhanced transparency of State institutions and processes in the key 
sectors, and, together with other elements of the Government’s strategy that commit it to pro-poor 
spending and support for economic growth, prepare the stage for anticipated debt relief under the HIPC 
Initiative and MDRI. 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to have 
significant direc
t
effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources.  
The 
reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen economic governance at the national government level.  
However, the operation touches on two sectors, energy and cocoa, that have very significant associated 
environmental risks.  Therefore, the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant is 
financing under its upstream petroleum component a Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA) 
aimed to identify regulatory, procedural and institutional improvements for the prevention and 
management of the potential social and environmental impact of petroleum operation, with particular 
emphasis on offshore petroleum developments.  [Draft TORs for the SEA have been discussed and 
agreed upon with the Government and finalized.]  Also, an environmental assessment is currently 
ongoing to examine the environmental and social issues in the cocoa sector, including an analysis of the 
impact of the measures proposed by Government to strengthen the cocoa sector on forestry, biodiversity, 
and more broadly on land use.  It is expected that the finding of the assessment will be reflected in the 
Government’s cocoa sector strategy. 
 
5. 
 
Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Richard Antonin Doffonsou 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5331+3418 
Email: rdoffonsou@worldbank.org 
Location: Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire (IBRD) 
 
