Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H473-CI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Economic Governance and Recovery Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 14, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H473-CI
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated April 14, 2009
,
entered into between REPUBLIC OF CÔTE 
D’IVOIRE (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in 
the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and the 
Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to ninety-six million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 96,400,000) (
“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
2.05.  
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, that is, a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
B.P.V 163  
Abidjan 
Côte d’Ivoire 
Cable: 
  Facsimile: 
MINFIN   225-20-30-25-25 
Abidjan 
  225-20-30-25-28 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Abidjan, Côte d’Ivoire, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D’IVOIRE 
 
By /s/ Charles Koffi Diby 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Madani M. Tall 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
Public Expenditure Management
1. 
Approval, by Presidential ordinance no later than December 31, 2007, of a budget for the 
year 2008, and publication of the 
Recipient’s Cabinet’s communiqué regarding said 
budget in the Official Gazette and the principal daily newspaper. 
2. 
Submission, to the Chamber of Accounts, by the Recipient’s ministry at the time 
responsible for finance, of draft budget execution bills for the years 2005 and 2006. 
3. 
Execution through treasury advances of less than 15 percent of current cumulative 
expenses for the year 2008, excluding wages and salaries, debt service, and expenditures 
financed through the revolving fund cash account mechanism (
r
égies d’avances
)
and 
from external sources. 
4. 
Adoption of a time-bound roadmap 
by
the Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for 
finance, aimed at separating policy functions from execution and control ones in public 
procurement. 
 Energy
5. 
Completion of an audit of the electricity sector, and submission to the Association of a 
letter of sector policy, satisfactory to the Association, reflecting the key recommendations 
of said audit, and aimed at improving the sector’s efficiency and restoring its financial 
viability. 
6. 
Operationalization of the National Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 
Committee and adoption of a work plan and budget for said Committee for 2008-09 by 
the Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for finance. 
Cocoa
7. 
Reduction, of CFA Francs 15 / kilogram, in the total amount of quasi-fiscal levies 
collected on cocoa during the 2008-09 cocoa season by entities in the sector (including 
the Coffee and Cocoa Exchange, Coffee and Cocoa Producers’ Activities Development 
and Promotion Fund, Coffee-Cocoa Regulation and Inspection Fund, Coffee and Cocoa 
Page  7
6
Regulatory Authority, bagging), relative to the amount collected during the 2007-08 
season.
 
8. 
Submission to the Association of quarterly reports relating to the investment projects 
approved for 2008 under the
 Coffee and Cocoa Producers’ Activities Development and 
Promotion Fund’s Investment Fund (Investment), Coffee and Cocoa Regulation and 
Inspection Fund’s Prudential Reserve, and Rural Investment Fund, including the 
implementation status of such projects, for the first three (3) quarters of 2008. 
9. 
(a) Submission to the Association of draft internal audit reports of the Coffee and Cocoa 
Exchange, Coffee and Cocoa Producers’ Activities Development and Promotion Fund, 
Coffee-Cocoa Regulation and Inspection Fund, and Coffee and Cocoa Regulatory 
Authority; (b) establishment of a committee responsible for the management of the 
restructuring of the sector; and (c) adoption of a letter of cocoa sector policy, satisfactory 
to the Association. 
 Finance
10. 
(a) Finalization of recapitalization plans, satisfactory to the Banking Commission, for 
two (2) commercial banks having negative equity as of December 31, 2006 as per the 
report of said Commission; (b) completion of a financial and operational audit of the 
National Investment Bank; and (c) completion, and approval by the Recipient’s Cabinet, 
of a microfinance strategy, satisfactory to the Association. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
96,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
96,400,000 
Page  8
7
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into a dedicated foreign currency account designated by the 
Recipient and acceptable to the Association (“Deposit Account”); and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4) 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit Account and its 
audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that 
an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such 
request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Banking Commission” (
Commission Bancaire
)
means the entity, established and 
operating under the West African Economic and Monetary Union Convention 
Establishing the Banking Commission of April 24, 1990, responsible for the oversight of 
banks and other financial institutions in the territory of said Union, including that of the 
Recipient. 
2. 
“CFA Franc” means the Franc of the Financial Community of Africa (
Franc de la 
Communauté Financière de l’Afrique
), the currency of the Recipient. 
3. 
“Chamber of Accounts” (
Chambre des Comptes
)
means the Recipient’s entity, under the 
supervisory authority of the Supreme Court, established and operating under the 
Recipient’s Constitution of November 1960 and Law No. 94-438 of August 16, 1994, and 
which is responsible for the inspection of public accounts management by the Recipient’s 
treasury. 
4. 
“Coffee and Cocoa Exchange” (
Bourse du Café et du Cacao
)
means the Recipient’s 
entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2001-465 of July 25, 2001, 
responsible for the marketing of coffee and cocoa. 
5. 
“Coffee and Cocoa Producers’ Activities Development and Promotion Fund” (
Fonds de 
développement et de promotion des Activités des producteurs de café et de cacao
)
means 
the Recipient’s entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2001-1512 of 
August 28, 2001, responsible for the development and promotion of the coffee and cocoa 
sector. 
6. 
“Coffee-Cocoa Regulation and Inspection Fund” (
Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle 
Café-Cacao
)
means the Recipient’s entity, established and operating under its Ordinance 
No. 2001-666 of October 24, 2001, responsible for the financial regulation and inspection 
of the coffee and cocoa sector. 
7. 
“Coffee and Cocoa Regulatory Authority” (
Autorité de régulation du Café et du Cacao
)
means the Recipient’s entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2000-751 of 
February 10, 2000, responsible for the regulation of the coffee and cocoa sector. 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
Page  10
9
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
Page  11
10
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
9. 
“Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” means the voluntary global compact, 
launched in June 2003, aimed at improving transparency and accountability in the 
extractives sector, and which comprises a coalition of governments, enterprises, civil 
society groups, investors, and public international organizations. 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.  
11. 
“National Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Committee” means the 
Recipient’s entity, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree 
No. 2008-25 of February 20, 2008, and which is responsible for the implementation of 
the principles of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. 
12. 
“National Investment Bank” (
Banque Nationale d’Investissement
)
means the Recipient 
enterprise established and operating under the Recipient’s Law No. 97-519 of 
September 4, 1997 and the Recipient’s Decree No. 98-11 of January 14, 1998. 
13. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to contribute 
to the Recipient’s capacity to improve public financial management and control, and 
enhance governance, transparency and efficiency in the energy, cocoa, and financial 
sectors as set forth or referred to in the letter dated March 3, 2009 from the Recipient to 
the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, 
and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution.
 
14. 
“Prudential Reserve” (
Réserve de prudence
)
means the Recipient’s entity, established and 
operating under its Ordinance No. 2001-666 of October 24, 2001, responsible for the 
financial regulation of the coffee and cocoa sector. 
15. 
“Rural Investment Fund” (
Fonds d’Investissement en milieu rural
)
means 
the Recipient’s 
entity, established and operating under its Decree No. 2006-14 of February 24, 2006, 
responsible for the approval and monitoring and evaluation of rural investment project. 
Page  12
11
16. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
Page  13
12
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.”
 
