Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No. AB4243   
Project Name 
Cote d'Ivoire: Second Economic Governance and Recovery Grant 
(EGRG II) 
Region 
AFR 
Sector 
Central government administration (30%), General energy sector 
(25%), Crops (25%), Banking (20%) 
Project ID 
P112368 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Côte d'Ivoire 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
January 30, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 26, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Board Approval 
March 26, 2009 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Côte d’Ivoire, a medium-size country with a population of 18.5 million, is the largest 
economy in the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) and is critical to 
the overall development of the sub-region.
 
Côte d’Ivoire has an important economic influence 
over the rest of the region, given its size (accounting for 40 percent of GDP in the UEMOA), its 
relatively high income per capita (US$960 in 2007 as per the Bank’s Atlas methodology), and its 
role in transit trade for landlocked neighboring countries.  With its large immigrant population, 
Côte d’Ivoire has also been an important source of worker remittances for other countries in the 
sub-region.  The country is the largest exporter of cocoa in the world, and the fourth largest 
exporter in sub-Saharan Africa. It has a relatively diversified agricultural economy as well as 
significant manufacturing and services sectors.  However, the civil war in 2002-03 and 
subsequent years of stalemate in the peace process have taken a heavy toll on the economy and 
social outcomes.  As a result, Côte d’Ivoire’s ranking in the UN Human Development Index 
(HDI) deteriorated from 154
th
 (out of 174 countries) in 1999 to 166
th
 (out of 177) in 2007, 
considerably lower than what would be expected given the country’s income level. 
After more than a decade of civil strife and economic hardship, Côte d’Ivoire is in the 
process of economic recovery and political normalization
.
The March 2007 Ouagadougou 
Political Accord, which received the support of the international community, set out a roadmap 
for disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, the dismantling of militias, reunification of 
the country, and preparations for elections.
1
A
new transition Government, with Forces 
Nouvelles leader Guillaume Soro as Prime Minister, was formed in early April 2007; later in 
2007, an integrated command center for the army and rebel forces was set up, the “confidence 
1
The supplemental Ouagadougou Accord of November 2007 aimed to implement the roadmap faster, especially the 
reunification of the army. 
Page  2
2
zone” was eliminated, and prefects for all districts and judges for the nationality identification 
hearings were appointed.  Progress has also been made in the re-installment of prefectural 
authorities and the re-deployment of the public administration and service provision in the 
Western, Northern and Western regions, formerly held by the rebels.  In addition, the security 
situation has steadily improved and military roadblocks and racketeering have been significantly 
reduced in recent months.  
 
There has been some progress in preparing for presidential elections, but they have been 
delayed until 2009.
 
The technical operator has started identification and enrollment operations 
on September 15, although one month behind schedule.  The disarmament of militias and the 
reintegration of rebel forces into military or civilian life have started.  However, the political 
parties agreed that the date of November 30 for national elections was unrealistic. A new date is 
to be announced before the end of 2008, and this date is likely to fall towards the end of the first 
half of 2009.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed grant would support the Government’s efforts to implement governance and 
efficiency reforms initiated under the first EGRG approved by the Board in April 2008.
 
Specifically, the EGRG II focuses on continuing and deepening policy reforms to improve public 
financial management (PFM), and governance, transparency and efficiency in three key sectors 
–
energy, cocoa and finance.  The proposed reforms are essential to the Government’s ability to 
use public resources efficiently and effectively to support the country’s economic and social 
recovery. These actions will be followed by a more comprehensive program of reforms that the 
Government has developed in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper which was finalized in early 
2009.  The reforms could be supported by a PRSC series focusing on continuing and further 
deepening reforms in the areas covered by the proposed EGRG II. This strategy would lead over 
time to regularized financial relations with the country’s creditors, strengthened fiscal 
sustainability, improved economic governance and enhanced transparency of State institutions 
and, together with other elements of the Government’s strategy devoted to pro-poor spending, 
prepare the stage for anticipated debt relief under the HIPC Initiative and MDRI. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
Côte d’Ivoire is at a critical stage in the process of post-conflict recovery. 
It has made 
important progress in political reconciliation and macroeconomic management, but much 
remains to be done.  Significant funding is needed to finance the preparations for elections and 
the demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants. Arrears to the World Bank were cleared 
in April 2008, with a large contribution from the Côte d’Ivoire government, and arrears to the 
AfDB are expected to be cleared in February 2009.  Social sector and infrastructure spending has 
suffered for many years and the needs are great.     
This operation supports continued progress on some critical reforms initiated under the 
first EGRG. 
These will lay
 
the basis for economic and social recovery
.
Specifically, it will 
support the Government’s efforts to restore the normal budget cycle and strengthen budget 
preparation, execution, controls and accountability.  In addition, it will contribute to enhance 
governance, transparency and efficiency in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors.  Cocoa and 
Page  3
3
oil and gas are the two major exports and sources of government revenue.  Cocoa involves 23 
percent of the population and 28 percent of the poor.  Oil and gas account for 18.8 percent of 
government revenue.  A stronger financial sector will be critical to underpinning the entire 
economic recovery. 
The grant is an integral part of IDA’s Interim Strategy Note for Côte d’Ivoire for the 
period FY08-FY09
 and is closely coordinated with assistance provided to support the program 
of Government’s reforms through the ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant 
(US$13 million), the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, the IMF EPCA and the expected three-year 
PRGF program.  The EGRG II is part of the program that would help pave the way for Côte 
d’Ivoire to access debt relief under the HIPC and MDRI initiatives.  It is expected that this will 
lead to an increase in the level of support for social and economic development activities in Côte 
d’Ivoire, which in turn is expected to help improve a fragile security situation and ease tensions 
in the region.  Furthermore, it is also expected that access to new resources and debt relief, would 
help stimulate private sector investment in Côte d’Ivoire. 
 
4. Financing 
(US $m) 
Source: 0 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT US$150m 
 
IDA Grant                                                                                               Total 
  US$150m 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
In line with the arrangements under the first EGRG, the Ministry of Economy and Finance 
will be responsible for overall implementation of the proposed EGRG II.
 
Day-to-day 
monitoring and evaluation of the program will be the responsibility of the General Director of 
the Economy (DGE), the General Director of the Budget and Finance (DGBF), and the General 
Director of Planning (DGP).  This economic team will be placed under the supervision of the 
Cabinet Director of the Minister of Economy and Finance.  This arrangement was dictated by the 
strength and continuity of the economic team and the dialogue on policies carried out with them.  
The arrangement proved satisfactory under the first EGRG.   
 
6. Risks 
 
The proposed operation is of 
high risk.
 The four principal risks are: (i) 
political risk
 stemming 
from the fragility of the peace process, the upcoming presidential elections, delays in 
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, and possible
 
changes of ministerial staff after the 
presidential elections, particularly those directly involved in the reforms supported by the 
proposed grant;
 
(ii)
 governance risk, 
as vested interests and political intervention in the 
lucrative cocoa and energy sectors remain strong and could stall reforms; (iii) 
macroeconomic 
risk
,
if the government fails to adhere to a responsible medium-term macroeconomic framework 
(the expected three-year PRGF program) or exogenous shocks negatively affect its performance 
(notably weather, commodity prices and exchange rate volatility and dampened export demand 
and financial flows due to a possible deeper-than-expected global downturn caused by the 
financial crisis); and (iv) 
fiduciary risk
 arising from little progress by government to suppress 
Page  4
4
corruption or to make effective and efficient use of the fiscal space made available by budget 
support. 
While mitigation of the peace and security risk falls outside the scope of this operation, 
continued international support for the peace process, including through the ongoing IDA-
financed Post-Conflict Assistance Project (US$120 million), should help mitigate this risk.  To 
reduce the resistance to reform, there is close coordination with the IMF, the AfDB, the EC and 
other donors to ensure that top priority is given to the proposed reforms in discussions with 
Government; the close involvement of an inter-ministerial coordinating committee in the design 
of the operation has facilitated the buy-in of key governmental entities and will help ensure 
continuity and commitment. There is currently a broad-based constituency for reform of the cocoa 
sector, including external and domestic stakeholders, which has prompted Government to remove the 
leadership of the entities managing the sector and launch a process of substantive reform. Since 
August 2007, the Government has implemented the macroeconomic program supported by two 
IMF EPCAs and a three-year PRGF program is expected to be presented to the IMF Board in 
March 2009.  The Government is also expected to reach the HIPC decision point in March 2009. 
It is committed to a rapid attainment of the HIPC completion point and to adjust the 
macroeconomic program as needed to address exogenous shocks.  The fiduciary risk is mitigated 
through the focus on measures to improve public financial management, the recently completed 
PEMFAR and technical assistance and capacity building provided by IDA and other donors.  
Also, this risk is mitigated by the continued intensive attention of the international community on 
budget processes and frequent broad-based consultations with stakeholders, including civil 
society organizations, to strengthen the case for reforms and Government’s commitment to them.  
Communication efforts by Government in the above areas will be supported by the Governance 
and Institutional Development Grant to better inform the public and help build demand for 
transparency. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environmental Aspects 
 
The proposed EGRG II is expected to have a significant positive direct impact on poverty 
reduction
.
The EGRG II builds on the findings of the June 2006 World Bank report “Côte 
d’Ivoire – Contributions to the analysis of poverty”
2
that found poverty increasing in the face of 
a
continued decline in per capita income, and a recently completed Social Assessment.  There are 
likely positive distributional effects from the improved public financial management and key 
reforms in the cocoa, energy and financial sectors.  Specifically, efforts to improve the capacity 
of the State to implement its budget priorities and strengthen public financial management would 
enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability in public resource use, and increase the 
country’s absorption capacity for external resources. Strengthening governance and transparency 
in the cocoa sector and reducing quasi-fiscal levies are expected to improve the livelihood of a 
large sector of the population which relies on cocoa as a dominant source of earnings. Improving 
governance and transparency in the energy sector should strengthen Government revenues which 
could be used for increased expenditures for basic social services.  Reforming the financial 
sector would help re-launch SMEs, which have been severely affected by the crisis; 
strengthening microfinance institutions should benefit the poorer and more vulnerable part of the 
2
Report No. 36625-CI. 
Page  5
5
population.  The grant would also help fund the provision of basic public services with a 
beneficial impact on the poor. 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy grant are not likely to 
have significant negative impacts on the count
ry’s environment, forests and other natural 
resources.  
The reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen economic governance at the 
national government level.  However, the operation touches on two sectors, energy and cocoa, 
that have very significant associated environmental risks.   
A
Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA)
 is being launched with support from the 
ongoing Governance and Institutional Development Grant.  It will identify potential negative 
impacts of the energy sector, with particular emphasis on offshore petroleum developments, and 
determine their likely size and probability. It will also examine the institutional capacity to deal 
with such impacts, and propose regulatory, procedural and institutional improvements for the 
prevention and management of the potential social and environmental impact of petroleum 
operations.  Draft terms of reference for the SEA have been agreed upon with the Government.    
The Bank is also supporting the preparation of a Strategic Environmental Assessment of 
the cocoa sector
.
This is being prepared under the ongoing post
–conflict Country Environmental 
Analysis (CEA) and will analyze the impact of cocoa sector reforms being considered by the 
Government on forestry, biodiversity, and more broadly on land use. The assessment reviews the 
sector’s institutional and legislative framework for the management of its environmental impacts. 
Also, the forest cover analysis taking place under the CEA will provide the basis for assessing 
the impact of cocoa sector expansion/rehabilitation on the forest resource. In addition, the 
assessment examines the need for improvement of environmental impact assessment procedures 
for investments in processing factories.  It is expected that the findings of the assessment will be 
reflected in the Government’s cocoa sector strategy.  
 
8. Contact points 
 
Contact:  Richard A. Doffonsou (Co-TTL) 
Title:       Senior Economist, AFTP4 
Tel:          5 331 +3418 
Fax:         (225) 22 400 461 
Email: 
rdoffonsou@worldbank.org
Contact:  Philip English (Co-TTL) 
Title:       Lead Economist, AFTP4 
Tel:         (202) 473-6483 
Fax:         (202) 473-8136 
Email:     penglish@worldbank.org
 
