                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00001483




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-4730)

                                         ON A

                                       GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 96.4 MILLION
                           (US$150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D'IVOIRE

                                        FOR A

             SECOND ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT



                                     June 29, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCF2
Africa Region
                             Currency Equivalents
                             (As of March 9, 2010)

                  Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                          US$1 = CFAF 481

                                  Fiscal Year
                            January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AfDB    African Development Bank
AFD     Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
ANARE   Agence Nationale de Régulation de l'Electricité
ASTER   Application des Services du Trésor en Réseaux (Treasury Information System)
ARCC    Autorité de Régulation du Café et du Cacao (Coffee and Cocoa Regulatory Agency)
BCC     Bourse du Cacao et du Café (Cocoa and Coffee Exchange)
BCEAO   Central Bank of West African States
BNI     Banque Nationale d'Investissement (National Investment Bank)
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAF    Franc of the African Financial Community
CIE     Compagnie Ivoirienne d'Electricté (Ivorian Electricity Company)
CIF     Cost, Insurance, Freight
CNCE    Caisse Nationale des Caisses d'Epargne (National Savings Fund)
CNPS    Caisse Nationale de Prévoyance Sociale (National Social Protection Fund)
CNW     Central, Northern and Western Zones
CPIA    Country Performance Institutional Assessment
CPI     Consumer Price Index
CRCC    Reform Committee for the Cocoa-Coffee Sector
DAAF    Administrative and Financial Directors
DDR     Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
DMP     Direction des Marchés Publics (Public Procurement Directorate)
BFA     Banque de Financement de l'Agriculture (Agricultural Financing Bank)
DGBF    Direction Générale du Budget et de Finances (General Directorate of Budget and
        Finance)
DGCPT   Direction Générale de la Comptabilité Publique et du Trésor (General Directorate of
        Treasury and Public Accounting)
DGE     Direction Générale de l'Economie (General Directorate of Economy)
DGP     Direction Générale de la Planification (General Directorate of Planning)
DPO     Development Policy Operation
ECF     Extended Credit Facility (formerly IMF-PRGF - Poverty Reduction and Growth
        Facility)
EGRG    Economic Governance and Recovery Grant
EITI    Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EPCA    Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance
ERC     Economic Recovery Credit
FDPCC   Fonds de Développement et de Promotion des Activités des Producteurs du Café et du
        Cacao (Development Fund for the Promotion of Coffee and Cocoa Producers'
        Activities)
FIMR    Fonds d'Investissement en Milieu Rural (Rural Investment Funds)
FN      Forces Nouvelles (New Forces)
FRC     Fonds de Régulation et de Contrôle du Café et du Cacao (Fund for the Regulation and
        Control of Coffee and Cocoa)
GDP     Growth Domestic Product

                                         i
GIDG            Governance and Institutional Development Grant
HIPC            Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICRR            Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA             International Development Association
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IMF             International Monetary Fund
ISN             Interim Strategy Note
LDP             Letter of Development Policy
LICUS           Low-Income Country Under Stress
MDRI            Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative
MEF             Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MINAGRI         Ministère de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
NPV             Net Present Value
NSBD            National Standard Bidding Documents
OCHA            Office of Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCAP            Post-Conflict Assistance Project
PDO             Project Development Objective
PEFA            Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFAR          Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PETROCI         Société Nationale d'Opérations Pétrolières de la Côte d'Ivoire (National Company for
                Petroleum Operations in Côte d'Ivoire)
PFM             Public Financial Management
PRSC            Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRGF            Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP            Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAE             Quality at Entry
QSA             Quality at Supervision
SIGFAE          Système Informatisé de Gestion du Fichier des Agents de l'Etat (Civil Servant
                Personnel Management Information System)
SIGFIP          Système Intégré de Gestion Informatisée des Finances Publiques (Integrated Public
                Finance Management Information System)
SIGMAP          Système Intégré de Gestion des Marchés Publics
                (Integrated System for the Management of Public Procurement)
SIR             Société Ivoirienne de Raffinage (Ivoirian Refining Company)
SODECI          Société de Distribution d'Eau de la Côte d'Ivoire (Water Distribution Company of Côte
                d'Ivoire)
SOGEPE          Société de Gestion du Patrimoine du Secteur de l'Électricité (Electricity Sector Asset
                Management Company)
SOPIESSA        Société d'Opération Ivoirienne d'Électricité (Ivoirian Electricity Operations Company)
SME             Small and Medium Enterprises
SSA             Sub-Saharan Africa
TA              Technical Assistance
TTL             Task Team Leader
TF              Trust Fund
VAT             Value-added Tax
WAEMU           West African Economic and Monetary Union




                 Vice President:    Obiageli K. Ezekwesili (AFRVP)
               Country Director:    Madani M. Tall (AFCF2)
                Sector Director:    Sudhir Shetty (AFTPM)
         Acting Sector Manager:     Philip English (AFTP4)
             Task Team Leader:      Richard A. Doffonsou (AFTP4)



                                                 ii
                                 CÔTE D'IVOIRE
                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULT REPORT ON
              THE SECOND ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE AND RECOVERY GRANT

                                                              CONTENTS




  Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design..........................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................................6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................................25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................................25
6. Lessons Learned.....................................................................................................................26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................27

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes...........................28
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................29
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................35
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................36
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................37
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................38
Country Map




                                                                      iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Cote d'Ivoire:
                                                                             Economic Governance
Country:                Cote d'Ivoire              Program Name:
                                                                             & Recovery Grant
                                                                             (EGRG) II
Program ID:             P112368                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H4730
ICR Date:               06/30/2010                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                        Borrower:
                                                                             COTE D'IVOIRE
Original Total
                        XDR 96.4M                  Disbursed Amount:         XDR 96.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 96.4M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process              Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/07/2008        Effectiveness:             04/20/2009         04/20/2009
Appraisal:            01/26/2009        Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/31/2009        Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                   12/31/2009         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Substantial
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                            Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                            Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                   i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               10                  10
Central government administration                                     40                  40
Crops                                                                 30                  30
Mining and other extractive                                           10                  10
Power                                                                 10                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             26                  26
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  10                  10
Other public sector governance                                        32                  32
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      22                  22
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                                     10                  10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Madani M. Tall                       Madani M. Tall
Sector Manager:            E. Philip English                    Antonella Bassani
Program Team Leader:       Richard Antonin Doffonsou            E. Philip English
ICR Team Leader:           Richard Antonin Doffonsou
ICR Primary Author:        Michael J. Wilson




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The key objective of the EGRG II is to continue to assist Côte d'Ivoire in its post-conflict
economic and social recovery, promote growth, commit the government to deepen
reforms in the key economic sector and increase pro-poor spending in order to achieve
sustainable reductions in poverty. Specifically, the EGRG II supports government-owned
reforms to improve governance, transparency, and efficiency in pubic expenditure
management and control; and (ii) helps enhance governance and efficiency in the energy,
cocoa, and financial sectors.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target   Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval        Target       Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years
                   Rate of transposition of WAEMU guidelines and international standards in the
Indicator 1 :
                   national procurement regulatory framework increased
Value
                                            100 percent in
(quantitative or   80 percent in 2008
                                            2009
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   MEF website operational and the rating of PEFA indicators on access of the
Indicator 2 :
                   public to the principal budget information improved
Value
                   PEFA indicator : C in
(quantitative or                            PEFA indicator : B
                   2007
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Extension of SIGFIP to the remaining 10 departments
Value
                                            59 departments in
(quantitative or   49 departments in 2008
                                            2009
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                                iii
Indicator 4 :      Draft annual EITI report for 2006 completed
Value                                      Reports for 2006
                   No reports initiated in
(quantitative or                           and 2007
                   2008
Qualitative)                               completed
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Operating costs of the four cocoa entities reduced
Value
                                            CFAF 16 billion
(quantitative or   CFAF 23 billion (2008)
                                            (2009)
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2008               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Quarterly reports on investments in the cocoa sector continued to be made
Indicator 6 :
                   public
                                           Reports issued for
Value              Reports issued for the
                                           all quarters of
(quantitative or   first three quarters of
                                           2008 and three
Qualitative)       2008
                                           quarters of 2009
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Roadmap for the elaboration of the new strategy for the cocoa sector reform is
Indicator 7 :
                   in place
                                           Roadmap is in
Value
                   Letter of sector policy place and progress
(quantitative or
                   adopted                 being made on its
Qualitative)
                                           implementation
Date achieved      12/31/2008              12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Decrease in the ratio of insider lending (loans to shareholders, management,
Indicator 8 :
                   employees) to the net worth of BNI
Value
(quantitative or   315 percent              250 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2008               12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      No intermediate indicators were set.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1      06/22/2009        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  143.88
  2      12/11/2009    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           143.88


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The program development objective (PDO) of the Second Economic Governance and Recovery
Grant (EGRG II) was to support government-owned reforms to improve governance,
transparency and efficiency in public expenditure management and in key sectors of the
economy: energy, cocoa, and the financial sector. The grant was an integral part of IDA's
Interim Strategy Note for Côte d'Ivoire for the period FY08-FY09, directly supporting its third
pillar, government-owned reforms for economic recovery. This operation was launched at a time
when the Bank sought to not only support an important reform program in Côte d'Ivoire but also
mitigate the impact of the global economic slowdown and financial crisis, coming close on the
heels of a sharp increase in the world price for food and oil. Consequently, budget support
included frontloaded resources from the IDA envelope. The grant helped government take major
steps in sector reform, notably making significant tax reforms in the cocoa sector in an effort to
reduce poverty for farm families. In addition, the grant helped Government implement a domestic
arrears clearance plan, signed with the private sector under the IMF Extended Credit Facility
(ECF, formerly PRGF, the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility).
Deepening sector reforms is essential if Government is to employ public resources effectively and
advance economic and social recovery. These reforms are the bedrock of the comprehensive
medium-term reform program detailed in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
adopted in February 2009. EGRG II provided financial support to the Government whose annual
debt service remains considerable until attainment of the HIPC completion point. The grant was
closely coordinated with assistance provided to the Government through the ongoing Governance
and Institutional Development Grant (US$13 million), the IMF Emergency Post Conflict
Assistance Program (EPCA) and the three-year ECF program. The EGRG II sustains and deepens
the reforms promoted by the first EGRG (US$297 million) which facilitated the clearance of
Government arrears to the IBRD and IDA, paving the way for the normalization of relations and
the return of other lenders.
Côte d'Ivoire, a medium-size country with a population estimated at 20 million, is the largest
economy in West Africa after Nigeria, accounting for 40 percent of WAEMU GDP, with a key
role in transit trade for landlocked neighboring countries. Its merchandise exports are the fourth
largest in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), after South Africa, Nigeria and Angola. It has a relatively
diversified agricultural economy as well as significant manufacturing and services sectors. Côte
d'Ivoire is the largest exporter of cocoa and raw cashew nuts in the world and depends heavily on
immigrant workers whose remittances are an important revenue for countries in the region.
However, their increasing and more permanent presence created tensions ­ a factor in the 2002-
2003 civil war and the stalemate which lasted until a 2007 peace accord. This period of conflict
and instability damaged the economy and hampered social development. Growth was weak, and
the poverty rate rose from 38.4 percent in 2002 to an estimated 48.9 percent in 2008, with rural
poverty estimated at 63 percent, rising to 85 percent in some parts of the Center North West
(CNW) area. The contribution of agriculture to GDP increased, reflecting a decline in the
manufacturing and services sectors. Côte d'Ivoire is now ranked 166th out of 179 countries
according to the 2008 UNDP Human Development Index. Health and education indicators have
suffered from the political crisis. The mortality rate for infants under five remains high but has
slightly improved from 151 in 1990 to 127 in 2008. Gross enrollment in primary school is
estimated at 77 percent and the completion rate is just above the pre-crisis level of 74 percent.



                                                1
The division of the country led to a worsening economy and to the breakdown in basic services in
the area outside Government control. The partition also disrupted domestic and regional trade,
weakening Côte d'Ivoire's role as a regional hub. Annual export volume growth fell during
2000­06 to 3.4 percent (versus 8.7 percent 1994­99). However, the current account remained
positive due to enhanced oil exports at favorable prices (1.4 percent of GDP) in the period.
Revenues fell while spending rose to address the crisis, especially in the areas of defense and
discretionary spending. Despite continuing efforts to control cash management, Côte d'Ivoire
could not meet most key WAEMU fiscal criteria, notably the basic fiscal balance; wages and
salaries as a percentage of fiscal revenue; and the change in domestic and external arrears and
total debt as a percentage to GDP. Average real GDP growth turned negative (-0.4 percent), as
compared with strong growth in the WAEMU region (4.1 percent) and for Sub-Saharan Africa
(4.9 percent). With the eruption of conflict, the IMF-supported PRGF program went off­track and
other external financing dried up, with significant arrears towards key bilateral and multilateral
donors.2 Public and private investment dropped to 10.3 percent, down from 12.9 percent of GDP
in 1994-99, again far below the 20.3 percent achieved by WAEMU and the 18.5 percent in SSA.
Conflict and instability led to a serious deterioration of governance and transparency. As a result
of frequent personnel changes and the intense daily security and economic pressures weighing on
civil servants, government services suffered. The budget cycle was disrupted, with approval as
late as mid-year, and public financial management processes and procedures suffered. An
increasing share of public expenditures (over 50 percent in 2006) was executed outside regular
budget procedures using ad hoc discretionary advances while weak governance prevented the full
revenue potential of the oil and gas sub-sectors being met. In the cocoa and coffee sectors, quasi-
fiscal levies impacted negatively on producers' income without accountability of the cocoa
regulatory agencies as to their use. Government procurement practices regarding major
public/private sector contracts failed to respect WAEMU and international norms, as did the
management of oil and gas profit-sharing agreements. Finally, pressures to meet both wage
demands and increased and unplanned defense expenditures meant that spending to promote
longer term economic growth and social development were sacrificed.
On March 7, 2007, the two parties to the conflict reached a power sharing agreement (the
Ouagadougou Accord). The Accord won the support of the international community, setting out a
roadmap for Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration (DDR) of protagonists and
reunification, founded on new elections. A new transition government selected a Minister of
Economy and Finance regarded as neutral and supported by all parties and entrusted him with the
design and implementation of a reform program. A first tangible result was the signing of an
EPCA program with the IMF, aimed at restoring fiscal and debt sustainability. The economy
began to respond to this more stable environment, but Government recognized that urgent
measures to restore the management of public finances and governance and transparency in the
energy, cocoa and financial sectors were critical to the peace process and economic recovery.
Arrears clearance was also seen as indispensable for normalizing relations with the development
partners, leading to their renewed support.
Côte d'Ivoire's political situation remains to be normalized after 5 years of delays in organizing
elections and difficulties in finalizing electoral list for the presidential election. Nevertheless, the
country has made progress in the administrative reunification of the country through
redeployment of government agencies and staff to the CNW, a key step toward the restoration of

2
  Côte d'Ivoire was seriously debt-stressed. By 2007, public debt, including arrears, at end 2007 was
estimated at US$14.3 billion, or 72.1 percent of GDP. Of this amount, 27.8 percent was owed to
multilateral creditors, 52.2 percent to Paris Club creditors and 21.5 percent to commercial creditors. Arrears
on Côte d'Ivoire's total external debt at end-December 2007 amounted to US$5.2 billion. There were also
significant domestic arrears at end-2007 representing 3.5 percent of GDP.

                                                      2
basic services. However, the disarmament of former combatants has been slow and their
economic and social re-integration is problematic, notably with regard to employment.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved).
The key objective of the EGRG II is to continue to assist Côte d'Ivoire in its post-conflict
economic and social recovery, promote growth, commit the government to deepen reforms in the
key economic sector and increase pro-poor spending in order to achieve sustainable reductions in
poverty. Specifically, the EGRG II supports government-owned reforms to improve governance,
transparency, and efficiency in public expenditure management and control; and (ii) helps
enhance governance and efficiency in the energy, cocoa, and financial sectors.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

Following the Bank's support for clearance of arrears and reengagement in 2008, there was a
need to move quickly to capitalize on the momentum for recovery and reform afforded by arrears
clearance­the bulk of the proceeds of the first EGRG­by providing budget support to permit
Government to continue to address the post-conflict needs, notably to restore the government's
presence in the CNW, and to resume basic services (many children had never attended school
during the six year disruption of services due to the division of the country) and the social and
economic re-integration of former combatants. A sound track record on the implementation of the
IMF-EPCA program and the likely initiation of a PRGF argued for strong support of the overall
reform program which enjoyed cross-party support, but remained fragile, given existing political
tensions.

Moreover, a promising start had been made with reforms supported by the EGRG I in the area of
public finance management and on the key economic sectors (energy, cocoa, the financial sector)
critical to recovery and growth. EGRG II would maintain the momentum of reform while
deepening it. Enhanced governance and transparency in the energy sector, notably through
adherence to the EITI and through the rationalization of operations and infrastructure
rehabilitation in the electricity sub-sector, was intended to attract competitive international private
investment and stimulate local business activity through improved access to more reliable service.

The Bank also sought to support reforms in the cocoa sector to strengthen export performance by
stimulating the participation and output of producers through the reduction of onerous taxes and
charges while paving the way for longer term growth through the development of a sector
strategy addressing key issues such as the renewal of tree plantations and enhanced productivity.
Measures to improve public finance management would enable Government to allocate resources
more efficiently, with better targeting of the poor and the vulnerable while proposed measures in
the cocoa sector would impact directly on poverty reduction by improving the living standards of
cocoa producers and their families (making up 28 percent of the country's poor). Revitalizing the
micro-finance sector also offered the potential to reduce poverty, by diversifying rural
development and the urban informal sector while contributing to the economic empowerment of
women.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

Not applicable.




                                                  3
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

1.4.1 Strengthening Governance, Transparency and Management in Public Finance
The Government's reform program is based on the public finance management (PFM) action plan
adopted in 2008 following the completion of the Public Expenditure Management and Financial
Accountability Review (PEMFAR), initiated in 2007 and finalized in 2008. The PEMFAR,
carried out jointly by the Bank, the IMF, the African Development Bank (AfDB), and the
European Commission (EC), identified critical reforms required to bring PFM and procurement
in line with WAEMU standards and international norms.
As an entry point to start implementing the PFM action plan, the EGRG II focused on four policy
actions critical to deepening the PFM reform and aimed at ensuring the normal budget cycle,
strengthening audit and control functions, and enhancing transparency and efficiency of public
procurement. In that sense, the Government took steps to approve by presidential ordinance no
later than December 31, 2007 a budget for the year 2008 and making it public as required by the
WAEMU guidelines. It has limited the use of treasury advances as committed and has submitted
the draft budget execution reports (Lois de Règlements) for the fiscal years 2005 and 2006 to the
Office of the General Auditor (Chambre des Comptes). A time-bound road map was also adopted
paving the way for the separation of policy functions from execution and control ones in public
procurement in line with regional standards. In addition to these actions, the Government rolled
out to additional departments the computerized integrated public management system (SIGFIP),
bringing the total to 49 (from 37 in 2008). In terms of enhanced revenue collection, the
Government moved to improve tax and customs administration, including better management of
oil and gas revenues, the limiting of tax exemptions and ensuring all public entities maintain their
social security contributions.

1.4.2 Strengthening Governance, Transparency and Management in Key Economic Sectors

The Energy Sector
In order to enhance governance and transparency and the efficiency of operations Government
commissioned three audits (2007), financed by IDA: (i) oil and gas exploration, development and
production; (ii) oil refining by the Ivoirian Refining Company (SIR,Société Ivoirienne de
Raffinage); and (iii) electricity. The first audit was completed in late 2007, after a workshop to
review its findings. Key recommendations were: to improve the effectiveness and transparency of
the Government's management of the upstream hydrocarbon sector and increase the level of
revenues and other benefits derived from the exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon resources.
The second audit (completed in September 2008) found SIR to be well-run, one of the best
refineries in Africa. The audit made recommendations on how SIR could maintain its
competitive advantage and improve its management, its technical and operational efficiency and
staff development. The third audit proposed streamlining the number of agencies involved in the
electricity sector and strengthening regulation and transparency. These audits laid the ground
work for strengthening the efficiency and management of the sector and improving the
transparency of production and financial operations.

An important step in this direction was the creation of the "Oil Committee", reporting to the
Ministry of Mines and Energy and to the MEF, which monitors production, revenues and their
allocation on a quarterly basis, with reports shared with IDA and the IMF. In addition, the
Government took steps to adhere to the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI).
In accordance with EITI membership procedures, a national committee was established and an



                                                 4
action plan prepared, with the goal of publishing the first two EITI reports in 2009 and achieving
full EITI membership in 2010.

In the area of electricity, Government plans to streamline the public entities, by: (i) clarifying
their roles and responsibilities and reducing their operating costs; (ii) consolidating their assets
under one holding company, the Electricity Sector Asset Management Company (SOGEPE,
Société de Gestion du Patrimoine du Secteur de l'Électricité); (iii) strengthening regulation by
changing the role and status of the National Electricity Regulatory Agency (ANARE, Agence
Nationale de Régulation de l'Electricité), giving it more autonomy and authority; (iv) improving
financial modeling and tariff adjustment procedures; (v) extending rural electrification to
accelerate access to energy;and (vi) establishing a new financing entity to manage concessional
funds and carbon credits. A letter of sector policy was adopted in February 2009. IDA plans to
assist in the implementation of these policies through a US$50 million rehabilitation project,
upgrading, expanding and restructuring the distribution network in Abidjan and other urban areas
on an urgent basis to reduce losses and to provide greater access to supply.

The Cocoa Sector
Côte d'Ivoire is the world's largest cocoa producer, with about 40 percent of total world
production; cocoa accounts for one quarter of its exports and roughly 17 percent of public
revenues. Approximately 700,000 small holder families (about 4 million people) depend on the
sector for their main source of income. Following the demise of the Stabilization Board, a number
of entities were established to manage the sector. Lacking clarity of mission, mismanaged and
corrupt, these agencies extracted significant rents from the sector, at the same time imposing
taxes and levies on producers rising as high as to 35-40 percent of the CIF price, significantly
reducing their share of revenues and undermining their willingness to participate in production.
The entities failed to provide a complete account of their capital expenditures. About half of the
investments were diverted to acquiring companies often unrelated to the sector, and usually loss-
making, while substantial amounts were also diverted to the Government for security related
expenditures. At the same time, production was negatively impacted by insecurity and the forced
displacement of labor due to land and ethnic disputes, by widespread extortion at roadblocks on
main transport routes, and by smuggling of beans into Ghana in the face of high taxes and levies.
As a result of these anomalies, about 60 percent of cocoa growers now live below the poverty line
according to the PRSP (2009), accounting for 28 percent of the poor nation-wide. Government
consequently, sought reduced financial leakages and increased producers' income by re-
organizing the state entities and making them more accountable.

Poverty reduction through reduced levies and taxes was a key objective of EGRG II, as part of the
broader program of reform spelled out in the Government's letter of sector policy adopted in
2009. Government agreed to reduce total indirect taxation of the cocoa sector to no more than 22
percent of the CIF price, by the time of the HIPC Completion Point. This proposal was based on
an analysis of recent studies by the World Bank and the EC and was designed to bring the country
closer to the practice in other major cocoa exporting countries. The implementation of the reform
program was also supported by the IDA-financed GIDG and by the EC. Fortunately, this adverse
institutional environment has so far been mitigated by favorable prices on the international
market. International prices are projected to remain high over the medium term. However, longer
term prospects are worrisome - yields are low due to poor maintenance of plantations and the
steady deterioration in the quality of beans.




                                                 5
The Financial Sector
Banking activities in the Center, North and West (CNW) ceased after the crisis began. Banks
with heavy exposure to small and medium-sized enterprises and weak sectors, such as transport,
were the hardest hit. Credit risk increased as compliance with prudential norms worsened. By
end-2006, half the banks were unable to respect the capital adequacy ratio, six banks failed to
respect the minimum liquidity ratio while another five had negative equity. At appraisal, other
"negatives" included: over-dependence of the National Investment Bank (BNI, Banque Nationale
d'Investissements) on significant payments from the State for its liquidity and a lack of clear
lending objectives; a micro-finance sector with negative worth; and heavily overdrawn pension
schemes, with high deficits both on a cash and actuarial basis. The situation was further
complicated by the inability of the legal system to enforce contracts and debt recovery.

The main thrust of the Government's financial sector reform program was todevelop, with
support from IDA and the IMF, a short and-medium term action plan for sector reform. In the
short term, the focus is in financial stabilization, including bank and microfinance restructuring;
and in the medium term, deepening the reform to improve access to financial services (for small
and medium sized enterprises, rural zones, long-term resources) and to implement supply side
measures (new instruments, institutions, mechanisms) and demand side measures (improvement
in the transparency of the companies, including through reliable financial statements). An in-
depth restructuring of the microfinance sector is to be implemented on the basis of the national
microfinance sector strategy, approved by the Cabinet. The microfinance network serves more
than one million customers, more than the formal banking sector. Particular attention will be
given to the principal entity, the National Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives,
(UNACOOPEC, Union Nationale des Coopératives d'Epargne et de Crédit), to bring its net
worth back into positive territory through intensive loan recovery. The recapitalization of
UNACOOPEC is of critical importance, given its overwhelming weight in the sector and the
crucial role of micro-finance in poverty reduction and growth. Finally, new measures target the
Government employee pension fund to contain the growth of its structural deficit, some 0.5
percent of GDP in 2007.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas

Not applicable.

1.6 Other significant changes

Not applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

The Grant is an integral part of IDA's Interim Strategy Note for Côte d'Ivoire for the period
FY08-FY09 as it directly supports its third pillar, related to government-owned reforms for
economic recovery. Addressing government reforms through this pillar was essential to the
Government's ability to use public resources effectively to support the country's economic and
social recovery.



                                                6
The ten prior actions retained under the EGRG II reflected the priorities of the Government's
reform agenda and the Bank's ISN and was the first step towards a more comprehensive medium-
term program of reforms that the Government subsequently developed in its PRSP adopted in
February 2009. The prior actions, the rationale for their selection and their status are shown in
Table 1 below.
Macroeconomic Performance: A PRGF arrangement was approved by the IMF Board just before
the EGRG II was approved by IDA. The first review was successfully completed in December
2009. Progress was made in fiscal consolidation, governance, and structural reform in the key
sectors, although the last Article IV Consultation (November 2009) recommended that more be
done to encourage private sector activity. Côte d'Ivoire has benefited from significant debt relief,
and the authorities aim to reduce the debt stock to sustainable level at the HIPC completion point
expected in the first quarter of 2011.
Fortunately, the global crisis is having only a modest impact on Côte d'Ivoire as the economy
continues to recover. Favorable terms of trade since 2007 continue to support the recovery of real
GDP growth. Growth accelerated to 3.8 percent in 2009, increasing per capita income for the first
time since 1998. Growth reflects the effect of good rains on agriculture and agro-processing as
well as strong mining, refining, and chemical industry activity. However, investment holds at
about 10 percent of GDP, too low to meet the needs of a growing economy.
With food and fuel prices moderating, inflation has fallen to about 1 percent by end-2009, down
from almost 6 percent in 2008. The external current account improved in 2008-09 owing to strong
cocoa exports and favorable terms of trade. After recording a small deficit in 2007 (-0.7 percent)
the current account moved into a significant surplus of 7.3 percent of GDP in 2009, aided by a 30
percent increase in cocoa export prices. However, given continuing political uncertainty and weak
confidence, increased private capital outflows are likely as foreign companies repatriate profits
rather than invest locally and domestic exporters only partially repatriate their profits.
The macroeconomic outlook is based on a steady post-conflict recovery. Real GDP growth is
projected to fall to 3.0 percent in 2010 down from 3.8 percent in 2009 due to power shortages in
the first half of the year. It is expected to rebound to 4.8 percent in average over the period 2011-
14, as the global economic crisis ends, the political environment improves, and productivity and
investment return to their pre-crisis growth path. Inflation should continue at the low WAEMU
norm. In the medium term, Côte d'Ivoire's economy should strengthen as confidence returns and
structural reforms are undertaken. Nonetheless, significant risks remain as Côte d'Ivoire's exports
continue to be dominated by commodities - cocoa/coffee (44 percent of exports), oil and oil
products (16 percent), and timber, lumber, and cotton (15 percent), whose prices are volatile.
The growth of the wage bill, representing 43-45 percent of tax revenues (about 6.8 percent of
GDP), is well above the WAEMU convergence criteria (35 percent) and poses a potential threat
to macroeconomic stability in the medium term. The Government has taken steps to get better
control, establishing an inter-ministerial committee to create an integrated personnel data base,
linked to SIGFIP and the Treasury, which will enable the Government to remove ghost workers
and better manage the wage bill.
Structural deficiencies and a poor business environment continue to limit competitiveness. The
Bank's "Doing Business" indicators rank Côte d'Ivoire among the least competitive countries--
below the sub-Saharan African average and most other WAEMU countries: financial
intermediation is low, with credit to the private sector amounting to only 13 percent of GDP (the
SSA average is 36 percent); and annual foreign direct investment is only 2 percent of GDP.
The Government has generally demonstrated a broadly satisfactory track record in maintaining
prudent macroeconomic policies that are sustainable over the medium term. However, this


                                                 7
framework is subject to significant domestic risks (political risk and social unrest) as well as
external shocks. Under a scenario of a worsened political situation, GDP growth could decline to
a modest 1-2 percent per year, driven mainly by oil production, with per capita income falling.
This could result from further delays in the election process, creating frustration on the part of
voters, and a fall in investment, as the private sector loses confidence and public resources are
squeezed. The political maneuvers surrounding the elections may complicate the process of
developing a consensus around reforms. After elections are held, the results could be contested by
the losing parties and some of the key reformers in Government could be replaced.
The international economic environment poses other significant risks. While the strong cocoa
and oil prices have helped mitigate the impact of the global crisis on the country's economic
recovery, cocoa prices are likely to fall. Private investment has been constrained in part by the
global slowdown, and transit trade to neighboring land-locked countries has also slowed. The
country's incipient recovery remains vulnerable to terms of trade or other exogenous shocks.
Any drop in oil and cocoa prices would reduce government revenue and the fiscal space for
reconstruction spending.

   Côte D'Ivoire: Selected macroeconomic Indicators         2006        2007       2008      2009
   Real GDP growth (%)                                        0.7        1.6         2.3       3.8
   Inflation CPI (%, yearly average)                          2.5        1.9         6.3       1.0
   Primary basic balance                                      0.3        0.6         0.3       0.4
   External current account balance (as % of GDP)             2.8       -0.7         2.4       7.3
   Real GDP per capita growth                                -2.3       -1.4        -0.7       0.8

External Debt: Côte d'Ivoire reached HIPC decision point in March 2009. Bilateral and
commercial debt and rescheduling is well advanced and the country is making good progress
towards meeting the HIPC completion point in 2011. On reaching the HIPC completion point,
Côte d'Ivoire will qualify for relief under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI), which is
estimated to reduce debt service on debt to IDA, the IMF, and the African Development Fund by
just over US$2 billion (in nominal terms), as well as additional debt relief from bilateral creditors.
Nonetheless, Côte d'Ivoire is at high risk of debt distress, according to the latest Debt
Sustainability Analysis conducted for the HIPC Decision Point document, and the medium-term
fiscal challenges remain large. External debt service is projected to rise in 2009-11 to an average
of 3.6 percent of GDP, in order to stay current on outstanding obligations. Support from
multilateral agencies will help meet the financing gap but the authorities will need to maintain a
fiscal surplus and higher economic growth if they are to remain current on external and domestic
debt service. This challenge will remain in the years immediately following the HIPC Completion
Point, as minimal repayments of rescheduled bilateral and commercial debt will need to resume.
In order to strengthen the authorities' capacity to manage their debt, a Debt Management
Performance Assessment was conducted by the Bank in June 2009. It found that Côte d'Ivoire
generally met normal requirements for debt management, exceeding them in some cases.
However, it was recommended that an overall debt strategy be developed, based on a rigorous
analysis of risks and costs.
Domestic Debt: The authorities have adopted and begun to implement a domestic arrears
clearance plan for 2009-11 to bring down the stock of "amounts payable" (2.7 percent of GDP at
end-2008, 1.9 percent at end-2009). Most of the first tranche of the ECF (formerly PRGF
(US$120 million)) as well as proceeds from EGRG II were used to settle domestic arrears on the
basis of agreed criteria: priority to small claims, then on the basis of maturity, with consultation


                                                    8
of the creditors and monthly publication of claims settled. The plan is expected to boost private
sector confidence.
Public Finance Management: Good progress has been made in bringing the national PFM in
line with the legal and institutional framework of the PFM system adopted in 2009 by the
WAEMU Council of Ministers. Budgets are now routinely prepared and reviewed ahead of the
budget year and the recourse to ad hoc treasury advances is tightly controlled, with adherence to
standard budget execution procedures for all large contracts, and a module for monitoring such
expenditures has been integrated into SIGFIP. In addition the authorities have: (i) rolled out
SIGFIP to 59 departments (up from 49 in 2008) and submitted the budget execution law for 2008
to the Office of the General Auditor (Chambre des Comptes). In terms of budget allocation, pro-
poor spending in education, health and agriculture increased by 9.8 percent, 20.4 percent, and
43.9 percent respectively over 2008-09. Pro-poor spending has grown from 5.9 percent of GDP in
2007 and 6.9 percent in 2008 to 7.7 percent in 2009. Much of this increase has taken place in the
education sector whose share has grown from 3.6 percent of GDP to 4.9 percent over the three
year period. Pro-poor spending is planned to rise from 34 percent of the national budget in 2009
to 37.7 in 2010. With regard to the institutional and operational framework for procurement, a
new procurement code was adopted in mid-2009, with the establishment of a National Public
Procurement Regulation Authority. Reports on bid openings and evaluations are regularly
published on the Public Procurement website (www.dmp.finances.gouv.ci).
Extra-budgetary spending on the transfer of the capital and other large public works threatened
the agreed macro framework in 2008 and delayed the appraisal of EGRGII by several months.
However, the authorities implemented corrective measures, including tax measures and
expenditure cuts, and agreed to limit spending on large public works in 2009 to one-half the level
incurred in 2008, in order to favor pro-poor spending consistent with the PRSP and HIPC debt
relief. The ECF adopted in March 2009 includes a continuous performance criterion requiring
zero extra-budgetary spending. Performance on these measures was considered to be on track
after the first IMF ECF review in September 2009, and preliminary results from the second
review are also encouraging. The authorities also agreed to convert the arrangements for these
public works into formal contracts consistent with national policy and to apply proper
procurement regulations to all future work.

Progress in Sector Reforms

Energy sector: Quarterly reports on physical and financial flows are now communicated to the
Council of Ministers on a regular basis. An automatic pricing mechanism for petroleum products
was adopted in February 2009, implemented in April, and fine-tuned by the end 2009. One effect
has been less price protection (3 percent) for the refinery (which has been performing well
operationally), leading to lower margins, given the price of crude on the world market. A
committee to monitor liftings was established which provides quarterly reports on volumes and
shipment destinations. Due to rising fuel costs (aggravated by an unfavorable contract with a
local gas operator), greater reliance on thermal power, limited power tariff adjustments, technical
losses, fraud and difficulties in billing in the CNW zones (areas formerly held by the Forces
Nouvelles), the electricity subsector suffered significant financial losses in 2008-2009, amounting
to CFAF 63 billion in 2008 and an estimated CFAF 47 billion (0.4 percent of GDP) in 2009. The
Government introduced an average tariff increase of 10 percent in early 2009 to improve the
sector's financial position. In addition, a strategy was developed for the sub-sector and a new
tariff study launched. Finally, negotiations are underway with a private investor to explore ways
to lower generating costs. However, in 2010 the deficit is expected to rise as the lack of
maintenance has led to equipment failures and expensive corrective action. Côte d'Ivoire began
the process of membership in the EITI in 2008 under the first EGRG. The National Committee is

                                                9
established and fully operational and the requisite annual reports are being produced on a regular
basis.


Cocoa sector: The level of quasi-fiscal charges on producers has been reduced, with quarterly
reporting to the Council of Minister, and greater transparency in their utilization by the Rural
Investment Fund (FIMR, Fonds d'Investissement en Milieu Rural), including schools and water
supply, has been achieved. The Cocoa Management Committee set up in 2008 has improved
allocation and targeting of financial resources and launched programs to reduce disease and
improve tree stock. Government continues to work toward improving the living standard of
cocoa producers by reducing taxes and charges. In October 2009 the export duty was lowered
from 220 CFAF/kg to 210 CFAF/kg, and the registration duty fell from 10 percent to 5 percent
while quasi-fiscal levies were lowered from 31.26 CFAF/kg to 26.26 CFAF/kg. The Reform
Committee for the Cocoa-Coffee Sector (CRCC), created early 2009, submitted its report in
October 2009 outlining the views and recommendations of stakeholders on the future sector
strategy. Based on comments received from the Presidency, IDA, the EC and other key partners,
a second round of consultation was initiated in February 2010, with a final report expected in
June 2010. However, further consultation and revision may be necessary to ensure broad
consensus on the appropriate way forward.


Financial sector: Government adopted the recommendations of the Financial Sector Assessment
Program (FSAP) conducted in May 2009. A committee has been established to monitor
implementation of the sector reform. The law pertaining to combating the financing of terrorism
in the WAMU region was incorporated into the 2005 law on money laundering and the financing
of terrorism by a new ordinance (November 2009). The National Financial Information
Processing Unit (CENTIF) is tasked with monitoring this legislation. The conclusions of the
financial and operational audit of the BNI and the action plan for restructuring were adopted by
its Board of Directors. With approval of the Banking Commission (September 2009), the
National Savings Bank (CNCE) was granted bank status in December 2009. CNCE began
banking activity in the second quarter of 2010.


Banks in distress received special attention in 2009. The Versus Bank restructuring plan was
adopted by the Banking Commission, while the plan for the Agriculture Finance Bank (BFA,
Banque de Financement de la Agriculture) is being reviewed with a view to its adoption. Both
plans provide for the transfer of bad debt to the State at a loss, with repayment through loan
recovery and re-capitalization by the state. In line with the new microfinance strategy, savings
and loan associations and cooperatives must be dues-paying members of the Inter-professional
Association of Decentralized Financial Systems of Côte d'Ivoire. Other new provisions include:
non-mutual entities must get approval of the Association's Board of Directors for loans to
employees, with limits on loan size; and limitation of the period of service of savings and loans
executives. With regard to social security, the Social Security Code will be amended, with the
goal of restoring sustainability through a new pension plan, based in part on the extension of the
retirement age from 55 to 60. The plan was submitted to the Council of Ministers. Draft
legislation to reduce fund deficits will be presented to Parliament in 2010.




                                               10
Table 1: EGRG II Prior Actions, Rationale and Implementation Status at time of ICRR
        EGRG II Prior Action                            Rationale                             Status
I. Improving Governance, Transparency and Efficiency in Public Expenditure Management
1. A budget for 2008 has been approved     Giving the public better information     Implemented. The
by presidential ordinance no later than    on government spending proposals         Presidential ordinance
December 31, 2007. The Cabinet's           was an important element in              was approved in
communication on the budget has been       strengthening political and social       December 2007 and the
made public in the Official Gazette and    support for the transitional             Cabinet's communication
the major daily newspaper.                 government. It was also important to     on the budget was
                                           return to the normal budget calendar.    published in the Official
                                                                                    Gazette and the
                                                                                    Fraternité Matin.
2. The Ministry of Economy and             Given the prevalence of ad hoc,          Implemented. The
Finance has submitted the draft budget     unregulated expenditures in response     budget execution bill for
execution bills (Lois de Règlements) for   to security and social crises during     2005 was submitted to
fiscal years 2005 and 2006 to the          the period of conflict, returning to a   the Chamber of Accounts
Chamber of Accounts.                       regime of regular ex post scrutiny of    (The Office of the
                                           expenditures was also important for      General auditor) in July
                                           building public confidence.              2008, and the one for
                                                                                    2006 submitted in
                                                                                    September 2008.
3. Less than 15 percent of current         An essential step for restraining and    Implemented. Advances
cumulative expenses excluding wages        regulating public expenditure.           had been limited to 13.6
and salaries, debt servicing, and                                                   percent of current,
expenditures financed through the                                                   cumulative expenditures
revolving fund cash account mechanism                                               by the end of 2008
("régies d'avances") and from external
resources are executed through treasury
advances, for the year 2008.
4. The Ministry of Economy and            The crisis environment and frequent       Implemented. The
Finance has adopted a time-bound road     personnel changes during the              roadmap was adopted in
map aiming at separating policy           conflict had led to the blurring of       December 2008 and a
functions from execution and control in   responsibilities, with a negative         draft decree has been
public procurement.                       impact on the quality and timeliness      prepared.
                                          of decision-making and to reduce
                                          corruption.
IIA. Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in the Energy Sector
5. The audit of the electricity sector is The organization of the sector,           Implemented. The audit
completed and the Government has          notably the dispersed public              of the electricity sector
submitted to IDA a letter of sector       ownership of assets, the cost             was completed in
policy, satisfactory to the Association,  structure and cost recovery were all      September 2008, and a
reflecting the key recommendations of     likely to discourage the large private    letter of sector policy was
the audit and aiming to improve the       investment required to put the sector     finalized and adopted in
efficiency of the sector and restore its  on a sound footing.                       February 2009.
financial viability.
6. The National Committee for EITI is       Transparency in the sector, with        Implemented. The
made operational, and the Ministry of      clear rules of the game, is essential    National Committee was
Economy and Finance has adopted a          to avoid corruption and ensure that      established by decree and
work program and budget for this           rents are used for the public good. It   resources from the State
committee for 2008-09.                     is also important in ensuring            budget (2008) were
                                           continuing political cohesion under a    allocated for operating
                                           transitional government.                 costs. A work program
                                                                                    and budget were adopted
                                                                                    and approved by the
                                                                                    Ministry of Economy and

                                                       11
        EGRG II Prior Action                              Rationale                             Status
                                                                          Finance.
IIB. Strengthening Governance, Transparency and Efficiency in the Cocoa Sector
7. The total amount of quasi-fiscal          Excessive levies on farm families,       Implemented. A decree
levies for the entities involved in the      essentially regressive taxes, were       reducing quasi-fiscal
cocoa sector (including ARCC, BCC,           aggravating poverty and reducing         levies by FCFA 15/Kg
FRC, FDPCC, Bagging) collected on            producer participation, since they       for 2008-09 was issued in
the cocoa during the 2008-09 campaign        were not being used to benefit           October 2008.
has been reduced by CFAF 15/kg               farmers.
relative to the amount collected during
the 2007-08 season.
8. The Government has conveyed to            Investment by these public entities      Implemented. The
IDA quarterly reports on investment          had become a source of corruption        reports for the first three
projects approved for 2008 under the         and significant financial losses.        quarters of 2008 were
FIMR, the FDPCC-Investment Fund                                                       completed and
and the FRC-Prudential Reserve,                                                       transmitted to IDA.
including the status of their
implementation, for the first three
quarters of 2008.
9. Draft internal audit reports of the        Audits were indispensable to            Implemented: (i) The
ARCC, BCC, FRC and FDPCC have                identifying and quantifying financial    draft internal audits were
been prepared, a committee has been          irregularities, to sanction those        completed and a
put in place to manage the restructuring     responsible and to identify              summary provided to
of the sector, and a letter of cocoa         correctives measures. In September       IDA; (ii) in February
sector policy, satisfactory to the           2008, the Government announced           2009 a committee
Association, has been adopted by the         the removal of the leadership of the     responsible for
Government.                                  four cocoa entities.                     restructuring the sector
                                                                                      was created and (iii) a
                                                                                      policy letter for the
                                                                                      sector's development was
                                                                                      adopted in February
                                                                                      2009.
IIC. Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in the Financial Sector
10. (i) Recapitalization plans,              These measures were crucial to           Implemented. Two
satisfactory to the Banking                  restoring public confidence in           recapitalization plans
Commission, for two commercial banks         private lenders and for attracting new   were approved by the
with negative equity as of December          banking interest. In addition, this      Banking Commission
31, 2006, as per the report of the           audit was a necessary prerequisite to    (September 2008).
Banking Commission, have been                cleaning up the portfolio and            The strategy of the
finalized; (ii) a financial and              introducing more transparent lending     microfinance was
operational audit of BNI has been            practices. Furthermore, a well           completed and approved
completed; and (iii) a microfinance          functioning and financially sound        by the Cabinet in October
strategy, satisfactory to the association,   micro finance network was deemed         2008 and the financial
has been completed and approved by           an essential element in the economic     and operational audit of
the Cabinet                                  integration of demobilized               BNI has been completed
                                             combatants, the diversification of the   in December 2008.
                                             rural economy and for the economic
                                             empowerment of women.




                                                         12
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Factors outside the control of Government

Global conditions further eroded an already unfavorable investment climate, the difficulty of
doing business and a parlous political situation. Oil and food prices peaked worldwide in 2008,
pushing inflation higher, while a strong Euro, to which the national currency is tied, reduced the
competitiveness of the economy. However, cocoa prices proved extremely resilient, reaching a
record high in 2008. The economy was also helped by the high price for oil, since Côte d'Ivoire is
a small net exporter.

Factors generally subject to Government control

Government ownership: This has been a challenge due to the coalition nature of the Government.
Recognizing the high risk of the operation, Government has worked to build consensus across
society and political parties, through the participatory process of consultation underpinning the
PRSP (adopted February 2009). The Government has also made good progress in the
improvement of governance in the cocoa sector ­ a major challenge, given strong vested interests,
prevalent corrupt practices and a climate of great political sensitivity.3 The development partners
helped by keeping the issue high on the agenda through dialogue and conditionality. Extra-
budgetary spending for the construction of the new administrative capital of Yamoussoukro
raised some doubts about official priorities but the Minister of Finance moved quickly to rectify
the situation once the problem was uncovered.

Capacity Constraints: Côte d'Ivoire emerged from the six year conflict with the higher and
middle ranks of the administration depleted by a high turnover of personnel as new appointments
were made on the basis of political affiliation. Fortunately, the Ministry of Economy and Finance
was not affected by such changes, given the respect for its leadership and high technical
competency, considered essential to successful implementation of the reform agenda. However,
the professional skills of civil servants across the board were eroded through the lack of up-
grading opportunities or on-the-job training for junior officers. Procurement skills suffered in
particular, given an environment in which even large contracts were granted without competition,
on a discretionary basis and often in secrecy. With the renewal of relations with the donor
community, Côte d'Ivoire was able to tap into significant technical assistance since donors
recognized that the skills and knowledge gap could slow the reform effort and would require the
coordinated and undivided attention of the development partners. IDA's 2007 LICUS grant
provided a flexible source of funding for technical assistance to address priority issues while the
2008 PEMFAR contributed significantly to the diagnosis of capacity issues in financial
management and procurement, preparing the way for the GIDG which provides financing for
priority technical assistance. In addition, the IMF provides technical assistance in public financial
management and tax administration through the West Africa AFRITAC.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

M&E Design: The arrangements for the first EGRG, found to be satisfactory, were retained.

3
  In September 2008, following accusation of fraud and investigation by the public prosecutor, the
Government announced the removal of the leadership of the four cocoa entities.


                                                 13
M&E Implementation: Day-to-day monitoring and evaluation of the program was to be the
responsibility of an MEF team, headed by the Director of Cabinet of the MEF and comprising:
the General Director of the Economy (DGE), the General Director of the Budget and Finance
(DGBF), and the General Director of Planning (DGP), the Economic Advisor of the Prime
Minister and the Special Advisor of the MEF who is also Coordinator of IDA's TA assistance
under the Governance and Institutional Development Grant. This arrangement worked well,
providing continuity in policy dialogue, building on the experience of the first operation. It was
agreed at project appraisal that the Government would provide quarterly reports to IDA on
implementation progress measured against the performance indicators. This arrangement was not
implemented as regular joint reviews (with co-TTLs) were held with the Government on the
occasion of IDA missions. In addition, one co-TTL and several key task team members were
based locally and had continuous interactions with the MEF team to monitor progress. This
approach compensated for the lack of quarterly reports from the authorities.
M&E Utilization: The overall reform efforts were reviewed by the Government in close
coordination with regular Bank missions to ensure continued implementation of the program. The
evaluation results were also used to inform the preparation of the subsequent EGRG III.
Significant progress was made in the development of new information systems essential to the
monitoring and evaluation of public finances. SIGFIP was rolled out to all départements and
some municipalities (an EGRG II result) and is now being linked to ASTER, to SIGFAE and to
the payroll. This integrated information system has already improved the monitoring and
evaluation of public expenditures, with better targeting and tracking of poverty expenditures.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation:

The EGRG II was designed in the context of the preparation of the full-PRSP and the HIPC
Decision Point document. In anticipation of a follow-up DPO (EGRG III) or a first PRSC, the
EGRG II policy matrix identified a set of 9 reform measures to be considered as a basis for
additional IDA assistance, depending on implementation progress during the timeframe of the
operation. These measures aimed at further improvement of public finance management, as well
as enhanced governance and transparency in the key economic sectors (cocoa, energy and
finance). The measures are summarized in Table 2.

                 Table 2: EGRG II Further Actions and EGRG III Prior Actions
    EGRG-2 Further Actions                    EGRG-3 Prior Actions               Reasons for Changes
I. Improving Governance, Transparency and Efficiency in Public
   Expenditure Management
1. A budget for 2009 has been      1. A budget for 2010 has been              More recent year chosen to
approved by presidential ordinance approved by presidential ordinance         reflect change in date of
before the beginning of 2009; the  no later than December 31, 2009.           appraisal from November
cabinet's communication on the     The cabinet's communication on the         2009 to March 2010.
budget has been made public in the budget has been made public in the
Official Gazette and the major     Official Gazette and the major daily
daily newspaper.                   newspaper.
2. The Ministry of Economy and          2. The Ministry of Economy and        More recent year chosen to
Finance has submitted the draft         Finance has submitted the draft       reflect change in date of
budget execution bill for fiscal year   budget execution bill (Lois de        appraisal from November
2007 to the Chamber of Accounts.        Règlements) for fiscal year 2008 to   2009 to March 2010.
                                        the office of the General Auditor
                                        (Chamber des Comptes).



                                                     14
II.A Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in the Energy Sector
3. Actions needed to clarify           3. Two ministerial decrees             Minor change to clarify exact
SOGEPE's legal status as the           clarifying SOGEPE's legal status as    nature of actions needed.
electricity sector asset holding       the electricity sector asset holding
company have been taken and a          company and transferring all state-
decree confirming the transfer of      owned electricity sector assets to
all state-owned electricity sector     SOGEPE have been issued.
assets to SOGEPE has been issued.

4. EITI's administrator has been       4. The EITI administrator has been     Reference to publication
recruited and the 2006 report has      appointed and the 2006 report has      removed in order to avoid
been finalized and published.          been finalized.                        further delays but authorities
                                                                              committed to publication
                                                                              shortly after approval of the
                                                                              operation.

II.B Strengthening Governance, Transparency and Efficiency in the
Cocoa sector
5. For the start of the 2009/10       5. For the start of the 2009/10         No change.
season, the Government has            season, the Government has reduced
reduced the registration tax from     the registration tax from 10% to 5%
10% to 5% of the CIF price and has of the CIF price and has not
not increased other taxes and         increased other taxes and mandatory
mandatory levies in the cocoa         levies in the cocoa sector; it has
sector; it has reduced the export tax reduced the export tax (DUS) from
(DUS) from CFAF 220/kg to             CFAF 220/kg to CFAF 210/kg, and
CFAF 210/kg, and it has reduced       it has reduced quasi-fiscal levies
quasi-fiscal levies from CFAF         from CFA31.26/kg to CFAF
31.26/kg to CFAF 26.26/kg.            26.26/kg.

6. The external audits of FIMR's       6. The external audits of the          The need to obtain additional
operations and use of resources for    bagging, weighing and quality          information made it
the period 2007-2008, has been         control programs, and the draft        impossible to complete the
completed and made public.             external audit of FIMR's operations    FIMR audit on time for
                                       and use of resources for the period    appraisal but the authorities
                                       2007-2008, have been completed.        agreed to make this
                                                                              information available prior to
                                                                              Board presentation. Other
                                                                              audits were added to
                                                                              strengthen the package.

7. The external financial and          7. The external financial and          Authorities argued that
organizational audit of the four       organizational audits of the four      publication of these audits
entities (FRC, BCC, ARCC, and          entities (FRC, BCC, ARCC, and          should wait until after the
FDPCC) and the inventory of their      FDPCC) and the inventory of their      criminal proceedings against
assets and various obligations/debts   assets and various obligations/debts   the management of these
have been completed and made           have been completed.                   entities were finished.
public.




                                                    15
II.C Strengthening Governance and Efficiency in the Financial Sector

8. The three commercial banks                                                This measure was proving
with negative equity in June 2008                                            too difficult to implement for
and no approved recapitalization                                             a combination of political and
plan by October 2008 have                                                    legal reasons, and these banks
submitted their recapitalization                                             did not warrant further
plans to the Banking Commission                                              attention given their small
and have implemented them.                                                   size.

9. (i) The Government has              8. The Government has overseen        Modified for greater
overseen the implementation of the     the implementation of the             precision and to acknowledge
restructuring plan established after   restructuring plan for the            the better performance on
the inspection of UNACOOPEC,           microfinance sector, by placing       recovering non-performing
including the recovery of at least     some institutions under enhance       loans.
25% of non-performing loans;           supervision or provisional
otherwise, the Government will         administration and having at least
impose appropriate sanctions on        50% of the non-performing loans of
UNACOOPEC (including the               UNACOOPEC recovered.
replacement of its management);

(ii) the Government has finalized a    9. The Government has submitted a     No substantive change.
revised application for a banking      revised application for a banking
license for CNCE, incorporating        license for CNCE, incorporating the
the write-off of unrecoverable debt,   write-off of unrecoverable debt, to
and submitted it to the Banking        the Banking Commission
Commission.                            (Commission Bancaire).



Further Actions Identified as HIPC Completion Point (CP) "Triggers"
EGRG II also complemented related measures identified as HIPC completion point triggers,
another powerful tool for driving reform forward. The proposed triggers are as follows:




                                                    16
               Box 1. Côte d'Ivoire: Triggers for Floating Completion Point

PRSP
· Preparation of a full PRSP through a participatory process and its satisfactory implementation for at
   least one year, as evidenced by an Annual Progress Report submitted by the government to IDA
   and the IMF.
Macroeconomic stability
· Maintenance of macroeconomic stability as evidenced by satisfactory performance under the IMF
   ECF program (formerly PRGF-supported program).
Public Financial Management
· Quarterly publication of budget execution statements (including revenue; expenditure by type,
   function, and administration/type and by different stages of budget execution; and the identification
   of poverty-reducing spending) within six weeks after the end of each quarter, for at least the four
   quarters immediately preceding the completion point.
· Certification of conformity (certification de conformité) by the competent authority of the draft Loi
   de règlements of a given fiscal year, within 10 months after the end of that fiscal year, for at least
   one year immediately preceding the completion point.
· Public procurement regulatory entity operational (separate from control entities) and quarterly
   publication in the public procurement bulletin of all signed procurement and concessions contracts
   (including those from the parastatals), for at least one year immediately preceding the completion
   point.
 Social Sectors
·    Increase in trained personnel-supervised birth deliveries to 65 percent on average nationwide (from
    56 percent in 2006) during at least the year immediately preceding the completion point.
·    90 percent of students enrolled in all public primary schools to have received three textbooks
    covering French, mathematics, and civic education, during at least the school year immediately
    preceding the completion point.
Debt Management
· Publication on the Treasury website, on a quarterly basis within six weeks after the end of each
   quarter, of data on external and domestic public and publicly-guaranteed debt (debt stocks, current
   debt service obligations, actual debt service payments and loan disbursements) for at least four
   quarters immediately preceding the completion point.
Governance
· Regular public reporting of payments to, and revenues received by the government for the
   extractive industries (mining, oil and gas) in line with the EITI criteria, with a recent annual report
   during at least the year immediately preceding the completion point.
· Annual publication, within seven months of the end of the fiscal year, of the certified financial
   statements, in accordance with international standards, of PETROCI for at least the year
   immediately preceding the completion point.
· A reduction in overall indirect taxation of the cocoa sector to no more than 22 percent of the CIF
   price, as evidenced by: (i) promulgation of a budget law, and (ii) an official communication issued
   to exporters no more than five months before the start of the upcoming cocoa marketing season;
   (iii) adoption by the government of a new institutional and regulatory framework for the
   cocoa/coffee sector and satisfactory implementation of the functions under government
   responsibility for at least six months immediately preceding the completion point, based on its new
   strategy for development of the sector.




                                                  17
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The design of the EGRG II benefited from recent or ongoing analytical Bank reports, as well as
close policy dialogue on the key sectors covered by the operation. Analytical work includes: a
study of cocoa taxation (2002), analytical papers documenting long-term growth performance and
competitiveness (2004), poverty analysis including the impact of cocoa taxation (2006), a poverty
diagnostic study prepared jointly by the Bank, the National Statistic Institute (INS) and the PRSP
preparation team (2007),4 operational experience and lessons derived from the implementation
of LICUS grants (2006-08) in support of the social dimensions of the peace process and a post-
conflict Social Assessment. A 2006 EC report on optimal taxation in the cocoa sector was also a
source of support. The PEMFAR (2008) provided: (i) a diagnostic analysis of the strengths and
weaknesses of public financial management system and practices; (ii) input for the design and
preparation of the next phase of the PFM reform strategy, including a time-bound sequenced
action plan of priority reforms; and (iii) a rating of all key components of the PFM system against
international benchmarks which can be used to judge future progress of PFM reforms. In
addition, as part of its efforts to enhance governance and transparency in the energy sector, the
Government commissioned in 2007 three audits, financed by the Bank, in the areas of (i) oil and
gas exploration, development and production; (ii) oil refining; and (iii) electricity. These audits
completed in 2008, provided sound understanding of the issues as well as recommendations for a
reform program in the energy sector. Furthermore, Bank's recent analysis and dialogue with the
authorities in the energy, cocoa and the recent Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP)
completed in 2009, laid the basis for the grant. Design was also informed by the regular joint
missions of the Bank and the IMF to assess macroeconomic policies and performance and by
joint preparation of the Enhanced HIPC Initiative Decision Point document.
Alignment with Good Practice Principles on Conditionality: EGRG II was fully aligned with the
principles.
(i) Reinforce ownership: The operation was fully owned by Government (Letter of Development
Policy - Annex 3). The EGRG II supported critical elements of the Government's strategy to
recover from crisis and enhance governance and transparency in public sector resource
management, and the energy, cocoa and financial sectors. There was widespread support for
these reforms, designed with the broad involvement of Government, which were championed and
managed by Minister of Economy and Finance, coordinating the dialogue with other government
agencies and organizations such as the ministries of agriculture, energy and mines and the
BCEAO (through the Banking Commission). The EGRG II also reflected the principal priorities
of the draft PRSP, notably the effort to raise the income of the rural poor (the cocoa sector
reform). The PRSP process involved extensive grassroots consultation which broadened the
ownership of Ivoirian society.
(ii) Agree up front with the Government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework: The Government's reform program supported by EGRG II is
summarized in its policy matrix (Annex 3). As mentioned previously, it supports PEMFAR
reforms sustained by the IMF, AfDB and EU. This program was developed in 2008 through
intensive policy dialogue with the IMF and the AfDB. Bilateral donors were not ready to provide

4
  A household budget survey was completed in August 2008 and its results have been an important input
for the preparation of the poverty reduction strategy.

                                                 18
budget support. The expected results of the program supported by the proposed grant are detailed
in table 4.
(iii) Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances: The policy matrix was customized to reflect country circumstances. Elements of
its reform program are drawn from the recently adopted PRSP, the preparation of policy letters
(e.g., cocoa and electricity sectors) and country analytical work. The Government's program of
reforms in the PFM, energy, cocoa and financial sectors is supported by IDA under a well
integrated and sequenced series of instruments. The IDA GIDG provided flexibility to
Government through the provision of technical assistance to meet emerging needs with regard to
additional analytic and policy work and to implementation design
(iv) Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement: Selected
prior actions were identified jointly with the Government and in close consultation with other
development partners (notably the IMF and AfDB). The principal criterion for selection was
capacity to give momentum to key reforms and deepen them in a crisis-recovery context.
Conditionality of EGRG II was complementary to the program of Government reforms supported
by other IDA instruments, by the IMF and other donors.
(v) Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support: IDA staff worked in close coordination with the IMF, AfDB, EC, AFD and
other bilateral donors in supporting the Government's reform program.
Risks and Risk Mitigation: The EGRG II recognized the principal risks to the program
(political/security, macroeconomic, fiduciary and implementation) and identified mitigating
measures to address them. Table 3 below summarizes these measures.
Political/Security Risk. This was a high risk/high win operation, given the fragility of the political
and social situation and the proximity of the elections scheduled for late 2009, then moved to
2010, though still without firm dates at the time of writing this ICR. Elections would bring a new
configuration of government, even if the president was re-elected, ending the coalition and
leading to changes at the head of key ministries. Several factors combined to mitigate risk
including: the renewed support of a strong coalition of development partners, after the clearance
of arrears and Government's efforts to restore access to basic services. In addition, specific
programs such as the Post Conflict Assistance Project and the DDR worked to improve security
and help the re-insertion of former combatants into society and work. Perhaps most important of
all, the broad, participatory consultations, beginning in mid-2008, to prepare the PRSP reassured
many citizens that Government's efforts to promote economic and social development were
serious and tangible.
Governance and commitment to reform: Vested interest and political intervention in the cocoa
and energy sectors were strong and threatened to stall the reforms supported by EGRG II. In
addition, since the signing of the Ouagadougou Political Accord in March 2007, the nature of
Côte d'Ivoire's coalition government has not always provided the favorable environment for
bringing governance issues up front and deepening the reform agenda. However, during the
preparation and implementation of the EGRG II, a number of factors contributed to maintaining
the Government commitment to reform, including: (i) continued intensive attention of the
development partners to issues related to PFM and transparency in key economic sectors (cocoa,
energy and finances); (ii) the participatory PRSP process; (iii) sound macroeconomic track record
achieved under two IMF EPCAs program and the initiation of a likely three-year PRGF program;
(iv) possible attainment of HIPC Decision Point in March 2009 and Completion Point expected in
early 2011; and subsequently a debt relief thereafter .



                                                 19
Macroeconomic risk: Close monitoring of evolving conditions in 2009, with the strong support of
the key partners ­ IDA, the IMF and the AfDB ­ helped Government adjust, with tighter control
of expenditures and government investment, curtailing of defense and security expenditures and
measures to increase tax revenue and close exemptions. The world market helped by keeping oil
and cocoa prices high.
Fiduciary risk: Sanctions imposed on cocoa sector executives and operational and financial
audits, completed and ongoing, in the cocoa, energy and finance sectors, sent a strong message
that change was underway, as did steps toward an anti-corruption campaign. The PEMFAR laid
out a clear agenda for improving the management of public finances and for building anew the
regulatory framework and institutions required to bring practice and procedures into step with
WAEMU and international regimes. Essential staff training in key ministries, with technical
assistance and financing through the GIDG, prepared the ground for rolling out the new
procurement regulations to all government departments, administrative units and municipalities.
As EGRG II closed, all major contracts were being awarded according to those norms and
standards, with appropriate monitoring of budget execution.
                     Table 3: EGRG II Anticipated Risks and Mitigating Factors
                       Risk                                                  Mitigating Factor
 Political/ Security risk from renewed violence       Outside of operation's scope, but mitigated through the ongoing
 in the country and stemming from the fragility       Bank's Post-Conflict Assistance Project (US$120 million) and
 of the peace process, the upcoming presidential      support from other development partners, notably through the
 elections, delays in disarmament,                    disarmament, demobilization and reintegration program. Also,
 demobilization and reintegration (DDR), and          progress made through the public hearings (audiences foraines)
 possible changes of reform-minded ministers          to address the identification problem underlying the conflict was
 after the presidential elections.                    a positive sign towards political stability.
 Governance and commitment to reform.                 Continued intensive attention of the development partners and
 Vested interests and political intervention in the   existing broad-based constituency including external and
 key sectors of cocoa, energy, and finance.           domestic stakeholders for substantive restructuring of the cocoa
                                                      sector. The initiation and subsequent implementation of a
                                                      PRGF/ECF program with the IMF, attainment of HIPC Decision
                                                      Point and the prospect of debt relief at HIPC Completion Point
                                                      also contributed to the Government's commitment to reform.
 Macroeconomic risk, from a government                Close monitoring by the Bank, IMF, and donors; increased
 failure to adhere to a responsible medium-term       access to donor resources; technical support related to HIPC and
 framework, to reach the HIPC Decision Point or       also the Government commitment to adjust the macroeconomic
 exogenous shocks affecting its performance           program to address possible exogenous shocks.
 (notably weather, commodity prices and
 exchange rate volatility).
 Fiduciary risk, from a failure to suppress           Completion of a PEMFAR, with further technical assistance for
 corruption or make effective use of the fiscal       implementation through the TA operation (GIDG). Improved
 space arising from arrears clearance and budget      transparency through audits in all three sectors, adherence to the
 support.                                             EITI. IMF control of extra-budgetary and public works spending.



3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The EGRG II successfully achieved its objectives. It drove forward the reforms initiated by the
Government in 2008 leading to arrears clearance, re-engagement of the donors and the
implementation of important steps in public finance management and sector reform. This
trajectory of sustained good performance demonstrates the commitment of Government and a
strong learning curve on the part of the institutions charged with oversight and the conduct of the
reform, notably the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
With regard to key sector reforms, results were also strong despite the difficulties and sensitivities
of bringing governance and transparency to a cocoa sector subjected to corrupt practices by

                                                           20
strong vested interests. The implementation of operational and financial audits in energy, cocoa,
and the financial sectors gave impetus to the development of sector strategies, as well as leading
to increased public and investor confidence. The EITI process is now well underway, with an
operational National Commission, paving the way for new investment in oil and gas in the
framework of more transparent production and revenue sharing agreements. The reduced burden
of taxes and quasi-fiscal charges in the cocoa sector is helping raise incomes for 28 percent of the
country's poor. The restoration of solvency and the strengthening of controls in microfinance will
improve credit for more than one million poor customers, helping promote diversification and
growth in the informal sector, with the economic empowerment of women. Finally, the
performance of the restructuring of the banking sector was mixed. Of the small banks which had
negative equity in June 2008, four of them submitted recapitalization plans to the Banking
Commission of the BCEAO, but only two of these plans were approved in 2008. These two banks
implemented these plans and regained a position net worth by January 2009. A third bank has
also attracted sufficient new capital to eliminate its deficit situation, but a legal case launched by
one of the shareholders has delayed approval of its recapitalization plan by the Banking
Commission. The two remaining banks have been recapitalized by the state, on the grounds that
their specialized mandates which focused on small and medium enterprise and agriculture
represented strategic priorities. One of these banks (Versus) had its restructuring plan approved in
December 2009. This intervention is temporary as the government intends to privatize both once
their financial positions have been strengthened. Nonetheless, the risk remains that at least one of
the banks may not be salvageable and may need to be liquidated. The cost to the state of
recapitalizing these banks has been substantial at CFAF 43 billion. Overall, the reform program
proceeds satisfactorily, as reflected by the eight outcome indicators listed in Table 4.

Complementary Operations supporting the Reforms

The IDAGIDG TA operation, approved in June 2008, supports the implementation of reforms in
PFM, energy, cocoa and financial sectors, providing financial and technical assistance for
institutional strengthening and governance reforms beyond the horizon of the EGRG II.
Specifically, it supports efforts to strengthen Government's capacity to: (i) enhance efficiency
and transparency in the use of public resources; (ii) manage the development of its hydrocarbon
resources in an environmentally and socially sound and sustainable manner; and (iii) foster
governance and efficiency in the cocoa sector. This grant funded the cocoa audits and the EITI
report preparation that are prior actions for EGRG III.
Government's reform program was also supported by several complementary, carefully
integrated and sequenced IDA operations and advisory services. A LICUS Trust Fund recovery
package of US$6.4 million was approved in June 2006 which includes support for strengthening
governance and post-conflict planning. The LICUS program also includes support for civil
registry modernization and the national identification process jointly designed with the EC
(approved in May 2008) and for helping finance employment creation for youth at risk. A new
LICUS funding of US$1.5 million was approved to support the PRSP process and facilitation of
the Ouagadougou Accord. The ongoing Post-Conflict Assistance Project (US$120 million)
provides support, among other things, for the redeployment of the public administration in the
CNW. The Rural Land and Community Infrastructure Development Project (Projet National de
Gestion des Terroirs et d'Equipement Rural), with US$28 million of undisbursed funds, was
reactivated and restructured in support of the post-conflict recovery of agricultural activities and
the strengthening of rural sector institutions, with coverage of the cocoa-producing zones. The
Urgent Electricity Rehabilitation Project (US$50 million) was approved in June 2009 to support
improvements in the sector's operational efficiency, through the reduction of technical and non-
technical losses. Finally, private sector development was supported through the SME

                                                 21
Revitalization and Governance Project (US$15 million) which was approved by the Board in
October 2009.




                                          22
                               Table 4: Anticipated results and actual outcomes of the EGRG II
                        Anticipated Result                     Actual Outcome
Component 1: IMPROVE GOVERNANCE, TRANSPARENCY AND EFFICIENCY IN PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
MANAGEMENT
1A: Budget Implementation process improved

-    Rate of transposition of WAEMU guidelines and international standards - 100% (end 2009)
    in the national procurement regulatory framework increased
    Baseline: 80% (2008)
    Target: 100% (end 2009)

- MEF website operational and the rating of PEFA indicators on access of - PEFA indicator B has been met and should be
  the public to the principal budget information improved                  confirmed by the next PEFA exercise which the
  Baseline: C (2007)                                                       Government has committed to conduct in 2011
  Target: B (end 2009)

- SIGFIP extended to the remaining 10 departments                             - 59 departments (end 2009)
  Baseline: 49 departments (2008)
  Target: 59 departments (end 2009)
Component 2: IMPROVE GOVERNANCE AND EFFICIENCY IN THE KEY SECTORS
2A: Transparency in the oil and gas sector improved

- Draft annual EITI report for 2006 completed.                         - Draft report for 2006 completed. Draft report
  Baseline: no reports initiated (2008)                                  for 2007 also completed
   Target: 2006 report completed (end 2009)
2B: Efficiency of cocoa sector improved through the rationalization of
operations
                                                                              - 15 billion (end 2009)
- Operating costs of the four cocoa entities reduced
  Baseline: FCFA 23 billion (2008)
  Target: FCFA 16 billion (end 2009)
                                                                              - 4 reports issued for 2008 and 3 for 2009. These
- Quarterly reports on investments in the cocoa sector continued to be          reports continue to be made public
  made public.
  Baseline: Reports issued for the first three quarters of 2008 (2008)
  Target: Reports issued for all quarters of 2008 and first 3 quarters of
  2009 (end 2009)
                                                                              - Roadmap is in place and the draft final report of
-  Roadmap for the elaboration of a new strategy for cocoa sector reform is   the new strategy was completed and transmitted to
  in place.                                                                   the President of the Republic in October 2009. The
  Baseline: Letter of sector policy adopted (2008)                            final report will be completed in June 2010.
  Target: Roadmap is in place and progress being made on its
  implementation (end 2009)
2C: Banking Sector Strengthened                                               - 119.5 percent by end 2009.

-   Decrease in the ratio of insider lending (loans to shareholders,
    management, employees) to the net worth of BNI.
    Baseline: 315 percent (June 2008)
    Target: 250 percent (end 2009)




                                                                 23
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The operation is rated satisfactory.5 The second EGRG achieved its development program
objectives ­ the strengthening of governance, transparency and efficiency in public finances and
the key sectors, to promote economic growth. The momentum of reform, spurred by the clearance
of arrears and the renewal of donor support in 2008, was maintained, even though events in 2009
challenged macroeconomic stability and weakened investment confidence. As the world recovery
proceeds and trade picks up, Côte d'Ivoire is well-placed, given greater transparency in the
energy, cocoa and financial sectors, to attract private investment. With strong donor support and
the prospect of additional debt relief, Côte d'Ivoire can anticipate rising per capita income and
increasing pro-poor spending, provided the last barriers to free and fair elections are removed.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Institutional Change and Strengthening

The MEF came through the implementation period strengthened, with sustained leadership and
firmness of purpose. This was the third year of experience in the preparation and implementation
of the reform ­ a period of intense dialogue with the development partners and with the country at
large. Guided by the agenda set by the PEMFAR, capacity in managing and monitoring was
strengthened through the roll-out of the management systems SIGFIP and ASTER. Directorates
were strengthened with personnel and budget in the areas of budgeting, financial management,
debt and microfinance oversight. A new institutional framework for procurement was built
including a watchdog agency, with parallel training of human resources in priority ministries.

In the energy sector, the National Commission for EITI independent from government but key to
reform became operational and the Oil Committee gained new experience. The Cocoa Sector
Management Committee exercised increasing authority and a Reform Committee on sector
strategy was set up and began work, while the cocoa entities underwent financial and operational
auditing to strengthen their governance and functioning. In the financial sector, work to restore
the capacity of the microfinance network, got underway and the BNI was given a new mandate.
Finally, the MEF increasedpublic communication enhancing transparency and accountability,
with improved reporting in the media and on the Web on budget allocations, budget execution
(through the auditing of budget execution by the Office of the General Auditor, Chambre des
Comptes) and by quarterly reporting by the responsible institutions for key sectors (cocoa and
energy), notably on the physical and financial flows related to cocoa, oil and gas.

(b) Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)




5
  In the last ISR for EGRG II a moderately satisfactory (MS) rating was proposed for the implementation
performance (IP) as well as the project development objective (PDO), pending further progress on reforms
until the ICR. The progress made between the ISR and the ICR brought the outcome to a satisfactory (S)
rating.


                                                   24
None are identified.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

The chief risk to maintaining continued progress on the reform program is on the
political/security front. The authorities are having great difficulty reaching the point where they
are ready to hold elections, and various stakeholders are getting frustrated. This risk is counter-
balanced by the popular support for reform because of the return to transparency in government,
improved services and the broad consultation of the people in the PRSP process. International
pressure is also mounting to ensure that the electoral process is completed. Exogenous risks, such
as changing terms of trade or climatic conditions can disrupt the reform program at relatively
short notice. Steady progress toward a more diversified economy can mitigate the former risk
while implementation of policies to assure food security can help mitigate shocks such as the
2008 world food crisis. However, Côte d'Ivoire is more diversified and less subject to climatic
shocks than most countries in the sub-region. Macroeconomic policies are sound and
management of public finances is prudent although one risk is that if conditions - political and
economic improve through the medium term, there may be pressure for increased public
investment in the new administrative capital. Fiduciary risk is being progressively reduced
through implementation of the PEMFAR agenda but hydrocarbon profit-sharing agreements,
which still lack transparency, and major construction contracts often granted with secrecy or
without bidding process pose risks. The EITI process and more work on developing anti-
corruption measures and to strengthen the judiciary should help mitigate these risks. The main
risk in implementation lies in a failure to develop human resources through pre- and in-service
training and to create the performance-linked pay, incentives and working conditions designed to
promote a better performing civil service

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Factors influencing quality at entry were: (a) Strong task team with continuity: the project
enjoyed the leadership of two co-TTLs who provided continuity on one side and fresh ideas and
experience on the other in the management of the operation, combined with some team members
who continued from the first operation while new ones quickly understood the issues (b) the
positive dialogue between government, the Bank and the other members of the strong coalition of
support in the context of the preparation of the PRSP, implementation of the Bank's interim
strategy for Côte d'Ivoire and the implementation of the PRGF. This dialogue was informed by
ongoing sector reform discussion, leading to sector policy papers and strategies in the energy,
cocoa and financial sectors, and by implementation of supporting operations, notably the GIDG,
the Post-Conflict Assistance Program and sector operations such as the Urgent Energy
                                                25
Rehabilitation Project. Finance and Governance Project and the Infrastructure and Energy
Project (2008); (c) strong analytical work, notably PEMFAR (in terms of financial management
and procurement) and the energy sector audits, all completed in 2008.
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision was enhanced by continuity of personnel, their country experience,
local presence and the timing of missions, ensuring that ongoing supervision informed the
preparation of a follow-up operation, EGRG III.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Satisfactory, given the quality at entry, implementation support and follow-up, including the
timely preparation and appraisal of EGRG III.

5.2 Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower performed well under difficult circumstances. The year 2009 was the third year of
the reform process led by the MEF team which exhibited firm purpose, strong leadership and
adaptability in the face of many challenges. This was a period of intense policy dialogue, within
Government, with the development partners and, increasingly, with the civil society and private-
sector leaders during the launch of the PRSP implementation. As policies matured and strategies
became clear, there were strong pressures from the public and from partners for implementation
to proceed without delay. Maintaining the momentum on four complex sectors- public finances,
energy, cocoa and the financial sector- would have been a challenge for most Governments, even
in a stable political and social environment. Although security improved somewhat (there are still
informal barricades on many secondary roads in the interior), the economic climate remained
unstable and unpredictable, with the 2008 world food crisis followed by the global financial crisis
of 2009. Overall, the Borrower performed well throughout the period.

6. Lessons Learned

    ·   The design has benefited from the guidance provided by OPCS, lessons from the first
        EGRG and other development policy operations in post-conflict countries (notably in
        Togo and Liberia). The importance of careful risk analysis which takes into account the
        political and social dimensions, identifying and weighing the relative importance of
        special interests. This is especially important in the case of fragile transitional coalitions.
    ·   Given the difficulty of getting a consensus on difficult issues, it is essential to limit the
        focus of reform to key functions of the Government (public finance management) and to
        sectors vital to economic recovery and growth (energy, cocoa, the financial sector) and
        on policy measures which "open the door" to a deepening of reform.
    ·   Once reform has found its footing, it is important not to slow momentum but rather
        deepen the reform, rather than broadening the scope (which risks over-loading decision
        makers' focus and span of control while stretching high-level human resources).

                                                 26
    ·   In a fluid, post-conflict environment, an important criterion for selecting policy measures
        is the likely impact on public confidence, notably by improving governance and
        transparency and communicating results effectively to the public, as well as informing
        other key actors such as external private investors.
    ·   Measures which lead to tangible results at the grassroots level, such as improved incomes
        and better services, are critical to strengthen both public and political support (for
        example, the reduction of quasi-fiscal levies mainly to benefit poor cocoa farmers) and
        are especially important in the post-conflict context. Those results may often stem from
        "follow-up" investment projects, made possible by policy reforms. For example, the
        rationalization of operations in the electricity sector supported by the EGRGII program
        justified the IDA US$50 million investment operation to upgrade infrastructure on an
        urgent basis, increasing access and quality of service, notably in Abidjan, the political
        and economic center, home to the largest block of voters.
    ·   It is also important to complement and balance broad poverty-oriented measures with
        parallel steps to increase private sector confidence. The EGRG II disbursement supported
        a program of domestic debt arrears clearance which first helped small businesses weather
        the economic recession before moving on to address larger claims on the basis of their
        seniority. The process was transparent, with consultation of the creditors and publication
        of settlements. These steps did much to restore the private sector's faith in the
        Government.
    ·   Integrated planning and timely implementation of complementary IDA project financing
        within the country partnership framework, is essential, not only to demonstrate tangible
        results on the ground, but also to carry a share of the sector policy reform burden (the
        case of the electricity infrastructure project) and to provide the resources need to carry
        forward both analytical work and the design of medium term programs (the GIDG
        finances technical assistance in PFM and in two sectors targeted by EGRG II).
    ·   Complementary conditionality ­ for example, trigger points under HIPC ­ strengthen and
        amplify the impact of measures (for example, the finalization of a comprehensive cocoa
        sector strategy and progress on its implementation is a HIPC trigger. This underlines the
        importance of the "joint approach", as exemplified by IMF/Bank teamwork on the
        PRGF/ECF.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementation Agencies

No comments have been received.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                               27
          Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

 (a) Task Team members
 Names                                Title                                   Unit
 Richard Doffonsou                    Sr. Country Economist                   AFTP4
 Philip English                       Lead Economist                          AFTP4
 Francesco Scaduto-Mendola            Consultant,                             AFTP4
 Silvana Tordo                        Lead Energy Economist                   COCPO
 Mourad Belguedj                      Consultant,                             COCPO
 Sunil Mathrani                       Sr. Energy specialist                   AFTEG
 Issa Diaw                            Sr. Power Engineer                      AFTEG
 Nicaise Ehoue                        Sr. Agricultural Economist              AFTS4
 Daniel Sellen                        Sector Leader                           AFTAR
  Stephen Mink                        Lead Economist                          AFTSN
 Jean-Paul Chausse                    Consultant,                             AFTP
 Djibrilla Adamou Issa                Sr. Financial Sector Specialist         AFTFP
 Emile Finateau                       Consultant                              AFTFM
 Bella Lelouma Diallo                 Financial management Specialist         AFTFM
 Charles Coste                        Sr. Financial Management Specialist     AFTFM
 Sameena Dost                         Sr. Counsel                             LEGES
 Aphrodite Smagadi                    Counsel                                 LEGAF
 Eric Jean Yoboue                     Sr. Procurement Specialist              AFTPC
 Maurice Adoni                        Procurement Specialist                  AFTPC
 Eshogba Olojoba                      Sr. Environmental Specialist            AFTS3
 Judite Fernandes                     Language Program Assistant              AFTP4
 Zainab Mambo-Cisse                   Program Assistant                       AFCF2
 Anet-Oyourou Marie-France            Procurement Assistant                   AFCFF2


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage                                               US$ Thousands (including travel
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                           and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                              1                               2.74
  FY05                                                                             55.42
  FY06                                              5                             133.69
  FY07                                             45                             259.59
  FY08                                             67                               0.00
  FY09                                              9                               0.00
                             Total:               127                             451.44
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                              1                                0.00

                             Total:                 1                                0.00




                                               28
                                                              Annex 2. Government's Policy Matrix
     Reform                EGRG II Prior Actions                         EGRG II                       PRSC-1 Prior actions            Related HIPC completion point             Entities
    Objectives              and other reforms6                           Outcomes                       and other reforms 7                       triggers                      Responsible

                                I. IMPROVE GOVERNANCE, TRANSPARENCY AND EFFICIENCY IN PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT

Improve            A budget for 2008 has been approved by    The Ministry of Economy and         (i) A budget for 2009 has been       Quarterly publication of budget           MEF, DGBF
transparency       presidential ordinance no later than      Finance website is operational      approved by presidential ordinance   execution statements (including
and                December 31, 2007. The Cabinet's          and the rating for the PEFA         before the beginning of 2009; (ii)   revenue; expenditure by type,
governance in      communication on the budget has been      indicator on access of the public   the Cabinet's communication on       function, and administration/type
public             made public in the Official Gazette and   to the principal budget             the budget has been made public in   and by different stages of budget
expenditure        the major daily newspaper.                information improves to B           the Official Gazette and the major   execution; and the identification of
and debt                                                     (baseline: C in 2007)               daily newspaper.                     poverty-reducing spending) within
management                                                                                       Improve budget classification and    six weeks after the end of each
                                                                                                 nomenclature; develop interface      quarter, for at least the four quarters
                                                                                                 between SIGFIP, ASTER, and           immediately preceding the
                                                                                                 SIGFAE systems, and pursue           completion point.
                                                                                                 SIGFIP deconcentration.
                                                                                                                                      Publication on the Treasury website,
                                                                                                                                      on a quarterly basis within six weeks
                                                                                                                                      after the end of each quarter, of data
                                                                                                                                      on external and domestic public and
                                                                                                                                      publicly-guaranteed debt (debt
                                                                                                                                      stocks, current debt service
                                                                                                                                      obligations, actual debt service
                                                                                                 Assess debt management               payments and loan disbursements)
                                                                                                 performance with DEMPA               for at least four quarters
                                                                                                 methodology to identify weaknesses   immediately preceding the
                                                                                                 and design an actionable reform      completion point.
                                                                                                 program.




6
    Prior actions for EGRG-II are highlighted in bold.
7
    Indicative policy measures for a follow up PRSC-1 are highlighted in bold.


                                                                                      29
   Reform                 EGRG II Prior Actions              EGRG II               PRSC-1 Prior actions             Related HIPC completion point             Entities
  Objectives               and other reforms6                Outcomes               and other reforms 7                        triggers                      Responsible

                  The Ministry of Economy and Finance                        The Ministry of Economy and           Certification of conformity               MEF, DGBF
                  has submitted the draft budget execution                   Finance has submitted the draft       (certification de conformité) by the
                  bills (Lois de Règlements) for fiscal                      budget execution bill (Loi de         competent authority of the draft Loi
                  years 2005 and 2006 to the Chamber of                      Règlements) for fiscal year 2007 to   de règlements of a given fiscal year,
                  Accounts.                                                  the Chamber of Accounts.              within 10 months after the end of
                                                                                                                   that fiscal year, for at least one year
                                                                                                                   immediately preceding the
                                                                                                                   completion point.
                  Less than 15% of current cumulative                        Less than 15% of current cumulative                                             MEF, DGBF,
                  expenses, excluding wages and salaries,                    expenses, excluding wages and                                                   DGCPT
                  debt servicing, and expenditures                           salaries, debt servicing, "régies
                  financed through the revolving fund                        d'avances", and expenditures
                  cash account mechanism ("régies                            financed from external sources, are
                  d'avances"), and from external sources,                    executed through treasury advances,
                  are executed through treasury advances,                    for the year 2009 using the latest
                  for the year 2008.                                         available data.
Improve           Establish processing delays for each                                                                                                       DGBF
budget            step/participant in budget execution and
implementation    implement a mechanism in SIGFIP to
                  monitor actual processing delays.



                                                                             Begin the preparation of a Medium-                                              MEF/
                                                                             Term Expenditure Framework by                                                   Ministères de
                                                                             developing sectoral plans in health                                             la Santé et de
                                                                             and education.                                                                  l'Éducation


Strengthen        Increase the number of audit missions                                                                                                      IGF, DPP,
internal audit    conducted by the Inspection générale des                                                                                                   MEF
function and      finances (IGF) as well as the number of
independent       independent audits of the major public
audits of major   enterprises.
public
enterprises       Strengthen staffing and technical
                  capacities of the IGF and the




                                                                        30
   Reform                 EGRG II Prior Actions                            EGRG II                       PRSC-1 Prior actions            Related HIPC completion point            Entities
  Objectives               and other reforms6                              Outcomes                       and other reforms 7                       triggers                     Responsible
                  Participations and Privatization
                  Directorate (DPP) for conducting such
                  audit missions.

Redeploy          Complete the redeployment of financial        The extension of SIGFIP to the                                                                                   MEF
financial and     and fiscal administration throughout the      remaining 10 departments
fiscal            national territory.                           (baseline: 49 in 2008).
administration
Improve public    The Ministry of Economy and Finance           The rate of transposition of       Implementation of the road map to    Public procurement regulatory entity     DGBF/DMP
procurement       has adopted a time-bound road map             WAEMU guidelines and               separate policy functions from       operational (separate from control
regulation        aiming at separating policy functions         international standards in the     execution and control in public      entities) and quarterly publication in
                  from execution and control ones in            national procurement regulatory    procurement has begun.               the public procurement bulletin of
                  public procurement.                           framework improving to 100                                              all signed procurement and
                                                                percent (baseline: 80 percent in                                        concessions contracts (including
                                                                2008).                                                                  those from the parastatals), for at
                                                                                                                                        least one year immediately
                                                                                                                                        preceding the completion point.


                  Evaluate the existing public procurement                                                                                                                       DGBF/DMP
                  code on the basis of: (i) results attained;
                  (ii) WAEMU Directives.
                                                        II. IMPROVE GOVERNANCE AND EFFICIENCY IN THE KEY SECTORS

                                                                    Improve Governance and Efficiency in the Energy Sector

Improve the       The audit of the electricity sector is                                           Actions needed to clarify                                                     MME/MEF
operating and     completed and the Government has                                                 SOGEPE's legal status as the
financial         submitted to IDA a letter of sector                                              electricity sector asset holding
performance of    policy, satisfactory to the Association,                                         company have been taken and a
the electricity   reflecting the key recommendations of                                            decree confirming the transfer of
sector            the audit and aiming to improve the                                              all state-owned electricity sector
                  sector's efficiency and restore its                                              assets to SOGEPE has been issued.
                  financial viability.




                                                                                        31
   Reform                 EGRG II Prior Actions                            EGRG II                        PRSC-1 Prior actions             Related HIPC completion point            Entities
  Objectives               and other reforms6                              Outcomes                        and other reforms 7                        triggers                     Responsible
                                                                                                   Transfer the sector's assets to                                                 MME/MEF
                                                                                                   SOGEPE; improve the distribution
                                                                                                   network in urban areas; revive rural
                                                                                                   electrification; promote investment
                                                                                                   in new generating capacity.
Improve the       The National Committee for EITI has           The draft annual EITI report for   The EITI's administrator has been      Annual publication, within seven         MME/MEF
transparency of   been made operational, and the Ministry       2007 is completed (baseline: no    recruited and the 2006 report has      months of the end of the fiscal year,
the extractive    of Economy and Finance has adopted a          reports have yet been started).    been finalized and published.          of the certified financial statements,
industry          work plan and budget for this                                                                                           in accordance with international
                  Committee for 2008-09.                                                                                                  standards, of PETROCI for at least
                                                                                                                                          the year immediately preceding the
                                                                                                                                          completion point.

                                                                                                                                          Regular public reporting of
                                                                                                                                          payments to, and revenues received
                                                                                                                                          by, the government for the
                                                                                                                                          extractive industries (mining, oil and
                                                                                                                                          gas) in line with the EITI criteria,
                                                                                                                                          with a recent annual report during at
                                                                                                                                          least the year immediately preceding
                                                                                                                                          the completion point.
Improve the                                                                                      Revise legal, contractual and fiscal
developmental                                                                                    framework for upstream petroleum
impact of the                                                                                    activities; improve Government
extractive                                                                                       capacity to negotiate and supervise
industry                                                                                         petroleum contracts; review
                                                                                                 environmental regulations and
                                                                                                 standards, and establish system for
                                                                                                 monitoring the implementation of
                                                                                                 environmental management plans.
                                                            Strengthen Governance, Transparency and Efficiency in the Cocoa Sector

Reduce fiscal     The total amount of quasi-fiscal levies                                          For the start of the 2009/10 season,   Reduction in the overall indirect        MEF/
and quasi-        for the entities involved in the sector                                          the Government has reduced the         taxation of the cocoa sector to no       MINAGRI
fiscal levies.    (including ARCC, BCC, FRC, FDPCC,                                                registration tax from 10% to 5% of     more than 22 percent of the CIF
                  Bagging) collected on cocoa during                                               the CIF price and has not              price.
                  2008/09 has been reduced by CFAF                                                 increased other taxes and
                  15/k     l ti t th            t ll t d                                                d t    l i i th


                                                                                        32
   Reform                 EGRG II Prior Actions                          EGRG II                         PRSC-1 Prior actions              Related HIPC completion point           Entities
  Objectives               and other reforms6                            Outcomes                         and other reforms 7                         triggers                    Responsible

                  15/kg relative to the amount collected                                          mandatory levies in the cocoa
                  during the 2007/08 season.                                                      sector; it has reduced the export tax
                                                                                                  (DUS) from CFAF 220/kg to
                                                                                                  CFAF 210/kg, and it has reduced
                                                                                                  quasi-fiscal levies from 31.26
                                                                                                  CFAF/kg to 26.26 CFAF/kg.
Improve           The Government has conveyed to IDA         Quarterly reports on investments     The external audit of FIMR's                                                    MEF/
transparency in   quarterly reports on investment projects   in the cocoa sector continue to be   operations and use of resources for                                             MINAGRI
the utilization   approved for 2008 under the FIMR, the      made public (baseline: as of end     the period 2007-2008 has been
of the quasi-     FDPCC-Investment Fund and the FRC-         2008, reports had been issued for    completed and made public.
fiscal levies     Prudential Reserve, including the status   the first three quarters of 2008).
                  of their implementation, for the first
                  three quarters of 2008.

                                                                                                  External audits of programs for
                                                                                                  bagging, weighing, and quality are
                                                                                                  completed and made public.


Restructure the   Draft internal audit reports of the        Operating costs of the four cocoa    The external financial and              Adoption by the government of a         MEF/
cocoa/coffee      ARCC, BCC, FRC, FDPCC have been            entities reduced to CFAF 16          organizational audit of the four        new institutional and regulatory        MINAGRI
sector            prepared; a committee has been put in      billion (baseline: FCFA 23 billion   entities (FRC, BCC, ARCC, and           framework for the cocoa/coffee
                  place to manage the restructuring of the   in 2008); a roadmap for the          FDPCC) and the inventory of their       sector and satisfactory
                  sector, and a letter of cocoa sector       elaboration of a new strategy for    assets and various obligations/debts    implementation of the functions
                  policy, satisfactory to the Association,   cocoa sector reform is in place      has been completed and made
                                                                                                                                          under its responsibility for at least
                  has been adopted by the Government.        and progress is being made in its    public.
                                                             implementation.                                                              six months immediately preceding
                                                                                                                                          the HIPC completion point, based
                                                                                                                                          on its new strategy for development
                                                                                                                                          of the sector.

                                                                                                  A census of producers, judged                                                   MINAGRI
                                                                                                  acceptable by the stakeholders, is
                                                                                                  completed; a roadmap for the
                                                                                                  preparation of a new strategy for
                                                                                                  restructuring the sector has been
                                                                                                  developed and is being
                                                                                                  implemented.



                                                                                     33
   Reform                 EGRG II Prior Actions                         EGRG II                        PRSC-1 Prior actions              Related HIPC completion point    Entities
  Objectives               and other reforms6                           Outcomes                        and other reforms 7                         triggers             Responsible




                                                                Strengthen Financial Sector Soundness and Transparency

Restructure the   Recapitalization plans, satisfactory to                                       The three commercial banks with                                          MEF
banking sector    the Banking Commission, of two                                                negative equity in June 2008 and
                  commercial banks with negative equity                                         no approved recapitalization plan
                  as of December 31, 2006, as per the                                           by October 2008 have submitted
                  report of the Banking Commission, have                                        their recapitalization plans to the
                  been finalized.                                                               Banking Commission and have
                                                                                                implemented them.
                  A financial and operational audit of       Decrease in the ratio of insider   Begin implementation of a new                                            MEF
                  BNI has been completed.                    lending (loans to shareholders,    strategy to reorient its interventions
                                                             management, employees) to the      and reform BNI's institutional
                                                             net worth of BNI from 315          structure to make better use of
                                                             percent in June 2008 to 250        resources.
                                                             percent.
                  A microfinance strategy, satisfactory to                                      (i) The Government has overseen                                          MEF
                  the Association, has been completed,                                          the implementation of the
                  and approved by the Cabinet.                                                  restructuring plan established after
                                                                                                the inspection of UNACOOPEC,
                                                                                                including the recovery of at least
                                                                                                25% of non-performing loans;
                                                                                                otherwise, the Government will
                                                                                                impose appropriate sanctions on
                                                                                                UNACOOPEC (including the
                                                                                                replacement of its management);
                                                                                                (ii) the Government has finalized a
                                                                                                revised application for a banking
                                                                                                license for CNCE, incorporating
                                                                                                the write-off of unrecoverable debt,
                                                                                                and submitted it to the Banking
                                                                                                Commission.




                                                                                     34
                  Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable.




                                        35
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              36
          Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments received.




                                         37
                       Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, Validation Guide, Report of the EITI
   International Advisory Group.

2. IMF Country Report No. 09/326, Côte d'Ivoire: 2009 Article IV Consultation, First
   Review Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the Poverty Reduction and Growth
   Facility, Staff Report.

3. IMF Country Report No. 09/190, Côte d'Ivoire: Enhanced Initiative for Heavily Indebted
   Poor Countries - Decision Point Document, June 2009.

4. International Development Association (Report No. ICR00001062), Implementation
   Completion and Results Report (IDA-H3500) on a Grant in the Amount of SDR 187.9
   million (US$297.95 million equivalent) to the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire for an Economic
   Governance and Recovery Grant, June 22, 2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic
   Management 4, Country Department AFCF2, Africa Region.

5.     International Development Association (Report No. 46167-CI)Program document for the
     Second Economic Governance and Recovery Grant in the amount of SDR 96.4 million
     (US$150 million equivalent) to the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, March 4, 2009, Poverty
     Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country Department AFCF2, Africa Region.

6. International Development Association (Report No. 43546-CI), Emergency Project Paper
   for an IDA Grant in the amount of SDR 8.0 million US$13.0 million equivalent) to the
   Republic of Côte d'Ivoire for a Governance and Institutional Development Grant, May 30,
   2008, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country Department F2, Africa
   Region.

7. International Development Association (Report No. 47551-CI), Côte d'Ivoire: Joint IDA-
   IMF Staff Advisory Note on the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, March 4, 2009.

8. International Development Association (Report No: 47482-CI), Project Appraisal
   Document on a Proposed Grant in the amount of SDR33.5 million (US$50 million
   equivalent) to the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire for an Urgent Electricity Rehabilitation
   Project, May 11, 2009, Energy Group, Africa Region.

9. International Development Association, Implementation Status and Results Report
   (ISRR), Development Policy Lending Operations, Côte d'Ivoire, -Economic Governance
   & Recovery Grant II (Project ID: P112368 -- Loan/Credit No. IDAH4730), June 22,
   2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country Department F2, Africa
   Region.



                                         38
10. Côte d'Ivoire, Economic Governance & Recovery Grant II (Project ID: P112368 --
    Loan/Credit No. IDAH4730), June 22, 2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic
    Management 4, Country Department F2, Africa Region.

11. International Development Association (Report No. 44429-CI), Côte d'Ivoire: Public
    Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (In Three Volumes)
    Volume I: Main Report, PREM 4, Africa Region.


12. International Development Association, Status of Projects in Execution (SOPE) FY09,
    Africa Region, Country: Côte d'Ivoire, Operations Policy and Country Services, October
    2009.

13. International Development Association, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed
    Grant in the amount of SDR 9.6 million (US$11 million equivalent) to the Republic of
    Côte d'Ivoire for a Small and Medium Enterprise Revitalization and Governance Project,
    October 2, 2009.

14. International Development Association, Implementation Status and Results Report
    (ISRR) For Development Policy Lending Operations, Côte d'Ivoire, -Economic
    Governance & Recovery Grant II (Project ID P112368 -- Loan/Credit No. IDAH4730),
    December 11, 2009, Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4, Country
    Department F2, Africa Region.

15. International Development Association (Report No. 52647-CI), Program Document for
    the Third Economic Governance and Recovery Grant in the amount of SDR 58.8 million
    (US$90 million equivalent) including SDR 9.8 million in pilot CRW resources (US$15
    million equivalent) to the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, April 1, 2010.

16. International Development Association (Report No. 53666-CI), International
    Development Association, International Finance Corporation, Multilateral Investment
    Guarantee Agency: Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire for the
    period FY10-FY13, April 1, 2010.

17. République de Côte d'Ivoire, Don de Gouvernance et de Développement Institutionnel--
    DGDI: Aide-Mémoire: Mission de préparation et d'évaluation - 10 Mars au 4 Avril 2008.

18. République de Côte d'Ivoire, Don de Gouvernance et de Développement Institutionnel,
    Procès-verbal de Négociations, Abidjan / Washington, le 20 mai 2008.




                                          39
Country Map




    40
