Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER TF091041 - LBR 
 
Trust Fund for Liberia  
Grant Agreement
 
(Emergency Senior Executive Service Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
(as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Liberia) 
 
Dated October 12, 2007 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER TF091041 - LBR 
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated October 12, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
LIBERIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”), acting as administrator of the Trust Fund for Liberia (TFLIB), 
established on August 25, 2004, by Resolution No. IDA 2004-007 and Resolution No. 
2004-008, of the Executive Directors of the Association and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the IBRD), respectively (collectively, the World 
Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the IBRD has approved, on October 
13, 2004, inter alia, the transfer from IBRD surplus, by way of a grant, of the amount of 
twenty-five million Dollars ($25,000,000), to be used for financing emergency projects in 
Liberia in accordance with the Country Reengagement Note discussed by the World 
Bank’s Executive Directors on March 9, 2004; 
(B) 
the Recipient, requested the Association to allocate two million three 
hundred thousand Dollars ($2,300,000) (the Grant) of the said twenty-five million 
Dollars ($25,000,000) to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project); and 
(C) 
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
NOW, THEREFORE, the Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
STANDARD CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006
 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement.  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in the amount of two million 
three hundred thousand Dollars ($2,300,000) to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MOF and in accordance 
with the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV- EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
Association has been furnished to the Association that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied. 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental 
action. 
4.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the 
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association or, if the Association so 
requests, a certificate satisfactory to the Association of a competent official of the 
Association, showing the following matters:  
(a) 
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally 
binding upon it in accordance with its terms.  
Page  4
-
3
-
4.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the Association 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 4
.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the Association to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the Association may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased 
to exist.  
4.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.
 
This Agreement and all obligations 
of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect by the date 
90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless the Association, after 
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose 
of this Section. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Rec
ipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
Ministry of Finance  
P.O. Box 10-9016 
1000 Monrovia 10 
Liberia 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Monrovia, Republic of Liberia, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA 
 
By  /s/ Antoinette Sayeh 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Liberia 
 
By  Emmanuel Doe Fiadzo 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to recruit experienced and 
qualified professionals with the requisite technical and managerial skills for strategic 
decision making for improved public service delivery.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Component A
:
Establishment of SES Scheme
Establishment of a program to enable the Recipient to recruit and retain 
approximately 100 personnel in the SES over three years, including financing of 
salaries.  
Component B
:
Institutional Strengthening of the CSA 
Provision of basic furniture and office equipment to support and strengthen the 
capacity of CSA as the oversight civil service institution to eventually manage 
the SES program at the end of the Project, as well as institutional support 
including travel and relocation expenses, workshops and seminars, cost of 
independent assessment of SES candidates, external audit  and monitoring and 
evaluation activities.   
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Program Implementation Committee 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during Project implementation, 
a
Program Implementation Committee, with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
responsibility of the Implementation Committee to assist the Recipient, 
the PFMU and the CSA in the coordination, implementation, monitoring, 
evaluation and supervision of the Project.   
 
2. 
The Civil Service Agency (CSA)   
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during Project implementation, 
the CSA working jointly with the PFMU, with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.   
 
3. 
The Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU)
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out the financial management of the Project 
through the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) at the MOF, 
with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of the PFMU to 
assist the Recipient, the CSA and the Program Implementation 
Committee in the coordination, implementation, monitoring, evaluation 
and supervision of the Project.    
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PFMU is at all times adequately 
staffed with professionals and administrative personnel, all hired under 
terms of reference, in adequate numbers, with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PFMU has at all times an integrated 
accounting/financial management software system, acceptable to the 
Association. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
The Recipient shall ensure that the PFMU: (i) maintains the accounting 
records and prepares the financial statements of the Project; (ii) prepares 
the financial aspects of the Interim Un-audited Financial Reports;  
(iii) processes payments of Project Eligible Expenditures; and 
 
(iv) facilitates the financial audits of the Project, pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph B.3 of Section II of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
(e) 
Except as the Recipient and the Association may otherwise agree in 
writing, the Recipient shall not introduce changes in the number of 
positions of the PFMU or in the professional skills required for 
occupying such positions, unless the said changes have been previously 
agreed with the Association in writing. 
4
.
Annual Work Plans 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
not later than December 15 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting in 2007, furnish to the Association for its approval, an annual 
work plan (the Annual Work Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the Project activities to be carried out during the twelve months 
immediately following the presentation of each said plan; (ii) the annual 
budget for the Recurrent Costs; and (iii) the Procurement Plan, 
disbursement schedule and chart of accounts for each said twelve month 
period; 
(b) 
carry out the Annual Work Plan for the year 2008, as previously 
approved by the Association; and   
(c) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Work Plan, as approved by the 
Association, in accordance with its terms. 
5. 
7KH\032SHUDWLRQDO\030DQXDO
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall by January 31, 2008, adopt a manual (the 
Operational Manual), in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, the said manual to include, 
LQWHU\03DOLD
:
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
an institutional implementation plan for the management of the 
Project (including, 
inter alia
,
allocation of responsibilities 
among staff, yearly planning of activities and budget and time 
allocation for those activities); 
(ii) 
the guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Work Plans;  
(iii) 
an annual procurement plan for the implementation of the 
Project; and 
 
(iv) 
a financial management and accounting procedures manual for 
the implementation of the Project.             
 (b) 
The 
Recipient 
carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual.
 
(c) 
Except as the Recipient and the Association may otherwise agree in 
writing, the Recipient shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or 
otherwise fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision 
thereof. 
(d) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
6. 
Selection of Senior Executive Service Staff 
During the implementation of the Project, the Recipient shall ensure:   
(a) 
that the personnel to be recruited to the SES staff positions shall be 
selected by the SES Unit in the CSA, with the assistance of the PFMU;   
(b) 
the adoption of transparent and competitive procedures for the selection 
of SES staff, including, in particular that the positions, job 
descriptions/terms of reference, and the advertisement of positions, 
which shall all be specified in the Annual Work Plan; and 
(c) 
that approval of the SES positions, the process of competitive assessment 
of candidates, and the remuneration level established for each position, 
Page  10
-
9
-
are all carried out in line with guidelines established by and remaining 
under the control of the Implementation Committee.  
 
7.
 Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar year commencing from 
the Effective Date and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
one (1) month after the end of the period covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
(i) 
Number of SES positions recruited against clear job descriptions 
and placed in key ministries in three tranches under performance 
contracts; and 
 
(ii) 
Number of ministries which have begun a thorough restructuring 
and reform process.  
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing 
Date.  In order to assist the Recipient in preparing the Completion Report, the 
Recipient shall employ consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of this Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
Page  11
-
10 -
1. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions; and   
(b) 
maintain an independent auditor to carry out financial audits 
pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph B.1 of Section II of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each quarter, Interim Un-audited 
Financial Reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  
Each such audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) 
Fiscal Year of the Recipient, commencing with the Fiscal Year in which the first 
withdrawal under the Grant Account was made.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Page  12
-
11 -
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following list specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Methods: 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding. 
(b)  Shopping. 
(c) Procurement from United Nations Agencies (including the Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office). 
(d)  Direct Contracting. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following list 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Methods: 
(a)  Least-cost Selection. 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications. 
(c)  Single Source Selection. 
(d)  Individual Consultants.  
Page  13
-
12 -
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more;  
(b) 
the first three (3) contracts for goods procured on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding; 
(c) 
each contract for goods procured on the basis of Direct Contracting;    
(d) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more;  
(e) 
each contract for the employment of individual consultants, regardless of 
the amount. With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience of 
all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the 
Association. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
has been given by the Association; 
(f) 
each contract for the employment of consultants’ services procured on 
the basis of Single Source Selection; and 
(g) 
all contracts for the employment SES personnel, regardless of the 
amount.    
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and 
(c) such additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
Page  14
-
13 -
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant 
Allocated  
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed  
 
1. Recurrent  Costs  for 
SES Staff under 
Component A of the 
Project  
1,880,000 100% 
2. Goods, 
Consultants’ 
Services, Training  and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs under Component 
B
of
the Project 
420,000 100% 
TOTAL 
2,300,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made in respect of payments for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
Appointment of Financial Auditors 
The Recipient shall, not later than six (6) months following the Effective Date, 
appoint the independent auditors referred to in Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard 
Page  15
-
14 -
Conditions, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph C of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
B. 
Civil Service Reform (CRS) Strategy 
1. 
The Recipient shall develop and adopt a civil service reform strategy satisfactory 
to the Association within six months of the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the designation and filling of SES staff positions 
shall be consistent with the civil service reform strategy to be adopted in 
accordance with the provision in paragraph 1 above, and that the same strategy 
shall provide for adequate leadership enabling reform and capacity building in 
key ministries.  
3. 
The Recipient shall during the implementation of the Project, ensure the carrying 
out of annual performance reviews of all SES staff under performance contracts 
in a manner consistent with the civil service reform strategy referred to in 
paragraph B.1 of this Section.  
Page  16
-
15 -
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Annual Work Plans” means any of the plans referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006.  
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of Section IV 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Civil Service Agency” and “CSA” mean the agency created pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Act amending the Public Employment Law and creating a Civil 
Service Agency dated July 1973, or any successor thereto. 
6. 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Recipient’s fiscal year which runs from July 1 
through June 30 of the following year.   
7. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
 
8. 
“Interim Un-audited Financial Report” means the reports referred to in  
paragraph B.2 of Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and which: (a) sets 
forth the sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, showing funds provided under the Designated 
Account, and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; (b) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned Project implementation; and (c) sets forth the 
status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period covered by the 
said report. 
9. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means  reasonable incremental expenses, based 
on an annual budget previously approved by the Association, and incurred by 
CSA on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
Page  17
-
16 -
including office space rental, utilities and supplies, bank charges, advertising 
expenses, communications, vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, 
building and equipment maintenance costs, travel and supervision costs, and 
salaries of SES staff, all financed with the proceeds of the Grant.  
10. 
O
perational
 Manual” means the manual with Project implementation 
arrangements referred to in paragraph 5 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
11. 
“Project Financial Management Unit” and “PFMU” mean the Project Financial 
Management Unit established within MOF for purposes of financial management 
of the Association’s financed Projects under implementation in the Recipient’s 
territory and referred to in paragraph 3 of Section I of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.   
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 4, 2007,
and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Program Implementation Committee” means the committee, acceptable to the 
Association, established for purposes of Project coordination, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section I of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
15. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the 
World Bank Out of Various Funds, dated July 20, 2006. 
16  
“Recurrent Costs” means salary payments payable to personnel of the SES 
scheme under the Project in line with guidelines set by the Program 
Implementation Committee referred to in paragraph 6 (c) of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
17. 
“Training” means reasonable non-consultant expenditures, based on an annual 
budget previously approved by the Association, and incurred by the Recipient to 
finance training activities including: (a) transportation costs of trainers and 
trainees; (b) per diem for trainers and trainees; (c) workshops; (d) seminars and 
Page  18
-
17 -
courses; (e) rental of training facilities and equipment; (f) acquisition of training 
equipment and teaching material; (g) internet access to online learning; and 
(h) study tours, all financed with the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
