                                        Documentof
                                     The World Bank


                              FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                   ReportNo. 41070-LR




                          EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER

                                           FORA

          GRANT FROMTHE TRUST FUNDFORLIBERIA (TFLIB)

                                  INTHE AMOUNT OF

                                   US$2.30 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               REPUBLICOFLIBERIA

                                           FORA

                    SENIOREXECUTIVESERVICE PROJECT

                                   OCTOBER 16,2007




Public Sector ReformandCapacityBuildingUnit
Country Department
Africa RegionalOffice

This document has a restricted distribution and maybe usedby recipients only inthe
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization

                                    i



                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 15,2007)
                     Currency Unit = LiberianDollars (LR$)
                            1US$ = LR$56.50

                             FISCAL YEAR
                            July 1   - June30

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CISCAP  Civil Service Capacity Building Project
cs      Civil Service
CSA     Civil Service Agency
CSRP    Civil Service Reform Program
DA      Designated Account
EC      European Commission
EGIRP   Economic Governance and InstitutionalReformProject
EIP     Emergency Infrastructure Project
EIPSC   Emergency Infrastructure Project Supplemental Component
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEMAJ?  Governance and Economic Management Action Plan
GoL     Government o f Liberia
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International DevelopmentAssociation
IFMIS   IntegratedFinancialManagement Information System
IFRs    InterimFinancialReports
IMF     International Monetary Fund
i-PRSP  InterimPovertyReduction Strategy Paper
ISN     InterimStrategy Note
LCS     Least Cost Selection
LICUS   Low Income Countries Under Stress
M & E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MoF     MinistryofFinance
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGOs    Non-GovernmentalOrganizations
NTGL    NationalTransitional Government o f Liberia
PEMFAR   Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PFMU     Project FinancialManagement Unit
PIC      Programme ImplementationCommittee
PPCC     Public Procurement Concession Commission
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
WTF      Results Focused TransitionalFramework
SBD      Standard Bidding Documents
SES      Senior Executive Service

                                                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




      SOEs            Statement o f Expenditures
      SMP             Staff Monitoring Program
      TA              Technical Assistance
      TF              Trust Fund
      TOR             Terms o f Reference
      TFLIB           Trust Fundfor Liberia
      TSF I Transition Support FundIProject
      TSF I1          Transition Support FundI1Project
      UN              UnitedNations
      UNDP            UnitedNations Development Program
      UNMIL           UnitedNations MissioninLiberia
      USAID           UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment




                                   Vice President: Obiageli K.Ezekwesili
                                 Country Director: Mats Karlsson
                                   Sector Manager: h a n d Rajaram
                               Task Team Leader: Lisa Bhansali




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                            ...
                                            111




                           Table of Contents


Emergency Project Paper (EPP) Data Sheet                                                                 1
A.   Introduction...................................................................................... 2
B.   Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy
     and Rationale for Proposed Bank Emergency Project .....................                            4
C.   Bank Response and Strategy .........................................................               10
D.   Appraisal o f Project Activities, Benefits and Risks.......................                        13
E.   Implementation Arrangements and FinancingPlan                              ....................... 16

F.   Project Risks and Mitigating Measures .........................................                    18
G.   Terms and Conditions for Project Financing.................................                        19


Annexes
  Annex 1.DetailedDescriptiono f Project Components ......................                              20
  Annex 2.Results Framework and Monitoring ...................................                          21
  Annex 3.Summary o f Estimated Project Costs ...................................                       23
  Annex 4.FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements ....25
  Annex 5.Procurement Arrangements ..................................................                   32
  Annex 6.Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements....................                                35
  Annex 7.Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members..............36
  Annex 8.Economic and Financial Analysis...............................                                37


                                                   1




IDate: October 11, 2007                                       Team Leader: Lisa Bhansali
 Country Director: Mats Karlsson                              Sectors: General public administration
 Sector Manager: Anand Rajaram                                sector (100%)
 Project ID:P109195                                           Themes: Administrative and civil
                                                              service reform (P)
                                                              Environmental Category: Not required




 Total Amount: US$2.3 m                                Expected implementation period: Three years
 Expectedeffectiveness date: November 1,2007           Expectedhevised closing date: October 1, 2010




1Short Description: The project will, o n an emergency basis, assist the Government to recruit




 Source                                                 Local                Foreign         I   Total
 Borrower
 Total IBRD/IDA
 Trust Funds                                            2.00                   0.30              2.30
 Others
 Total                                                  2.00                   0.30              2.30

                                                  2008       2009        2010        2011        2012
 Total IBRD/IDA
 Trust Funds                                       1.oo       1-00       0.30
 Does the emergency operation require any exceptions from Bank policies?              Yes [ ] N o [XI
 Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                          Yes [ ] N o [XI


 Are there any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                      Yes [XI o [ ]
                                                                                               N
 What safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?                                        None


 Significant, non-standardconditions, if any:
 None

                                                            2


A.         Introduction

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Regional Vice President to provide a
grant in an amount of US$2.3m to Liberia for the Emergency Senior Executive Service
Project. The project i s funded by the Trust Fundfor Liberia (TFLIB), a single-purpose trust
fund, financed by IBRD net income, approved by the Executive Directors in 2004l. The
original purpose o f the TFLIB was to allow Bank engagement in the post conflict period,
particularly, while Liberia remained in arrears to the Bank. The TFLIB covered three main
areas o f intervention, namely: community-driven development, infrastructure, and economic
management. The proposed SES project i s anchored in the Bank's overall civil service
reform effort including a US$1 million Civil Service Reform Project currently being funded
by the LICUS Trust Fundthat is described in more detail below. These efforts will also be
complemented by a forthcoming Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project
(funded by IDA) which includes a component that strengthens early reform and capacity
building efforts.

2.       The proposed grant would help finance the costs associated with rebuilding the public
service o f Liberia. The public service has suffered a severe decline in its effectiveness and
self-esteem leading to a massive loss o f qualified and skilled professional after more than a
decade o f the civil war. The proposed support will help respond to the situation in the short-
term by the recruitment o f seasoned professionals from within the country and from among
the many qualified Liberian professionals living in the Diaspora and placing them in the
public service on performance contract terms to build capacity and provide strategic
leadership and management services in selected ministries and agencies.

3.       It is expected that at the end of the project, the process o f transforming the civil
service into a more professional, effective and accountable institution o f the Government o f
Liberia will be well underway, with those in SES positions helping to drive forward the
reform process. At the same time, the SES will materially improve the Government's
capacity to develop policy and begin organizing staff to deliver services.

4.       Although the project i s innovative - the Bank has not financed a distinct class o f civil
servants before, nor formally linked payment o f Civil Service (CS) salaries to the
development o f a CS reform program - it remains within the ambit o f existing OP/BP
guidelines, which allow financing o f civil service salaries provided there i s a clear
developmental gain.

5.       Various development partners are supporting the implementation o f the Senior
Executive Service through technical advice and finding. Notable among them are the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) (US$l .O million), Greece (US$O.1 million), U S
(US$1.O million), Humanity United (US$1.O million) and the World Bank (US$2.3 million).
Other development partners such as the Department for International Development o f the
United Kingdom (DffD) provide technical advice through a civil service reform project.
UNDP has been the lead agency so far indeveloping the concept o f the SES, on behalf o f the
Government, and has offered to manage the project on behalf o f all the contributing parties,
through the creation o f a special SES trust fund, and being the main interlocutor with the
government on day-to-day project management matters. The grant application has been put
together on the basis o f UNDP continuing to play that role assisting the Civil Service Agency

' SeeWorldBankAssistanceto Liberia: ProposedEstablishment of a Trust Fundfor Liberia(IDA/vR2004-0211)Aug. 9, 2004

(CSA) in day-to-day management, though Bank resources will be disbursed through the
Project Finance Management Unit (PFMU) in the Ministry of Finance, which handles other
Bank resources, and not through the SES trust fund, for financial control reasons.            In
addition, the Bank i s supporting civil service reform through a US$900,000 LICUS Trust
Fund grant, which will pay for a number o f diagnostic studies that will feed into the
preparation and adoption by the GoL o f a comprehensive civil service reform strategy, o f
which the SES scheme will form part. The Bank i s planning to support civil service reform
further, through the preparation o f an Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project
(EGIRP) which will have a component for Human Resource (HR) management. And, in a
parallel Liberia Trust Fundgrant proposal, funds are being requested for the installation o f an
Integrated Financial management Information System, which will have a HR records and
payroll module.

                                               4


B.        Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and
          Rationale for Proposed Bank Emergency Project.

6.     Liberia's decades o f poor governance and 14 years o f conflict have had appalling
social consequences. It has been estimated that almost a million people fled from cities,
towns and villages to other neighboring countries. In addition, over 300,000 people were
internally displaced within the country.

7.      The World Bank and UNDP jointly undertook a needs assessment for Liberia in
December 2003. Following this, a Results Focused Transitional Framework (RFTF) was
prepared which defined the most urgent needs. The transitional government at the time used
the RFTF as a strategic plan under the management of a RFTFImplementationManagement
Committee (RIMCO). Despite efforts within the framework o f the RFTF, economic
governance remained a major challenge, little was done to address the problems o f the civil
service, further arrears o f pay accumulated and patronage appointments continued. With the
encouragement o f its development partners, the transitional government adopted the
Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP) which was backed
by a resolution o f the United Nations Security Council inJune 2005. GEMAP's objective is
to improve economic governance and financial management by putting in place the basic
systems o f public financial management, and providing, on a temporary basis, the specialized
financial management staff to oversee them. GEMAP's key components include revenue
improvement, budgeting and expenditure management and adopted measures to strengthen
fiscal administration, transparency and accountability. GEMAP thus laid the foundations for
the commencement o f government functioning, and, in turn, the normalization o f relations
with international financial institutions. However, while it began bringing order to the
government's payroll, tackling the civil service itself was beyond its remit, a challenge that,
inturn, requiredamoreunifiedand determined political leadership.

8.      Historic presidential democratic elections were held in OctoberAVovember 2005
resulting in the election o f Mrs. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf as the Head o f State and her
subsequent inauguration on January 6,2006. The new government embarked on an ambitious
150 day reform program. The new government also endorsed the GEMAP as a step in
enhancing governance and strengthening economic management. Similarly, the Government
has reached understandings on a new Staff Monitoring Program (SMP) with the International
Monetary Fund(IMF) to year end 2007. The program i s consistent with the i-PRSP and aims
to further improve economic governance, public financial management, tax and customs
administration and the healtho fthe banking sector.

9.      The government constituted the Liberia Reconstruction and Development Committee
(LRDC) as the main agency and overarching mechanism to strategize, develop, coordinate
and monitor the implementationof national reconstruction program. The LRDC i s chaired by
the President, and consists o f key ministers and development partners. It i s organized around
four pillars namely (a) Enhancing National Security (b) Revitalizing Economic Growth; (c)
Strengthening Governance and the Rule o f Law; and, (d) Rehabilitating Infrastructure and
Delivering Basic Services. Under pillar "c", the GoL has beguntackling civil service reform.

Public sector issues

10.     The country has suffered state capture and collapse, and its institutions have been
eroded through corruption, mismanagement and disregard for the rule o f law by successive

                                                  5


regimes. The long-term consequences o f the civil war were enormous. Civil institutions were
destroyed; systems o f checks and balances were dismantled. As o f mid-2005, the country had
an external debt burden estimated at US$3.7 billion, which i s equivalent to 800 per cent of
Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Almost three quarters o f the population live below the
poverty line o f 1USD/day.

11.     The effect of the civil war i s visible in all sectors. The public service i s not an
exception. The public service has suffered a severe decline in its morale and effectiveness the
consequence o f a massive loss o f qualified and skilled professional, the severe erosion o f pay,
and the collapse o f public administration processes, destruction o f government facilities and
looting o f equipment, and loss o f records. At the same time, principles o f merit and fairness
inrecruitment and promotionwere replacedbypatronage, and many civil servants today are
occupying positions they are unqualified to hold. Absenteeism, payroll fraud and petty
corruption are rife. Nonetheless, the civil service has a critical role inhelping bring about the
post conflict recovery, reconstruction and growth o f the economy yet presently i s incapable
o f delivering the necessary critical and essential services to the public. The iPRSP notes that
the dysfunctional public service i s in need o f both short-term change management as well as
more comprehensive medium to long-term reform.

12.     The Government o f Liberia (GoL) has laid out a vision for a new Liberia which
encompasses consolidating peace, enhancing justice, deepening democracy, ensuring food
security, promoting human development and setting the nation on the path for long term
growth and development.

Government strategy

13.     As a first step, GoL through a consultative process prepared an interim poverty
reduction strategy paper (iPRSP) for the period 2006-2008. A full poverty reduction strategy
paper (PRSP) i s under preparation. The iPRSP i s centered on consolidation o f national peace
for sustained poverty reducing economic growth and development. Issues to be tackled inthe
iPRSP are clustered under four main pillars - (i)     enhancing national security, (ii)
                                                                                     revitalizing
the economy, (iii)   strengthening governance and the rule o f law, and (iv) rehabilitating
infrastructure and delivering basic services.

14.     Under the general umbrella o f the iPRSP, the Government, with the help o f
development partners, has begun addressing the challenge o f civil service reform. A number
o f important steps have been taken. First, as revenues have built, the Government has been
able to clear some o f the arrears o f pay inherited from the transitional government. Second, it
has been able to make small but symbolically important improvements to civil service pay.
When the new Government came to power, monthly pay for most civil servants (apart from
allowances) was around US$15 per month. Last year it was raised to US$30, and from July
2007 to just over US$50. While this still falls short o f a living wage, and is clearly
insufficient to incentivize staff to turnup regularly for work (low skilled workers inthe NGO
sector are paid about US$200 per month), it has signaled to employees the direction o f the
Government's intentions.       Third, the Government has begun the process o f removing
"ghosts" from the civil service payroll, managed by the Ministry of Finance. Fourth, some
restructuring has begun in selected ministries.        Fifth, efforts have begun rebuilding the
capacity o f civil service training institutions like the Liberian Institute o f Public
Administration. The experience o f restructuring in a limited number o f ministries (e.g.:
MOD,Office of President, Ministryo fHealth-ongoing) hasbeenapositive one.

                                                  6



15.     However, these efforts, while necessary components o f a civil service reform strategy,
do little inthe short runto address the critical lack o f capacity inthe civil service, particularly
in the ranks of managers and senior professionals.           In most ministries, while there are
ministers and assistant ministers, and directors-general actively trying to cope with the
challenges of their sectors, there i s a dearth o f expertise at the next level down - effectively,
the highest levels o f the civil service, the group that suffered most during the civil war, with
many quitting government for jobs in the private sector or in internationally funded NGOs
and aid agencies, or leaving the country entirely.

16.     The Government's solution to this critical high level manpower leadership gap i s to
create a Senior Executive Service, and to recruit Liberians on short term performance
contracts to fill up to 100 critical positions across ministries. The details o f the scheme are
described below. After three years, the SES would be integrated into the rest o f the civil
service structure, with the help of the SES, which in the meantime would have been
reformed, with surplus staff and ghosts eliminated, mandates redefined and new ministerial
structures put inplace.

Donor strategy

17.     Inbroad terms development partners' strategy hinges on moving the country from a
post conflict situation to consolidating peace and security, economic recovery and
reconstruction. A select group o f donors, notably, the EU, DffD, UNDP, USAID and the
Bank, are giving support to civil service reform and the rebuilding o f legal and judicial
capacity, recognizing that until capacity i s restored in these key functions o f government,
sustained recovery i s not possible. An immediate goal o f the SES i s filling highlevel capacity
gaps in key ministries, without which little will happen. However, the SES provides an
opportunity for the Bank to work with this set o f donors, together with GoL counterparts, to
assist the latter develop a robust civil service reform strategy, and help the Government
implement it using SES staff as catalysts for reform in the ministries and departments to
which they are appointed.       In this connection, it is worth mentioning that the Program
Implementation Committee (PIC) (on which the Bank sits) i s in the process o f having its
oversight mandate enlarged, to embrace the development and implementation o f a broader
CS reform strategy. In this way, the goals o f an immediate increase inkey ministry capacity
and more longer term reform are beingbrought together.

18.     Since a comprehensive civil service reform strategy i s still being worked out in
Liberia, donor interventions in capacity building have been in the context o f sector
interventions.    A concerted effort at institutional reform and capacity building was
undertaken in the Ministry o f Defence and the Ministry o f State, President's Office. Here,
mandates were reviewed with the help o f USAID-funded consultants, new organizational
structures and staffingplans were developed, and existing staffwere selectedback againstjob
descriptions on competitive, competency based criteria.          Once re-selected, staff benefited
from intensive donor supported capacity building. A similar process is under way in the
Ministry of Health. What these experiences show is that with a focusing of mandates,
shedding o f surplus staff, training and improved working conditions, coupled with responsive
donor support, productivity can be greatly improved.

                                                 7



Coordination mechanisms

19.     Compared with many other situations, there are extraordinarily close and effective
coordination arrangements in Liberia between the office o f the Special Representative of the
UN Secretary-General and the other major bilateral and multilateral donors active in the
country. This makes for immediate exchange o f information on new developments and on
the spot coordination o f development partners' responses with the Government.              On the
latter's side, the critical mechanism i s the Liberia Reconstruction and Development
Committee, and on the donors' side the Liberia Partners' Forum. Inthe area o f civil service
reform, the Bank participates in periodic reviews o f the DfID financed (Civil Service
Capacity Building Project (CISCAP), and, with UNDP, i s a member o f the Government run
SES Implementation Committee.            This enables the Bank to be influential in both the
launching o f the SES and the design o f the overall civil service reform program and broader
capacity buildinginitiatives.

20.     The many years o f neglect and decline caused by the political instability has resulted
insevere decline inthe effectiveness o fthe Liberiancivil service. The effect is a massive loss
o f qualified and skilled staff, The estimated 35,000 members o f staff o f the public service are
poorly motivated. Wages are very low (barely more than US$50 per month for qualified
graduate positions, excluding allowances) and incentives for qualified technical staff to join
the civil service are non-existent. There i s a missingupper and middle class o f technical staff
to carry out the day-to-day functioning of the government. The very few qualified staff that
remained in post during the civil war were effectively de-skilled due to the long period o f
inactivity and the breakdowno f normal administrative processes. This means that the country
faces an enormous task rebuilding a basic capability in the Civil Service to function, to
reliably perform the routine tasks o f policy making and public administration, and deliver
public services. Whilst highpriority has been given to rehabilitating training institutions and
their programs, o f necessity this will take time, and there i s the need to fill key leadership
positions in ministries and departments immediately below ministers, on an urgent basis, to
lead in the review o f departmental mandates, champion the reform process in the civil
service, and ensure that some basic routines o f policy making and service delivery are
undertaken.

21.     The Government prepared a vision paper for civil service reform for the Liberia
Partners Forum in February 2007.             This envisages a thorough review o f mandates,
eliminating those that are no longer relevant, reducing the number o f ministries and
departments, eliminating payroll "ghosts",       shedding surplus staff, rebuilding skills, and
improving over time, pay and working conditions. The vision paper now needs to be turned
into a more comprehensive and operational civil service reform strategy. As the G o L sees it,
a key part o f the way forward i s the introduction o f a Senior Executive Service (SES). The
aim i s to begin a process o f developing a new generation o f public service leaders. The SES
scheme i s a result o f the desire o f the Government o f Liberia to achieve its strategic goals and
development outcomes ina more rapid manner.

22.     The scheme will operate through the open recruitment o f 100 senior professionals and
managers, in three batches over the next 3 years - recruitment o f the first batch o f 21
positions i s underway. To ensure arms length selection and professional assessment o f
candidates, the selection process will be placed in the hands o f a qualified HR management
firm, which will assess candidates against both a common set of core leadership and

                                                8


management competencies and carefully prepared individualjob descriptions. Those eligible
will be existing civil servants with suitable qualifications, Liberian professionals and
managers in the private sector, and Liberian citizens who are presently part o f the Diaspora
outside the country. Salaries will be a multiple o f present civil service pay equivalents,
broadly equivalent to amounts earned for comparable positions in the Liberian private and
civil society sector. Successful candidates will be appointed on annually reviewed contract
terms for up to three years, with performance requirements, based on the job description and,
as appropriate, any strategic plan developed for the department in which the SES officer i s
placed. SES staff who do not perform will be dismissed. Overall supervision of the SES
scheme i s the responsibility o f the Civil Service Department, which has recently created a
special SES coordination unit.

23.      The Government views the SES as a scheme that will jump start capacity buildingin
the civil service by deploying a core group o f skilled professionals and managers
immediatelybelow ministers that i s capable o f developing policy and helping the department
to implement it. (Currently, because o f the dearth o f competent high level civil servants,
ministers frequently find themselves in executive roles). At the same time, the SES will play
a key role inhelping the ministries and departments they are placed in under go restructuring
and reform, consistent with the Civil Service Reform Strategy. In this way, the SES i s
designed to address both short term, and longer term capacity buildingobjectives.

24.      Over time, the SES, as a scheme, will be merged into the broader civil service reform
effort, as this i s shaped over time. One possibility i s to use the SES model to pioneer the use
o f performance contracts for all senior civil service positions. The first 21 SES positions
identified have been chosen with reference to I-PRS program priorities, with a mandate to
move forward key poverty reductionprograms. At the same time, the selected staff (and those
due to fill the remaining 79 SES positions yet to be identified) are expected to have a
mandate to lead reforms in their respective departments. Obviously, it will be important that
the broader Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP) proceeds apace with the implementation
o f the SES, otherwise the integration o f the latter into a reformed CS structure will not take
place. Indeed, while one objective o f the SES i s to give ministries some capacity to begin
delivering services, another objective i s to put experienced senior staff in place who can help
ministers implement ministerial reform programs. A key requirement will be for the key
ministries to be restructured in the coming three years, with revised mandates, new staffing
structures with surplus positions eliminated, job descriptions, and a new pay and grading
system, so that the SES, which will start as an enclave system, can be mainstreamed into the
rest o f the civil service.

25.      Key issues, in this connection are the initial case for Bank financing o f recurrent
costs, followed by their sustainability after the period o f external financing ends. The Bank
has responded to the GoL's request to support the SES with grant finance because o f the
critical role the SES could play in providing the leadership and coordination necessary for
reform and capacity building in key government ministries, departments and agencies. The
SES, inthe Bank's view, could have a powerful developmental pay off, thatjustifies external
financing. There are also strong tactical reasons for donors supporting the SES.           Direct
financing through the budget o f a scheme entailing competitive pay for only a small group o f
civil servants would be controversial in the legislature, with unpredictable outcomes and
significant fiscal risks.    In addition, while domestic revenues continue to grow, GoL
financing o f the SES (less than 5% o f the current wage bill) would mean fewer resources for
other priority areas.

                                                9



26.     The sustainability o f the SES, once the period o f external support i s over has been
carefully examined. While domestic revenues are expected to continue growing strongly
over the medium term as both the revenue base expands and tax administration improves, the
critical issue i s partly whether SES salaries themselves can be financed through the budget,
and partly whether they can be integrated into a new structure o f government o f pay which i s
more differentiated that the existing scales, and rewards technical, professional and
managerial grades in a more competitive way than presently. This in turn depends on the
implementation of a robust civil service reform strategy which looks critically at mandates,
structures, staffing levels and pay. Through an already approved grant for civil service
reform, the Bank is assisting the GoL develop a new pay and employment strategy, and i s
supporting the functional reviews and HR management and control systems that are needed
as the GoL goes forward creating a new civil service. In this sense, sustainability of SES
recurrent costs over the medium term i s intimately tied into whether the Government can
succeed in bringing into being its vision o f a more compact, better paid and higher skilled
civil service.

27.     Overall, the project entails substantial risks while promising high rewards if the
strategy o f capacity building represented by the project i s successful.       These risks are
elaborated in the section below on Project Risks and Mitigating Measures, which addresses
issues like patronage appointments, triggering unsustainable wage bill demands from the rest
o f the CS, and bureaucratic resistance to SES outsiders. As noted, the potential gains are
large - the prospect o f catalyzing reform inindividual ministries, within a broad civil service
reform framework, developed under the oversight o f the PIC, in which the Bank i s a
participant. Contributing to the project's finances not only allows the Bank to support the
high level capacity effort inherent in the SES. It also provides the Bank an opportunity to
constructively shape the country's overall civil service reform program. Furthermore, in
discussions with the GoL on the design parameters o f the scheme, the Bank has been able to
draw on its global experience o f financing highlevel capacity buildinginterventions in other
countries. Inpreparing the project, account was taken o f the Bank's experience with paying
the salaries o f civil servants and advisers in schemes in other post conflict countries, such as
Afghanistan, Georgia, East Timor, Ecuador and Bolivia, as well as the experience next door
in Sierra Leone. The team also looked at the experience of Tanzania with its Selected
Accelerated Salary Enhancement scheme. None o f these countries i s exactly comparable to
Liberia, but each has provided lessons which have been incorporated into the design o f the
present project. The team has also consulted during the past year with the Bank's foremost
specialists in post-conflict civil service rebuilding, and taken their advice into account.
(These lessons are summarized in a companion Quality and Global Knowledge Note).
Among lessons reflected in the present project are: (i)   importance o f any scheme to pay CS
salaries to be part o f a more comprehensive civil service reform strategy;        (ii)ensuring
capacity o f the CSA to manage the scheme i s strengthened; and, (iii)  early development o f a
mediumterm pay and employment strategy.

Co-financing

28.      GoL inconsultation with development partners have secured a total o f US$5.4 million
made from the following partners:

                                                10



             Development Partners                                         (US$ inmillion)
             UNDP                                                                 1.oo
             Greece
             us                                                                   0.10
                                                                                  1.oo
             Humanity United                                                      1.oo
             World Bank                                                           2.30
            1FundingGap (to be providedby other development              I        2.25       I
             partners
             TOTAL                                                                7.65

29.    The total cost o f the scheme i s US$7.65 million. There i s therefore a financing gap o f
US$2.25 millionwhich the GoL has committed itselfto funding. Should the GoL not be able
to meet its full share o f the anticipated costs, the size o f the SES would be correspondingly
reduced.

C.     BankResponse and Strategy: The Project

Briefdescriptionof Bank'sstrategy of emergency support

30.    Before the advent o f the war in Liberia, the country was close to becoming a middle
income country. However, the many years o f conflict resulted in significant decline in living
standards. Liberia i s currently supported by major international development partners to
rebuild the country and promote peace in the sub-region. Since 2003 when the CPA was
signed the Bank has been engaged in active support on economic governance, institutional
reform, infrastructure development, and community empowerment within a strong multi-
donor approach.

31.    The Bank's Executive Directors discussed an Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for Liberia
inJune 2007. It supports three pillars o fthe government's i-PRSP, namely infrastructure and
basic services, economic revitalization, and governance and the rule o f law. Under the
governance pillar, the Bank's support i s supporting broad public sector and institutional
reform including - a Civil Service and Governance Support Program (CSGSP), an Economic
Governance and Institutional Reform Project (EGIRP), the Emergency Senior Executive
Service Project (ESESP), and a Judicial Reform Project.

32.    The Civil Service and Governance Support Program i s chiefly aimed at helping the
Civil Service Agency move forward with articulating and implementing its civil service
reform strategy, by providing funds for diagnostic studies, functional reviews o f ministries,
the development o f a pay and employment strategy, and staff training.            This is a vital
complement to the Bank's support o f the SES. The EGIRP will mainly provide support to
procurement and financial management reform, but i s likely also to have a component
financing the installation o f a computerized payroll and HR management system.

1.     ProjectDevelopment Objectives

33.    The development objective o f the Emergency SES Project (ESESP) i s to provide
Government with the immediate assistance needed to develop a cadre o f technical and
managerial public servants who are well motivated to fill an immediate high level capacity
gap, while at the same time assist in transforming the civil service into a more professional,

                                                   11


effective and accountable institution o f the Government o f Liberia. This will be done through
the recruitment o f seasoned professionals from within the country and from among the many
qualified Liberian professionals living in the Diaspora. This objective is fully consistent with
the current Government's development agenda and i s aligned with the objectives o f the
ongoing support under TFLIB and InterimStrategy Note (Interim Strategy Note).

2.      Summary of ProjectComponents

Component1. Recruitment o fmembers for the SES scheme

34.     This component involves the recruitment o f members for the SES scheme. Funding
will be used to pay for the wages o f members o f the SES for three years. It i s planned to
recruit a minimum o f 100 SES members. A total o f 21 positions will be recruited as the first
wave o f recruitment. H o w the funding o f positions will be shared between the contributing
donors will be determined through the PIC. Staff recruited will be in three levels with the
following rates:


            Tier/Level          Numberof Staff         Salary level/month/person
                                       (A)                    (B) (inUS$)
         First                          30                       3,000
         Second                         30                       2,000
         Third                          40                       1,000
         Total                         100


Component2. Management o f the SES scheme

35.     This component would be used to procure basic furniture and office equipment to
support and strengthen the capacity o f CSA as the oversight civil service institution to
eventually manage the SES program at the end o f the project. Inaddition, the component will
be used to pay for travel and relocation expenses, workshops and seminars to be organized on
the SES scheme, exit package, and monitoring and evaluation o f the scheme. Again, these
costs will be shared between donors, as determined through the PIC. The proposed use o f
Bank funds i s set forth in Annex 3.          Amongst the items the Bank will finance i s an
independent impact assessment o f the scheme.

Eligibilityfor Processingunder OP/BP 8.0

36.     The project i s part o f the pipeline o f emergency projects included inthe I S N discussed
by the Board inJune 2007. The SES will fill a critical highlevel gap inthe civil service at a
much faster rate than if traditional capacity building methods (e.g.: training existing staff
first requires re-building o f training institutions, reaching a motivating level o f pay by across
the board pay reform takes many years) alone were resorted to. If the scheme works as
intended, it should have a multiplier effect by accelerating the restructuring o f key ministries.

37.     The best financing option, a consortium o f donors, is the proposed one.               The
Government's revenue position i s too weak to meet the full costs o f the scheme. With arrears
still to be settled, Liberia has not yet reached the point o f regular Bank lending, and a
conventional project financing civil service salaries would be controversial.               Shared

                                                12


financing, using Bank grant funds, with other development partners participating, and
keeping Bank exposure moderate, i s an appropriate financing option for an important but by
no means risk free operation o f this nature.

Consistencywith Country Strategy (CAS or ISN)

38.     The proposed activities are consistent with the Liberia ISN, which acknowledge the
weakness o f the civil service institutions and therefore recognizes the need to strengthen and
build human and institutional capacities within the civil service as a priority within the
governance and rule o f law pillar. Getting the machinery o f government to operate at a
modicum o f effectiveness underpins the entire country strategy. While helping to fund a SES
o f 100 managers and senior professionals will not in itself add greatly to service delivery
capacity, it provides the government with a lever for change it i s determined to use.

Expected Outcomes

39.     The expected outcomes from the project are (i)        Discernable improvement in the
capacity o f ministries and departments where SES staff are posted to make policy, regulate
and deliver services. (ii)Evidence that selected ministries have drawn up strategic plans,
reviewed mandates and are implementing restructuring programs with staff lists, job
descriptions and re-selection o f staff, consistent with the comprehensive CS reform strategy
that the Bank and other partners are assisting the GoL to prepare.

40.     The expectedoutputs are:

            (i) The Senior Executive Service scheme is fully operational, with an
                   established system o f careful screening o f candidates and selection,
                   drawing up o f performance contracts and annual performance monitoring,
                   coordinated by the CSA.
            (ii) SES staff are identified and recruited to the scheme, and have an
                   immediate impact on the capacity o f Ministries, Departments and
                   Agencies (MDAs) where they are posted.
            (iii)  Participating ministries and agencies have each developed and begun
                   implementing a restructuring plan based on a redefined mandate, new
                   organizational structure and matching staffingplans.

41.     The above outputs are linked to the achievement o f the development objectives o f the
project.

        Intermediate indicators are:

        1.      Number o f SES positions recruited against clear job descriptions and placed in
                keyministries inthree tranches underperformance contracts.
        2.      Number o f ministries which have begun a thorough restructuring and reform
                process.

42.     The expectation is that design and implementation o f the broader CSRP will have
progressed to the point where the SES, after three years, can be mainstreamed into overall
civil service management (though perhaps retaining elements o f the performance contract)
and the Government i s able to take over the full costs o f annual salaries, either with its own

                                                13


revenues, or, possibly, with the assistance o f general budget support, if this becomes
available.

43.     Source o f Financing. This project i s fundedby the Trust Fund for Liberia. InAugust
2004, the Board approved this single purpose fund, managed by the International
Development Association and financed by a US$25 million grant from IBRD surplus. The
key areas o f intervention include: i)infrastructure; ii)economic management and public
sector reform; and iii)community-driven development. The SES grant qualifies for funding
under the public sector reform category. TFLIB projects are prepared using the Bank's
emergency rapid response procedures (OP/BP 8.00).


D.      Appraisalof ProjectActivities, Benefits and Risks

Economic

44.     It is always difficult to measure the economic consequences of civil service reform
projects. While costs are quantifiable (SES salaries and scheme overheads), the benefits are
indirect, ultimately seen in improved policy making capacity, more effective regulation and
improved service delivery. Ultimately, the economic justification o f the SES i s its
contribution to a better functioning government achieved through implementation o f a well
designed and robust civil service reform program. Presently, government i s dysfunctional in
multiple ways, and unless this changes, sustainable recovery (and peace and security) will not
be achieved inthe long run.

45.     The overheads o f the scheme are admittedly high (administrative costs are around
20% o f total costs - though the ratio i s much less for the Bank financed portion). There are
several reasons for this. Firstly, there will be re-location costs if SES positions are filled by
diaspora candidates. Second, separation packages may need to be paid if incumbents elect to
compete and are not selected. Third, the scheme departs from normal CS practice to engage
HR consultants to undertake the screening o f candidates - a necessary step ifpatronage risks
are to be minimized and a truly competency based selection process i s to ensure. Fourthly,
provision i s made for an independent evaluation o f the scheme, to extract lessons and apply
them to future highlevel staffing policy making.

Technical

46.     Technically, the scheme i s appropriately designed. There undoubtedly are Liberians
with the skills the Government needs residing either inLiberia or inthe Diaspora, which the
scheme could attract into government. While SES salaries are much better than existing CS
scales, they are competitive with the salaries paid by internationally funded NGOs. The
selection process that has been designed outsources the screening o f candidates, and this i s a
prudent solution given the background o f patronage appointments. Performance contracts
will be tricky to draw up in the Liberian context, but the concept is an appealing one which
could be made to work. Oversight by the contributing donors through the PIC should ensure
that the scheme i s run with sufficient rigor. Overhead costs for the project as a whole are
admittedly high (over 20%), but this i s justified by the special management arrangements
(such as the use of HR consultants to screen candidates and design and monitor the
performance contracts) to ensure that the scheme mns as intended inan environment inwhich
CSA capacity isweak andrisks of subvertingthe merit basedprinciples of the SES are high.

                                                14



Institutional

47.    The Civil Service Agency i s responsible for managing the SES scheme, and this i s
appropriate to its mandate (which combines some o f the functions o f a public service
commission with a civil service ministry). The CSA presently lacks the capacity to manage
the scheme with existing staff, but has wisely recruited a SES coordinator and created a
management unit within the CSA. Use o f HR consultants to help with the screening and
selection o f candidates i s a sensible measure. Bank resources will help buildCSA's capacity
to manage the SES scheme.

48.    The financial management aspects o f the project will be handled by the Project
Finance Management Unit in the Ministry o f Finance working closely with the Civil Service
Agency, with day-to-day support from the United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
Office inLiberia. Onrequest o f the Government o f Liberia, the Bank will be disbursing funds
directly to the PFMU, which, in turn, will ensure that SES appointees to the positions the
Bank will be financing get included in the government wide payroll system managed out o f
the Ministryo f Finance.

Fiduciary

49.    Channeling the Bank's grant funds through the PFMU would ensure that the
arrangements that have worked satisfactorily for existing Bank programs, like GEMAP and
other Liberia Infrastructure Projects, will be applied to the SES grant. The PFMUi s a central
unit that has been established in the Ministry of Finance for disbursement, accounting and
reporting o f donor funded projects. The PFMUhas an interim unit manager with international
accounting qualifications acceptable to the Bank, a project accountant and an internal auditor.
Selection of a permanent unit manager (international) as well as additional accountant, a
procurement specialist and an internal auditor with regional experience i s underway. After a
competitive selection process a project accountant has been selected, and an offer has been
made to him for taking up this position. The selection o f the procurement specialist and the
internal auditor i s underway. The PFMU i s responsible for ensuring: (a) satisfactory
implementation o f activities included in all contracts including adherence to World Bank
standards with regards to environmental and social issues; (b) that financial and accounting
records are maintained to a satisfactory standard; and (c) that financial statements and reports
are prepared intimely manner for management and audit purposes.

50.    Although UNDP has set up a SES trust fund through which its own resources for the
SES (US$l.O million) are being channeled, the Bank has decided to channel its resources
through the PFMU reflecting the need to have Ministry o f Finance to be closely involved in
the implementation o f the SES. InLiberia, the PFMU will be working closely with the Civil
Service Agency, which i s running the overall SES scheme, and has created a special unit for
this purpose. The channeling of Bank funds through the PFMU in the Ministry o f Finance
takes advantage o f an existing mechanism staffed with officers who understand Bank
disbursement and reporting requirements, and have already in place adequate financial
control mechanisms, which the CSA lacks. Inturn, the Ministryo f Finance also operates the
government payroll system, through which SES appointees would be paid.

51.     Due to the 14 years o f civil war in the country, the legal and institutional frameworks
for Public procurement were completely destroyed and the Government of Liberia's

                                              15


procurement policies and practices lacked the basic principles o f accountability, economy,
efficiency and transparency. In the absence o f a CPAR, the UnitedNations and the World
Bank carried out a Needs Assessment under their Economic Management Assistance
Program for Liberia, which determined that Public Procurement Reform was critical to
Liberia's post-conflict transition. Following this assessment, the GoL embarked on the
Public Procurement Reform, starting with the enactment o f the Public Procurement and
Concessions Act (PPCC) in 2005. The Act i s comprehensive and governs all government
contracts, including those that may be financed out of fiscal resources, e.g. concessions and
donor funds, and mandates the formation o f Procurement Committee and Procuring Unit
within each Procuring Entity. Currently, the functions o f these two institutions are yet to be
articulated and they are mostly nominal. Inaddition, control mechanisms that provide checks
and balances within the Liberian procurement system remain a challenge. In reality, a
framework for independent and credible procurement audits and internal quality controls are
yet to be developed to accompany the Act. The Act also established the Public Procurement
and Concessions Commission (PPCC), which i s charged with the implementation o f
Government's Public Procurement and Concessions Reform (PPCR).            The reform is being
supported by the Liberia Public Procurement Reform Project (LICUS TF Grant # TF056754).

Environment

52.     The Environmental category o f the proposed project i s C as it will not have any
adverse effect on the environment.

Social

53.     The proposed project could lead to some limited social impacts. Staff currently in
positions to be occupied by members o f the SES scheme will have the opportunity to
compete for SES selection, and if not chosen, they would have to be re-located or separated
with compensation. However, for the most part the positions identified for filling by the first
batch o f SES candidates are presently unfilled, so the adverse social consequences are
unlikely to be great. Should staff be made redundant under the scheme and Bank financing
sought for severance payments (no call i s envisaged) Bank rules on severance pay financing
would be followed.

54.     The Bank hitherto has not financed the creation o f a SES, so this would be a departure
from normal practice. However, experience from other post conflict countries shows that
skill gaps in the civil service are a critical constraint to sustained recovery, and that
conventional capacity buildingstrategies alone are unlikely to yield the desired results within
an acceptable time frame. Experience also shows that, notwithstanding extended conflict,
skills do exist in such countries, but due to the collapse o f working conditions within
government, most o f these skills are to be found outside government, working either for aid
agencies, international NGOs, or the private sector.      There are also a large number o f
Liberians living overseas, who might be induced to return if working conditions in
government improved.

Safeguards

55.     N o safeguard policies would be triggered.

Exception to Bank policy

                                                  16



56.      The project does entail the Bank paying salaries o f serving civil servants. For a long
time this was outside the ambit o f what could be financed. However, operational guidelines
were changed two years ago, and the Bank may now finance salaries o f civil servants,
provided the developmental benefits are established. The project i s thus fully compliant with
OP 6.00 and OP 8.00 on financing o f recurrent costs. As noted above, the argument is made
that without donor financing o f the SES, the almost complete absence o f implementation
capacity in ministries and departments will mean that the organizational effort to get civil
service reform and capacity buildingunder way will not happen.


E.       ImplementationArrangements and FinancingPlan

57.      The overall SES scheme will be supervised by a Project Implementation Committee
comprising the CSA, the Office o f the President, the Ministry o f Finance, and the principal
financing agencies, notably UNDP, USAID and the Bank. Day-to-day support to the CSA in
areas like identification o f positions, preparation o f selection criteria, and assessment o f
candidates, will be provided by UNDP, reporting to and under the overall guidance o f the
PIC. On request o f the Government o f Liberia, the Bank will disburse funds directly to the
PFMU inthe Ministryo f Finance, which will provide financial reports to the Bank. The CSA
will provide narrative reports on the progress o f implementationo f the overall SES project.

58.      As a result o f over a decade o f civil war inLiberia and the neglect o f the civil service,
local capacity i s insufficient for efficient and effective execution by the recipient. The Civil
Service Agency which i s the natural home for the execution o f the proposed project lack the
institutional, technical and fiduciary capacity to execute the project.

FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements

59.      The PFMU in the Ministry o f Finance will be responsible for the financial
management o f the Bank's grant to the SES scheme. The PFMU will open and maintain a
Designated Account (DA), with a Commercial Bank acceptable to IDA, on behalf o f SES
(CSA) for the project.

60.      The initial advance will be disbursed into the DA, operated by the PFMU. Subsequent
disbursements will be transaction-based for the first year and transit, upon favourable
capacity assessment, to report-based disbursement inthe second year.

61.      The PFMU will arrange for SES officers funded by the Bank to be paid through the
Government payroll system, operated by the Ministryof Finance.

62.      The PFMU will arrange for an independent audit to be carried out at the end o f each
year.

ProcurementArrangements

63.      The SES Unit in the CSA, with UNDP support, and working closely with the PFMU,
will be responsible for the procurement o f services under the grant. Inpractical terms, this
entails the identification o f SES positions, the drawing up o f job descriptionsherms o f
reference, and the advertisement for qualified candidates. Approval o f the positions and the

                                              17


process o f competitive assessment will be under the overall control o f the PIC, on which the
Bank i s represented. The SES Unit i s under the direct supervision o f the Director General o f
the CSA. One staff member o fthe SES Unitwill be trained on procurementprocesses.

64.     Supervision Arrangements, Monitoring and Evaluation: During the first year o f
project implementation, intensive World Bank supervision will be required in order to ensure
that the project development objectives and expected outcomes are met by the end o f the
project. A total o f 10 staff weeks are to be devoted to the project each year. The first FM
supervision mission after effectiveness will include a review o f the flow o f funds. There will
be two supervision missions per year. Funding is set aside in the project for an impact
assessment of the SES scheme, once it has been running sufficiently long for lessons to be
extracted. The following staff will be engaged inthe supervision o f the project:

Lisa Bhansali, Sr. Public Sector Specialist - 6 weeks

Smile Kwawukume, Sr. Public Sector Specialist - 6 weeks

Michael L.0.Stevens, Lead consultant on public service reform -4 weeks

Anthony Mensa-Bonsu, Procurement consultant - 4 weeks

Samuel Bruce-Smith, FinancialManagement consultant - 4 weeks

Timetable for key Processing events
        Pre-Appraisal: June 2007
        Appraisal: Virtual - August 13-24,2007
        Planned RRC date: September 20,2007
        PlannedNegotiations: October 4,2007
        VP approval date: October 9, 2007
        Grant signingdate: October 12,2007
        Planned Effectiveness date: November 1,2007
        Plannedmid-termreview: April 6,2009
        Planned Closing date: October 1,2010

        The project will be implementedwithin a three year period from November 1,2007 to
        October 30,2010.

                                               18


F.      Project Risks and Mitigating Measures

Possible opponents of the scheme are those with a vested interest in traditional patronage
based management of the CS, and unions who may oppose the bringing in o f better paid
outsiders to fill existing CS positions. Drivers o f change are principally key ministers and the
President, the emerging private sector, and, to an extent not customary elsewhere, engaged
donors. The best way to mitigate the risk o f stakeholder resistance to the scheme i s place
SES staff in critical positions where they can make a difference, while at the same time to
move forward as quickly as possible with a well designed civil service reform strategy that
can demonstrate improved working conditions for staff who remain in the civil service, fair
compensation for those who are separated, and visible improvements in services from the
perspective o f the population at large. Key will be identifying and implementing the "quick
wins" which are undoubtedly there to be exploited.

           PotentialRisks               Rating                  Riskmitigation measures

 (a) Ifthe SES i s not properly       High            The best antidote i s the early roll out o f
 and transparently managed,                           MDAsreformsunder the broadCSRP, so
 there i s likely to be discontent                    that staff who are not part o f the SES see a
 amongst other officials and civil                    process getting under way which promises
 servants not covered under the                       them improved working conditions inthe
 scheme and SES recruits could                        medium term. Close involvement by the
 loose credibility to the rest o f                    Bank inthe development o f the overall
 the civil service.                                   CSRP, and a good communications strategy.
                                                      The key to minimizing staff resentment and
                                                      maintain credibility o f the SES scheme i s
                                                      ensuring that their deployment i s inthe
                                                      context o f departmental reforms that promise
                                                      improvedpay and conditions for those civil
                                                      servants selectedback into restructured
                                                      ministries.
 (b) The selectionprocess under       High            Placing selection inthe hands o f professional
 the SES could be abused                              HRconsultants is aimed at preventing this
 leading to patronage.                                Bank involvement inscheme oversight
                                                      through PIC membership would ensure that
                                                      selection process i s not abused.
 (c) Individualswho are not           Moderate to This i s most likely to originate from
 successful inthe competency          High            incumbent civil servants who apply and are
 assessmentmay seek to disrupt                        turneddown. A mechanismfor deployment
 or disparage the program.                            elsewhere or equitable separation needs to be
                                                      developed, consistent with the overall CSRP.
 (d) Political and financial          Moderate        At presentthere i s a highlevel o finterest in
 commitment o f Government to                         the scheme, whose main parameters have
 the scheme could wane.                               been approved by Cabinet and the President.
                                                      A Project Implementation Committee was
                                                      formed to advocate for the SES inrelevant
                                                      meetings inorder to sustain the commitment
                                                      o f the Government.
 (e) The monthly salary rates for     High            Move away from annual across-the-board
 members o f the SES could be                         Dav increases (which are unsustainable) to a

                                              19


 viewed as a sign post by the                      policy that grants pay improvements only for
 entire public service.                            staff inMDAswhich undergo serious
                                                   restructuring, rightsizing, and reform.
                                                   Separately, the Bank i s supporting
                                                   development o f a CS pay and employment
                                                   Dolicv.
 The SES scheme may not              Moderate      The advertisement about the SES scheme has
 attract enough people inthe                       been widely publishedon Liberian websites
 diaspora.                                         targeting Liberians who are eager to return
                                                   home.
 At the end o f 3 years, Go1         Moderate to Work to ensure macroeconomic stability and
 cannot afford to assume             high          a positive investment climate, to promote
 responsibility for paying SES                     continued economic growth and strong
 salaries.                                         revenues. Help GoL design a pay and
                                                   employment strategy which allows
                                                   progressive real pay improvement within an
                                                   affordable wage bill.


65.     In addition to the mitigation measures enumerated above, there will be regular
supervision o f the project through the Liberia Country Office o f the Bank. Procurement and
financial management specialists located in the Ghana Country Office will also provide the
necessary support. A total o f 13 staff weeks will be used to supervise the project per year. A
mid-term review will be carried out 18 months after project effectiveness to assess progress
under the project, achievement o f the overall objectives and to eventually reorient the project
ifneededto ensure that itachieves its objectives.

G.      Terms andConditionsfor ProjectFinancing

66.     This project is to be funded through a grant fi-om the Trust Fundfor Liberia.

67.     Prior to the disbursement of funds an operational work plan should be prepared and
approved by the Bank. Thereafter an annual update should be prepared no later than
December 15 of each subsequent year.

                                             20



                      Annex 1: Detailed Description of Project Components

ComponentI. Recruitment o f members for the SES scheme

1.      This component involves the recruitment of members for the SES scheme. Funding
will be used to pay for the wages o f members o f the SES for three years. It is planned to
recruit a minimum o f 100 SES members. A total o f 21 positions will be recruited as the first
wave o f recruitment. Subsequently, two more recruitment waves are planned for April 1,
2008 and June 1, 2008. Proceeds from TFLIB will be used to pay for between 25-40
members o f the SES scheme. The following rates will apply for the three levels:


         Tieraeve1             Number of Staff            Salary level/month/person
                                      (A)                              (B)
         First                        30                            US$3,000
         Second                       30                            US$2,000
         Third                        40                            us$l,ooo
         Total                        100


         Tier/Level        November 1,2007       April 1,2008       June 1,2008    Total
         First                      21                  9                              30
         Second                                         30                 --          30
         Third                                          10                30           40
         Total                      21                  49                30           100


Component2. Management o f the SES scheme

2.      This component would be used to procure basic furniture and office equipment to
support and strengthen the capacity o f CSA as the oversight civil service institution to
eventually manage the SES program at the end o f the project. Inaddition, the component will
be used to pay for travel and relocation expenses, workshop and seminars to be organized on
the SES scheme, exit package, and monitoring and evaluation of the scheme. Proceeds from
the TFLIB will be used specifically to fund office furniture and equipment, travel and
relocation expenses, workshops and monitoring and evaluation o f the scheme and the conduct
o f annual external audit.

                                                    21


                          Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring

ProjectDev. Objective       Outcome Indicators                        Use of Outcome Information
Provide seniormanagerial    1. Evidencethat leadershipcapacityin      'rovides evidence that SES staff are
and professionalstaff to       MDAs where SES staff are placedhas     ,laying akey role inbuilding capacity
key ministries,to increase     discernablyimproved.                   nline ministries for policymakingand
highlevelcapacity and       2. Participatingministriesand agencies    service delivery.
leadreform and                 have each developedandbegun
restructuringfor better        implementingarestructuringplanbased    Demonstratesthat MDAs reformsare
policy making, regulation      on aredefinedmandate, new              )art of acoherent overall reform
and improved                   organizationalstructure andmatching    xogram, andthat the SES schemecan
policymaking and service       staffing plans.                        )e integratedinto the CS at the end of
delivering.                                                           ;heperiodof donor support.
IntermediateResults         Resultsindicators                         Use of result Monitoring
Component One: SES          1. Number of SES positionsrecruited       Demonstratesthat qualified staff are
salaries                       against clearjob descriptionsandplaced being appointedto positionsand
Identification of critical     inkeyministries inthree tranchesunder  deployed inkey ministries which are
leadership positionsand        performancecontracts.                  undergoingrestructuring,consistent
recruitment of senior       2. Number of ministrieswhich have begun   with the CSR strategy.
professionaland                athoroughrestructuringandreform
managerialstaff as             process.
members of a Senior
ExecutiveService, drawn
from within and outside
the civil service, under
three year performance
contracts at competitive

                            Establishmentor a SES coordinationunit in To demonstratethat the scheme is
Scheme management           CSA, and regular meetingof the Program    being implementedas designed, and
and administration.         ImplementationCommittee, to provide       qualified staff have been deployed
                            guidance and oversight.                   accordingto plan.
Putting inplace a
managementstructure for
the scheme to ensure
leadership positionsare
identifiedby ministries,
job descriptions drawnup,
qualified candidatesare
selected, and deployed
under performance
contracts, reviewed
annually.

     VI
     4
     u




                          h
                         d




                v,
                m     m   m
                      3  3




          9     m
                VI        m




N    s
                m
                v,
N    v,               v, v,
     3




     I     I    3
                N     3  3

                                                   23




    Component                            Description                     Estimated Cost (in US$)
          1          Salaries o f membersfor the SES scheme                    6,018,000
          2          Administration o f the SES scheme                         1,630,000
  TOTAL                                                                        7,648,000

  Comportent 1

I Entry 1
        points
  Tier/     November 1,2007        1Apr. 1,2008   IJune 1,2008   ITotal Salary level per month
                                                                        I
  Level                                                                  per Person(in US$)
  First               21                  9                        30              3.000
  Second                                  30              --       30             2,000
  Third               -                   10            30         40              1,000
  Total               21                  49            30        100

  Detailed Cost Breakdown of ComDonent 1
         Tier/         November 1,2007        Apr. 1,2008        June 1,2008          Total
        Level
  First                           2,268,000          810,000                            3,078,000
  Second                                            1,800,000                           1,800,000
  Third                                   --         300.000            840.000          1.140.000



  Component 2


   Activity                                                                   Amount (in US$)
  1.Travel and relocation cost                                                              55,000
  2. WorkshoP and seminars                                                                  25.000
  3. Office equipment and furniture at CSA                                                  25,000
  4. Assessment o f SES candidates bv HRfirm                                              200.000
  5. Impact evaluation o f SES scheme                                                       70,000
  6. Audit                                                                                  45,000
  TOTAL                                                                                   420-01)O



  Activity                                                                     Amount (in US$)
  1. Travel and relocation cost                                                            300,000
  2. Exit Package                                                                          180.000
  3. Workshop and seminars                                                                200,000
  4. Vehicle, office eaubment and furniture at CSA                                          50.000

                                              24


 5. PMU staff salary                                                         165,000
 6. PMUstafftraining                                                          40,000
 7. Travel                                                                    35.000
 8. Internet setup and servicing                                             125,000
 9. Communication andDublication                                              70.000
 10. Operation and maintenance o f generator                                 120,000
 11. Operation and maintenance o f vehicle                                    30,000
 12.Assessment o f SES candidates by HR firm                                 200,000
 13.Audit                                                                     45,000
 14. Impact evaluation of SES scheme                                          70,000




I Components                         I TFLIB            I Others    I   Total        I
                                       Contribution
  One                                         1,880,000   4,138,000         6,018,000
  Two                                           420,000   1,210,000         1,630,000~
  TOTAL                                       2,300,000   5,348,000         7,648,000

                                                  25


               Annex 4: FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements

Introduction

1.      A financial management assessment was carried out in accordance with the Financial
Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on 3 November 2005.
The objective o f the assessment was to determine whether the implementing entities have acceptable
financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (i)     the funds are used only for the intended
purposes in an efficient and economical way; (ii)    the preparation o f accurate, reliable, and timely
periodic financial reports; and (iii)
                                    safeguard the entity's assets, incompliance with OPBP 10.02.
2.      The financial management assessment was carried out by the Bank financial management
team and included interview with key staff o f Public Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the
Ministry o f Finance (MoF). Our assessment also draws on experience with ongoing emergency and
rehabilitation projects inLiberia.

Overview of Programand ImplementationArrangements
3.      Project implementation will benefit from arrangements established under the Emergency
Infrastructure Project (EIP) and the Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (IRP). Oversight will be
provided by a project steering committee, chaired by the Ministry o f Finance and with membership
includingrepresentatives from the Bureau o f the Budget (BOB),the Civil Service Agency (CSA) and
the Central Bank o f Liberia (CBL). The M o F currently has weak implementation capacity and as a
result these activities will be implemented through the CSA in close collaboration with PFMU that
will be taskedwith the responsibility o fmanaging the project finances.
4.      Dueto the existing weak financial management capacity inthe line ministries and the needto
ensure an effective and efficient management o f resources, it has been agreed that the existing
PFMU in the Ministry o f Finance takes up the responsibility to manage project funds under the
Senior Executive Service Project (SESP). The PFMU is staffed with a team o f competent financial
management professionals, i.e. a Project Accountant and an Internal Auditor, with the required
experience and qualifications that are satisfactory to the Bank. The PFMU will be further
strengthened with selection o f a substantive Unit Manager, whose recruitment i s underway. The
PFMUteam will be responsible for the day to day management o f project finances, in accordance
with the project financial procedures manual already developed for the ongoing projects. The PFMU
will also have responsibility for project financial reporting, using already agreed interimun-audited
financial statements (IFR) formats inuse for the other projects.

CountryAccountabilityIssues

5.      Due to the extended conflict situation in the country which led to disengagement, the Bank
has not carried out a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) or similar Financial
Management (FM) related Economic and Sector Work (ESW) in Liberia in recent years. A Public
Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) exercise is currently
underway and scheduled to be completed inearly 2008. The limited country knowledge that we have
i s therefore based solely on project implementation experience, which itself i s still in its infancy.
Both physical and bureaucratic infrastructure was decimated by the war, including an exodus o f
most skilled personnel. Thus the human capital in the area o f FM i s decidedly short, affecting both

                                                     26


the private and public sectors. A decision was made early in the re-engagement process to develop a
`centralized' project financial management unit, the PFMU in the MoF, to create a reservoir o f
skilledpersonnel that would be available for all projects. It is this `solution' that this project will also
tap into, to avoid the obvious FMcapacity constraints.
6.       The risk analysis and mitigation measures are limitedto the risk within the project's control.
A summary o fthe risks are shown inthe table below.
Summary of RiskAnalysis

InherentRisk                                   Risk   Risk MitigationMeasure
                                               Rating
Country Level
Poor FMperformance due to a lack o f             H    Establishment o f the `centralized' FMunit inthe MOF to handle
adequately qualified FMprofessionals.                 all project finances inthe short to mediumterm, while
                                                      concurrent P F M TA's concentrate on targeted P F M training for
                                                      both public and private sector staff.
Entity Level
EntityManagement may politically interfere       S    Strong and independentproject financial management unit
with project financial management controls.           (PFMU) will be responsible for project financial management.
OverallInherent Risks:                           H
Control Risk:
Internal ControlProcedures:                      S    Project will use FMprocedures established at P F M Ufor the
                                                      financial management o f EIP and IRP, and documented in a
    a)   FMpolicies may not be adequate               manual which will be cleared by the World Bank.
         and may not even be inplace.
                                                      The Financial Management Unit (PFMU) with qualified
    b) That managementmay override any           S    financial staff with specific job descriptions will minimize any
         existing controls.                           control override that may occur under the projects.

                                                      The oversight responsibility o f the Project Implementation
                                                      Committee will also play a complementary role inthe way
                                                      project finances are managed.

                                                      There will also be frequent Bank oversight and periodic external
                                                      reviews from time to time.
Fund Flows
a) Project may not submit withdrawal             S    Coordination between PFMU, MoF and CSA will be
applications on timelybasis, thereby causing          streamlined to ensure full cooperation to fosterlengender
possible implementation delays.                       timeliness o f the submission o f withdrawal applications.

Internal Audit (IA)                              S    The P F M Uhas an internal auditor who will ensure adequate
The CSA has no functioning IA unit. The               internal checks to address any weaknesses.
Civil Service Agency may not establish an IA
any time soon, as part o f its establishment.
External Audit
The audited financial statements o fthe          S    Arrangements would be made to make use o f existing P F M U
project will be submittedlate.                        audit arrangements. where Dossible.
Information Systems
A computerized accounting systemmay not          M    The P F M Uhas implementedsuch a system on the Sun
be implementedina satisfactory manner.                Accounting Platform. P F M Uwill procure adequate services to
                                                      ensure the system i s maintained infunctioning state at all times.
OverallControlRisk                               S

                                                       27


Strengths andWeaknesses

Strengths

7.       PFMU in the MoF will have financial management responsibility for the SES project. The
staff for the unit i s already managing Bank and other donor financed projects, and their prior
experience will be o f enormous benefit to SESP. Use o f the existing unit will also contribute to
speedy and timely implementation o f this project. The PFMU will at all times, maintain, the
established and acceptable financial management systems and practices that meet the World Bank
FM requirements. The PFMU has a training center, which currently hosts FM programs of the
University o f Liberia and has included as part o f the TORSo f professional staff, the provision o f
training for line ministry staff.

Weaknesses

8.       As inother post conflict countries, the overall fiduciary environment inLiberia is very weak.
The accounting staffs of the MoF and CSA have little or no experience with World Bank financial
and disbursement procedures. The PFMU will in the long run be required to build FM capacity
within the line Ministries including MoF and CSA. The PFMU does not have a Unit Manager and
has not engaged services o f an external Auditor for the projects under its management. However, the
position o f the unit manager i s in the process o f being filled and the selection o f an external auditor
i s also underway, which will be advantageous to SESP

9.       Successful implementation o f this project will require ownership and active support from
governmental authorities and less interference. This i s the greatest challenge that this project will
face.
Actions

10.      The sole financial management caveat is to do with the selection of a Project Auditor, which
has to be finalized within 6 months o f achieving project effectiveness.




           - -                                                           I wltnln
                                                                          project enectiveness
                                                                                    m,. .
         Ratify use o f existing formats of IFRs or
  3.     aaee on their modification to suite the needsUnitManager PFMU/
                                                      - .                 Negotiations



  4.     amended to include SESP special needs (if Unit Manager PFMU      January 31,2008
         any)

                                                   28


FMStaffingfor the Project

11.      The PFMU has three accounting staff seconded from the MoF, an international professional
accountant and a professional internal auditor, both o f whom assume duty from October 1, 2007.
The staff will be provided further training inthe Bank's disbursement and FMprocedures, to enable
themto managetheresources ofBankfundedprojects inLiberia.

Project Financial Management

12.      The PFMUwill be responsible for the day to day financial management o f the SES project in
addition to the current EP, EPSC, AIDP and IRP. The PFMU has established an effective
accounting system that provides for adequate segregation of functions, capable o f recording all
accounting transactions, and reporting correctly all assets and liabilities o f the project. The system
would also be capable o f producing accurate periodic financial reports including interim un-audited
financial reports (IFRs) and annual project financial statements.
13.      The project will adopt the cash basis in the treatment and recording of all transactions. In
addition, the project will maintain a statement of liabilities outstanding at all times to correctly
reflect the projects indebtednessto suppliers andthird parties. The financial management systemwill
follow the financial accounting procedures established for the ongoing projects.
14.      The financial management responsibility o f the project will be vested in the PFMU in the
MinistryofFinance. The PFMUhas an established FMsystemthat it has usedsuccessfully thus far
to support the Infrastructure projects in Liberia. This project will want to take advantage o f the
systems.
Budgetarrangements

15.      The CSA, working with the PFMU, will prepare annual work plans and budget and will be
sent for review by the World Bankwithin three months from effectiveness and there after not later
than December 15 each subsequentyear. The budgets will be revisedas necessary based on
comments received.
FundsFlow and DisbursementArrangements

16.      The project arrangements are such that there will be no implementing entities at any
decentralized position and the PFMUwill therefore operate a centralized funds management system
for the project. The PFMU will open a Designated Account (DA), denominated in United States
Dollars in a commercial bank, specifically to receive funds disbursed from the Grant. All requests
for payment will be sent to the accountant for processing and payments. Inthe unlikely event that a
single payment is above a defined direct payment threshold that will be reflected in the
Disbursement Letter, it will be processed and sent to the IDA for direct payment to the third party.
There will be a requirement for the PFMU to submit replenishment withdrawal applications in
respect o f the project to IDA on monthly basis. This will ensure the project has funds for operations
at all times.
17.      I t hasbeen determinedthat disbursementunder the project will be on transaction basis until
such a time that there will be sufficient capacity to transit to report-based disbursement.The initial
advance will be disbursed into the SESP DesignatedAccount (DA), opened and operatedby the

                                                  29


PFMUat a commercial bank acceptableto IDA,uponthe submission of awithdrawal application.
Subsequentdisbursement will bemade on submission ofreplenishment/withdrawalapplications to
IDA.



            Source of Funds


            Bank Accounts

                                      1
            Bank Accounts        Current (Draw
                                 down) account
                                 inLiberian
                                 Dollars




DesignatedAccount

18.     The Designated Account for SESP will be maintained inU S dollars and will be replenished
regularly, at least once a month, to maintain a healthy cash flow for the project.
19.     The initial deposit into the DA will be based on the cash requirements of the project for the
first four months. The authorized amount for the DA will be specified in the Disbursement Letter.
The financial resources made available through the Designated Accounts will be used to finance
agreedproject activities only.

Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)

20.     Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items o f
expenditures under contracts below (i)   US$50,000 equivalent for Goods; (ii) 100,000 equivalent
                                                                               US$
for consulting firm; (iii)training; and (v) incremental operating costs for which disbursements would
be based on statement o f expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained by PFMUfor review by Bank missions and external auditors when required.

Direct Payments

21.     IDA may makepayments direct to athirdparty (Le. consultants, contractors and suppliers) at
the request o f the recipient, in a prescribed format, to the IDA for eligible expenditures incurred
under the project that are above a set threshold, which will also be reflected in the Disbursement
Letter.

                                                     30




Category                                  Amount of the Grant                % of Expendituresto be
                                        Allocated (in US Dollars)                   Financed"
Recurrent Costs for SES Staff                                1,880,000                 100%

(PartKomponent A)
Goods, Consultants' Services,                                  420,000                 100%
Training and other Incremental
Operating Costs

(PartKomponent B)
Total                                                        2,300,000



Reportingand Monitoring

22.      The CSA will, in collaboration with the PFMU, prepare quarterly project interimreports (PIR) inthe
area o f financial management beside other areas such as procurement, includingcomplaints from bidders, and
project implementation physical progress. The financial management systemput inplace inthe PFMUwould
be capable o f producing the report. The Quarterly Interim Financial Report would basically consist o f a
statement of cash receipts by source and expenditures by main expenditure classifications for the period and
cumulatively; cash balances of the Project; and supporting schedules comparing actual and budgeted
expenditures. The PFMU will prepare and generate the relevant informational input for this report. The
three-part report will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end o f each quarter. The
report will be submitted to the Task Team Leader (TTL) with copies to the respective area Specialist
to facilitate speedy review and commentary by Specialists. The TTL will consolidate the comments
and present them to CSA for action.
Auditing arrangements

23.        The project Financial Statements will be audited annually by an independent external
auditor, who would be competitively selected for the projects managed by the PFMU, in accordance
with the Grant Agreement signedbetween the Bank andthe GoL's Ministry o fFinance.
24.      The project financial statements including funds movements on the Designated Account will
be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and a single opinion will be
issued to cover the project financial statements, Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs) and the
Designated Account Activity Statement, inaccordance with the Bank's audit policy.
25.      The auditors' report and opinion in respect o f the financial statements including the
management letter would be furnished to the World Bank within six months o f the close o f each
fiscal year.

                                                  31


SupervisionPlan

26.    Inview ofthe fact that this is the first Bank-financedproject focusingon SES, it is envisaged
that during the first year o f project implementation, intensive World Bank supervision will be
required in order to ensure that the project financial management arrangements are in place and
functioning. The first FMsupervision mission after effectiveness will include a review o f the flow o f
funds arrangements and a review of the systems established by PFMU. Generally, it is plannedthat
there will be two supervision missions per year.

Conclusionof FMAssessment

27.    The financial management assessment established that the overall fiduciary risk for the
project i s substantial. The actions which were initiated for the ongoing EIP, IRP and EIP-SC have
been strengthened to ensure that the identified risks are adequately mitigated. The engagement o f a
professionally qualified accountant and internal auditor to complement the staff o f the PFMU, the
establishment o f systems and procedures by the PFMU as part o f their assignment and the agreed
auditing arrangements for the project will ensure that residual project risks are no higher than
moderate.
28.    It is therefore the conclusion of the assessment that the proposed FM arrangements for the
new emergency SES Project meet the Bank's minimumrequirements for FMunder OPBP 10.02.

                                                       32


                                  Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements

A.       General


1.       Procurement of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out o f the
proceeds o f the Grant shall be governedby the provisions of: a) "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans
and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 revised October 2006; b) the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 revised October 2006; and c) the Legal
Agreement as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. The various items under
different expenditure categories to be financed are described below. For each contract to be financed with
Grant proceeds, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, and prior review requirements have already been agreed between the
Government of Liberia and the Association and are reflected inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan
will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

2.       Selection of Consultants: Consultancy services valued at about US$0.25 million to be provided
include the services o f a Human Resources (HR) firm for the assessment of SES candidates, and the project
financial audit. The project has been classified as a rapid response program where, in conjunction with the
New Policy Framework, (OP S.O),        accelerated and Streamlined Procedures may apply to improve the
flexibility, speed, and effectiveness o f the Bank's emergency response. Therefore the use o f the Selection
based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) was considered as an appropriate method for hiringthe HR firm
and the auditor in accordance with Para 3.7 of the Consultants guidelines. All contracts to be awarded
following CQS will be subjected to Bank prior review and the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be
used. Sole sourcing o f consulting firms or individual consultants already working inthe areas and which have
a proven track record for provisions of similar assignments, and the extension o f contracts issued under
existing projects for similar activities through increase in their corresponding contract amounts would be
explored on a case by case basis and subjected to Banknon objection.

3.       Procurement of Goods: Small quantities o f goods totaling US$50,000 would be procured under the
project, including one vehicle, basic furniture and office equipment for the CSA. Giventhe limitedamounts
involved these goods will be procured under shopping procedures in accordance with Para 3.5 o f the
Guidelines.

4.        Other; The project will finance large numbers of individuals who deliver services on a contract basis
under the SES scheme. The selection procedures will follow well-established HR practices that have been
determined by the Bank to be acceptable to it. The job descriptions, minimum qualifications, terms o f
employment, selection procedures, and the extent o f Bank review o f these procedures and documents shall be
described inthe project documentation and the model contract shall be approved by the Bank.

5.        Training:Training valued at about US$O.15 include Workshops and seminars to be organized on the
SES scheme. Ifthe services o f consultants are required, they will be selected as per Para 3 above.

6.        Operating Costs: incremental recurrent expenditures incurred for Project implementation including
PMUstaff salary, fuel and maintenance of vehicles, maintenance o f equipment, communications charges, etc,
will be procured using the implementing agency's administrative procedures reviewed and found acceptable
to the Association.

                                                         33


B.        Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement


7.        The SES Unitof CSA will be responsiblefor the procurement of services and goods. The SES Unitis
under the direct supervision ofthe Director General ofthe CSA. Jointly, the PFMUand the CSA will prepare
an annual work plan and budget approved by the Bank within three months from effectiveness for the first
year and thereafter by no later than December 15 o f each subsequent year.

8.        The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the SES scheme have been
identified and include (i)the weak institutional capacity inthe country, which translates into lack o f qualified
procurement professionals at all levels (ii)the CSA has no prior experience o f managing Bank-financed
projects and presently lacks the capacity to manage the scheme with existing staff, (iii)   the SES Unitincharge
o f procurement i s a new creation which has yet to be established as an organized unit within the CSA (iv)
Lack o f experience and knowledge o f Bank's procurement policies and guidelines, particularly inthe area o f
the selection o f consultants. It i s expected that the CSA will have no particular difficulties inprocuring small
quantities o f goods under shopping method. The above key issues and risks to the project are mainly in the
capacity to manage the selection o f consultants needed under the SES scheme. The following specific action
plan was agreed with the Government to establish procurement management capacity and mitigate
procurement risks for the project:

Summary of RiskAnalysis and Mitigation Plan
Inherent Risk                            Risk         RiskMitigation           By whom           By When
                                         Rating       Measure
Country Level
Poor Procurement performance due to          H        Procurement positions    PIC/WB            As part of the SES
a lack o f adequately qualified                       should be identified                       scheme.
procurement professionals.                            under the SES scheme.
Entity Level
CSA lacks experience inthe                   H        Close Bank oversight     WB                During
management o f Bank-fundedprojects.                   and guidance will be                       preparation and
                                                      instituted.                                continually
                                                                                                 thereafter.
The procurement functions of the SES         H        Designate a procurement  CSA               Before
Unit not established and staff lacks                  focal point within the   DirectorNB        effectiveness.
knowledge o f Bank procurement                        unit andprovide training
policies and procedures.                              on Bank procurement.

OverallInherentRisks:                        H
Control Risk:
Internal Control Procedures:

Streamlined Procurement management           H        All procurement will be
processes are not inplace.                            subject to Bank prior
                                                      review



9.        The overall project riskfor procurement is High.

C.        ProcurementPlan
The Government has prepared a draft procurement plan for the first 6 months with schedules and processing
times which provides the basis for the procurement methods andrelatedBank reviews.This planwill be
agreed with the Government duringnegotiations and will be available at the SES Unitinthe CSA.Itwill also

                                                          34


be available inthe Project's database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Planwill be
updated annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementationneeds.

C.       FrequencyofProcurement Supervision

10.      Two supervision missions will be conducted each year to carryout a post review o f procurement
actions. The procurement post-reviews should cover 100 percent of contracts subject to post-review. In
addition, post reviews o f in-country training will be conducted from time to time to review the selection o f
institutions/facilitators/course contents o f trainees andjustifications thereof, and costs incurred.
11.      Contract Managements: The SES Unit will prepare procurement reports that provide information on
theprocurement of services and goods showingprocurement performance against plan
E. Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition

1. Goods,Works, andNonConsultingServices

(a) List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting: NONE

2. Consulting Services

(a) List o f consulting assignments with short-list o f international firms.

 Ref.             Description ofAssignment              Estimated Selection        Review           Expected
 No.                                                       cost        Method      by Bank          Proposals
                                                                                   (Prior I        Submission
                                                                                    Post)             Date
 01.        Selection o f an HR firm for the               200,000       CQS      Prior         November 2007
            assessmento f SES candidates

 02.        Project Financial Auditor                       50,000       CQS      Prior         January 2008

 03`        Conduct o f impact evaluation o f SES                                 Prior         January 2010
            scheme                                          70,000       QCBS


12.      (b) The selection process of the HR firm and that of the audit firm will be subject to Bank prior
review. Similarly the terms o f employment and performance monitoringmeasurement o f SES employees will
be subject to prior review bythe Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalents per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

                                                    35


                     Annex 6: ImplementationandMonitoringArrangements

1.       The proposed Emergency Senior Executive Service Project will be implemented by the CSA
working jointly with the PFMUo f the Ministry o f Finance inLiberia. On request o f the Government
o f Liberia, the Bank will be disbursing funds directly to the PFMU. The PFRIIU, together with the
CSA, will be responsible for progress reporting to the Bank as described inAnnex 4.

2.       As a result o f civil war for more than a decade, Liberia has suffered neglect o f the civil
service, local capacity is insufficient for efficient and effective execution by the recipient. The Civil
Service Agency which i s the natural home for the execution o f the proposed project lacks the
institutional, technical and fiduciary capacity to execute the project.

3.       The following institutionshadbeen set up to provide efficient   implementation o f the project:

         (i)A Program Implementation Committee (PIC) has been set up to provide strategic
             direction for the successful implementation of the project. The PIC consist o f the
             following members: Director-General o f Civil Service- Chair; Ministry o f Planning- Co-
             chair; Ministry o f Finance; Ministry o f State (LRDC Secretariat); Governance Reform
             Commission; UNDP; USAID, World Bank Country Representative and, Humanity
             United.

4.       It is expected that the PIC will meet on at least quarterly basis. The PIC will advocate for the
SES in relevant meetings in the course o f their normal working duties, report to the L R D C through
the chair o f the Governance and Rule o f Law pillar, advise on how to address any issue and
challenges that may arise, ensure high linkage with the selection mechanism and other capacity
buildingprograms and above allprovide strategic direction for all aspects ofthe program.

         (ii)SeniorSelection Committee.Thiscommitteewillbetaskedwiththeresponsibilityof
             A
             assisting the PMU in the selection o f suitable qualified candidates who meet the
             requirements under the SES scheme.

5.       In addition, the Civil Service Agency has set up a dedicated unit to work closely with the
MDAs where SES staff members will be deployed. An SES Program Coordinator has already been
recruited.

                           36


Annex 7: Project Preparationand AppraisalTeam Members

                                                     37



                             Annex 8: Economic andFinancialAnalysis

1.      Civil Service Reform projects are a challenge to analyze. While costs are usually known, the
benefits are extremely difficult to measure, not least because the services producedby civil servants
are not valued by the market, and many o f the outputs, particularly where high level staff are
concerned, are intangible. Costs, however, can fairly accurately be stated. The SES scheme will
cost approximately US$7.5 million over a three year period, with the salary component amounting to
about US$2.2 million annually. By contrast, the total wage bill o f the civil service inFY06/07 was
budgetedat US$46 million and inFY07/08 the provisionis US$70 million. The scheme is planned
to grow to 100 SES positions, with three recruitment tranches. The size o f the total civil service
payroll has been around 42,000, though this i s being reduced towards 35,000 as ghosts and other
forms o f payroll fraud are eliminated.       There i s further scope for reducing numbers as surplus
positions are identifiedand staff are separated, with equitable compensation. The average cost o f a
SES officer will be around US$2,000 a month (possibly more, depending on how individual
positions are rewarded).      The average cost of a regular civil servant, counting both pay and
allowances, i s about US$145 a month.

2.      IfskilledandexperiencedLiberianscanbe attractedto the scheme and successfully placedin
a performance framework, it i s reasonable to assume that the value that they will add will exceed the
cost o f their services, hopefully with a significant multiplier effect. The importance attached to the
scheme by the Government, from the President downwards, the arrangements made for screening
and selection, and the close attention that will be paid to the scheme by the funding agencies which
are members o f the PIC underpinthis assessment.

3.      The critical issue for the Government is whether the SES can be sustained after the period of
external financing has ended. This will depend on several factors. The first i s the growth o f
domestic revenues, which have performed well inthe past two years, and can reasonably expect to
continue growing as economic recovery proceeds. The Government hopes that revenues will rise to
around US$300 million in three years, and, while this i s an optimistic figure, it i s not out o f reach.
Assuming the wage bill maintains its share of total spending, the amount available for salaries and
allowances o f the whole civil service could rise to just over US$lOO million, more if donors provide
budget support. In a narrow sense, this would provide more than sufficient resources for full local
funding of the SES positions, once donor support ends.

4.      The unknown part of the equation is the claim on resources from the rest of the civil service
wage bill. Inthe long run, the Government would want to bring into being a new pay and grading
structure which would be greatly decompressed relative to present scales, paying unskilled civil
servants a basic living wage (perhaps around US$200 a month), and top civil servants broadly inline
with local labor market comparators, after adjusting for the difference inworking conditions. This
would bring the top end o f the pay structure close to the proposed SES scales, thereby enabling
integration o f the SES into the rest o f the civil service.

5.      How quickly the Government can carry though a broader program o f civil service reform,
leading to rightsizing and pay reform remains to be seen. Progress will be watched closely during
implementation, and ifnecessary the scheme will be adjusted, either by reducing its size, redefining
its terms, keeping it a distinct part o f government employment after the period o f donor funding has

                                                 38


ended, or terminating the experiment. As with all novel schemes, it i s necessary to constantly
monitor whether it is working, and make changes if required.           Both the government and the
development partners are aware o f the experimental nature o f the scheme, its challenges, and its
potential for high payoff. Under the parallel LICUS Grant for capacity building in the CSA, the
Bank is financing a pay and employment study, which will shed light on the changes needed to
existing scales required to integrate the SES. The study will show the pathway to a more viable civil
service pay structure, based upon much greater differentials, restriction o f pay improvements to only
those MDAs undergoing structural reform, staffing levels based upon organizational structures
which reflect mandates.

