                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2098



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-91041)



                                       ON A

            GRANT FROM THE TRUST FUND FOR LIBERIA (TFLIB)

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 2.30 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA

                                       FOR A

             EMERGENCY SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE PROJECT



                                 December 29, 2011




Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Country Department AFCW1
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 29, 2011)

                      Currency Unit = Liberian Dollar
                        USD 1.00 = LRUSD 71.50

                              FISCAL YEAR
                              July 1- June 30

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDO       County Development Officer
CPA       Comprehensive Peace Agreement
CSA       Civil Service Agency
DFID       Department for International Development
EGIRP      Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GEMAP     Governance and Economic Management Assistance Program
GIZ       Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit
GOL        Government of Liberia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISR        Implementation Status Report
JCAS      Joint Country Assistance Strategy
LICUS     Low Income Countries Under Stress
LIPA      Liberia Institute of Public Administration
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MTR       Mid Term Review
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PIC      Project Implementation Committee
PFMU     Project Financial Management Unit
PRS      Poverty Reduction Strategy
RFTF      Results Focused Transitional Framework
SES      Senior Executive Service
TFLIB    Trust Fund for Liberia
TTL      Task Team Lead
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
      Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
    Country Director: Sergiy Kulyk
     Sector Manager: Anand Rajaram
Project Team Leader: Smile Kwakuwume
   ICR Team Leader: Raymond Muhula
                                                         LIBERIA
                                                SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE


                                                                     CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................................................... i
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................................................. ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................................... iv
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................................................ iv
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................................................. v


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................................................11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..........................................................................................20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................................................21
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................................24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............................................27


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...........................................................................................................28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................................................29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................................................30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..............................................31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................................32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................................................33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................................................38
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................................................41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................................................42
MAP ..............................................................................................................................................................43
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Emergency Senior
Country:                Liberia                 Project Name:             Executive Service
                                                                          Project (ESESP)
Project ID:             P109195                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-91041
ICR Date:               12/30/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          LIBERIA
Original Total
                        USD 2.30M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 2.30M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2.30M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Civil Service Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/20/2007     Effectiveness:             10/12/2007        10/12/2007
Appraisal:            08/13/2007     Restructuring(s):                            12/29/2010
Approval:             10/12/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Not Applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Not Applicable
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Sergiy V. Kulyk                      Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:            Anand Rajaram                        Anand Rajaram
Project Team Leader:       Smile Kwawukume                      Smile Kwawukume
ICR Team Leader:           Raymond Muhula
ICR Primary Author:        Raymond Muhula


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Provide senior managerial and professional staff to key ministries, to increase high level
capacity and lead reform and restructuring for better policy making, regulation and
improved policy making and service delivery.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)




                                               ii
                                           Original Target        Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                              documents)           Values       Target Years
                Evidence that leadership capacity in MDAs where SES staff are placed has
Indicator 1 :
                discernibly improved(at least three quarters are deemed well performing).
Value
quantitative or None                       75 percent                       90 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2007                   10/30/2010                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)
                Participating ministries and agencies have each developed and begun
Indicator 2 : implementing a restructuring plan based on a redefined mandate, new
                organizational structure and matching staffing plans.
Value
quantitative or None                       8                                6
Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2007                   10/30/2010                       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Partially (75 percent) achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
                Number of SES positions recruited against clear job descriptions and placed in
Indicator 1 :
                key ministries in three tranches under performance contracts.
Value
(quantitative   None                        35                            35
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2007                    10/30/2010                    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)
                Establishment of SES coordination office Unit in CSA and preparation of
Indicator 2 :
                quarterly progress reports.
Value
(quantitative   None                        13                            14
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2007                    10/30/2010                    06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)


                                              iii
                Regular meetings of the Program Implementation Committee organized to
Indicator 3 :
                provide guidance and oversight.
Value
(quantitative   None                    13                               15
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/01/2007                10/30/2010                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                              Actual
        Date ISR
No.                               DO                     IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                          (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2008     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory               0.30
  2     12/30/2008         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.30
  3     06/27/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      0.83
  4     12/31/2009         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.25
  5     06/30/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      1.50
  6     05/04/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      2.20
  7     07/13/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      2.20


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The restructuring (a) extended
                                                     the closing date from December
                                                     31, 2010 to June 30, 2011; and
                                                     (b) allocated USD60, 000 from
 12/29/2010       N       S       S           2.09
                                                     the recurrent costs expenditure
                                                     category of the project to goods,
                                                     consultancy and training
                                                     expenditure category.




                                             iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

After almost 14 years of conflict, Liberia entered a new era following the signing of
the Accra Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) in Accra, Ghana in 2003. The
CPA ended a brutal era of violence and warlord politics (1989-2003) that left an
estimated 60-80,000 people dead, and hundreds of thousands more displaced ( Ellis, 2007,
p.316). 1 In the immediate years before the conflict and throughout the interregnum
between the end of hostilities in 1997 and the election of Johnson-Sirleaf in 2005, the
country had suffered state capture and collapse, its institutions eroded through corruption,
mismanagement and disregard for the rule of law by successive regimes. Disorder
prevailed in the public sector.

The Liberian economy collapsed totally during the war years. It only began to
recover after the historic election, and the robust engagement of the international
community, including United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL). Much of the
country‟s physical and productive infrastructure (e.g. electricity generation and
transmission, large parts o f the water supply facilities, most of the capital stock of the
mining industry) had been destroyed. The 2007 Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
(2007) estimated that 64 percent o f the population lived below the national poverty line,
with 48 percent of the population living in extreme poverty. GDP per capita was
estimated at USD 195 in 2007, while economic growth was estimated at 9.4percent.

In spite of its critical role in helping bring about post-conflict recovery,
reconstruction and economic growth, the Civil Service was incapable o f performing
even the most basic public service functions. Many experienced and qualified
professional staff left the public service because salaries fell to very low levels, while the
public payroll remained bloated with excessive numbers of unskilled staff added during
successive years of transitional governments. The upper and middle level of technical
staff was non-existent, and the few qualified public officers who remained in their posts
during the civil war were effectively de-skilled. When the Johnson-Sirleaf government
came to office in 2006, monthly pay for most civil servants (apart from allowances) was
around about 15 US dollars per month. By July 2007 it was slightly over USD 50,
compared to about USD 200 paid to unskilled NGO workers.

The Results Focused Transitional Framework (RFTF) and the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy(I-PRSP), were unanimous that the weak Civil Service was in
need of both immediate short-term capacity improvement , as well as more
comprehensive medium to long-term reform. The government and donors therefore
adopted a multifaceted strategy to infuse the public sector with the immediate capacity it



1
    The author notes that casualty estimates vary and have tended to be exaggerated.



                                              1
needed to operate while also supporting additional initiatives aimed at building the long
term capacity of the public sector, such as developing the capacity of public management
training institutions. The project reviewed in this ICR was primarily aimed at addressing
the short term capacity constraints. Other projects such as the Governance and Economic
Management Assistance Program (GEMAP) and the DFID‟s Civil Service Capacity
Building Project (CISCAB) focused on short term needs, but also attempted to address
longer term capacity needs.

Strategic Approach to Addressing Capacity Weaknesses

Both the government and the donor community identified long and short term measures
to mitigate the capacity shortage in the public sector. Three categories of capacity surge
initiatives emerged with respect to immediate post- war Liberian Civil Service.

1. High level immediate capacity relief: In the short term, the World Bank and other
   donors relied on high level expatriate consultants to undertake specific activities
   within the government. One example was a range of internationally recruited
   (including Liberians) technical staff hired under the Governance and Economic
   Management Assistance Program (GEMAP) and the Liberia Emergency Capacity
   Building Support (LECBS) to provide financial and procurement management
   expertise in various State Owned Enterprises and other key revenue generating and
   management agencies. Others included consultants funded by projects that provided
   technical expertise to the Ministry of Finance and other implementing agencies.

2. Mid-level short-tem capacity building: These were mainly Liberian nationals hired
   on short-term contracts to provide mid-level managerial and technical skills, to
   provide and build capacity in the Civil Service. The following were short term
   capacity initiatives funded by various donors:
   a. Senior Executive Service (SES): This initiative was a multi-donor effort that
      financed the hiring of 100 professionals to alleviate the capacity shortage in the
      Civil Service. The World Bank contributed USD 2.3 million to fund 35 out of
      these 100 positions (two recruits did not take their assignments) as well as
      funding for operating expenses. The remaining 75 positions were funded by other
      donors. All professionals under this program were initially hired on three year
      contracts. By June 2011, 98 professionals had been hired on performance
      contracts and placed in about 28 ministries and agencies, as well as in 15 counties
      countrywide.
   b. Transfer of Knowledge through Expatriate Professionals (TOKTEN): USAID
      funded 77 Liberian professions recruited locally and abroad on short term
      contracts of 6-18 months.
   c. United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL): In addition to military and police
      units, UNMIL also deployed a range of Civil Affairs officers, both local and
      expatriate, who perform a number of technical duties usually undertaken by
      members of the Civil Service.




                                            2
3. Mid level- long term capacity building:
   a. Financial Management Training School: This is a World Bank funded program
      funding a training institute admitting 30 graduate students every year for a two
      year Master‟s program in accounting and financial management. The students
      receive a stipend and are employed by the MoF upon graduation.
   b. Strengthening Liberia Institute of Public Administration: This World Bank
      funded program aims to develop procurement capacity in Liberia‟s public sector.
      The program funds equipment, training of trainers, and in-service course for
      procurement officers.

The Senior Executive Service (SES) program- the subject of this ICR- initially
attracted contributions from five donors. The United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) contributed (USD l .0million), Greece (USD 0.l million), US (USD 1.0 million),
Humanity United (USD1.0 million) and the World Bank (USD2.3 million). GIZ joined
later. Other development partners such as the Department for International Development
of the United Kingdom (DfID) provided technical advice, while the UNDP under took
management responsibilities on behalf of the other donors. World Bank funds were
managed directly through the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the
Ministry of Finance.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The PDO was “to provide senior managerial and professional staff to key ministries , to
increase high level capacity and lead reform and restructuring for better policy making,
regulation and improved policy making and service delivery.?

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO was never revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The main beneficiaries of this project were the ministers and heads of agencies whose
work were supported by the SES professionals working under them. Ministries and
Agencies no doubt benefitted from improved internal processes.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1. Recruitment of members for the SES scheme

This component envisaged the recruitment and funding of a minimum of 100 SES
members for the entire program, to be divided among the participating donors by the
Project Implementation Committee (PIC). The World Bank was initially allocated the 30
professionals in tier 2 (expected to cost USD 1,880,000 out of an estimated total of USD



                                           3
4, 138,000) as shown below. However, during negotiations, the number was increased to
35 professionals.
Table1. Envisioned level, number and salary level for SES members

Tier/Level                           Number of Staff        Salary level/month/person (in
                                                                         USD)
First                                      30                            3,000
Second                                     30                            2,000
Third                                      40                            1,000
Total                                     100
Source: SES Project paper, p. 12 & p.21

Component 2. Management of the SES scheme.

This component was to procure basic furniture and office equipment to support and
strengthen the capacity of CSA as the oversight civil service institution to eventually
manage the SES program at the end of the project. In addition, the component was to
support travel and relocation expenses, workshop and seminars to be organized on the
SES scheme, exit package, and monitoring and evaluation of the scheme. Again, these
costs were to be shared between donors as determined through the PIC. The World Bank
contributed a total of USD 420, 000 (out of the estimated total cost of USD 1,210,000)
for the management of this component.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were never revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
N/A

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

    a. Project Preparation and Design

The preparation of this project was influenced by the outcome of the joint World
Bank-UNDP needs assessment for Liberia conducted in December 2003. Following
this, a Results Focused Transitional Framework (RFTF) was prepared which defined the
most urgent needs, and provided the basis for subsequent interventions such as this
project as well as the rationale for joint approaches to financing capacity building in
the public sector. The RFTF listed rebuilding public sector capacity among its key
priority areas. Given emergency context at the time, this project was prepared under
OP/BP 8.0 that guided the pipeline of emergency projects identified in the Interim
Strategy Note. The project was meant to be aligned to ongoing donor supported Civil
Service reform programs such as DFID‟s CISCAB project as well as pipeline World
Bank operations such as the LICUS Civil Service Reforms Project and the Economic


                                           4
Governance and Institutional Reform Project (EGIRP). The former project was aimed at
supporting the development of relevant policies for the Civil Service e.g. job and pay
grades, and mandates and functional reviews (MFR). The latter would, in addition to
supporting the development of institutions of transparency and accountability in public
financial management, also support the rebuilding of the Civil Service employee database,
as well as some elements of technical capacity building.

The Bank was initially hesitant to proceed with this project because of uncertainties
regarding the sustainability of a project funding short term surge capacity staff. It
was also clear that the project would have a lot of risks, not least of which was the
likelihood of rejection of these recruits by the existing Civil Service structures.
Additionally, in neighboring Sierra Leone, a similar multi-donor SES project had failed
to materialize. And, finally, even though Bank OP/BP 8.00 provided for the use of Bank
funds to support recurrent costs such as salaries, the World Bank had never created or
funded a Senior Executive Service Project before. An economic and financial analysis
conducted during project design concluded that “if skilled and experienced Liberians can
be attracted to the scheme and successfully placed in a performance framework, it is
reasonable to assume that the value they will add will exceed the cost of their services,
hopefully with multiplier effect? ( PAD, p. 38). Consequently, in spite of these risks the
Bank concluded that the SES was likely to have a major development pay off such as
freeing up government resources for use in other sectors. It was also far easier to monitor
SES funding through the PFMU than monitoring government spending under direct
budget support modality in a low capacity environment with high fiduciary risks.

Against this background, the team had three main options:
(i)    Provide direct budget support to government that would enable it to increase
       salaries of civil servants. This option had the risk of antagonizing the already
       fractured legislature with a request to pay for a special program for a select group
       of Civil Servants. With only a minority in the Legislature, there was a risk that
       the government would not have managed to convince the Legislature.
(ii)   Prepare a standard Public Sector Reforms project to build capacity of the public
       service over the long term. The World Bank adopted this strategy and prepared
       two long term operations with elements of Civil Service capacity building namely
       the Economic Governance and Institutional Reforms and the LICUS-Civil
       Service Reform Program. However, this option would not cater to the immediate
       need for relevant technical experts in the Civil Service to help the ministers and
       heads of agencies undertake policy making and implementation.
(iii) Prepare a quick impact project that would provide immediate technical capacity
       to the government as requested by the Country Management Unit (CMU) on the
       basis of the RFTF and related analytical work. The Bank settled on this option,
       leading to the design and funding of the Senior Executive Project.

   b. Quality at Entry (lessons from previous operations)

There was no Quality at Entry (QAE) rating by QAG for the Senior Executive
Service Project because the project was processed within the guidelines of OP/BP



                                            5
8.00.that does not require such a review. Nevertheless, in preparing the project,
account was taken of the Bank‟s experience with paying the salaries of civil servants and
advisers in schemes (though not fully fledged Senior Executive Programs) in other post
conflict countries. These included: Afghanistan, Bolivia, East Timor, and Ecuador. The
team also considered the experience of Tanzania‟s Selected Accelerated Salary
Enhancement scheme (SASE). Some of these countries are comparable to post conflict
Liberia and their lessons helped strengthen the design and execution of the project.

The following lessons were considered during preparation: (i) the need for anchoring
payment of civil service salaries within a broader Civil Service reforms agenda (ii)
developing adequate project management capacity within the agency charged with
managing the Civil Service (CSA, in the case of Liberia) to manage the proposed scheme
and (iii) early development and implementation of a pay reform strategy. Additional
insights were obtained from the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)
which was under preparation during the period. Its focus on strengthening governance
and the rule of law provided initial guidance and strengthened the case for linking this
short term intervention to longer term commitment by the government for broader
reforms in the Civil Service.

   c. Risks and Mitigation

Table 2. Key risks and mitigation

Risks                                                    Mitigation
       Likelihood of resentment among the rest of       a. The SES staff did not occupy line positions
        the civil servants                                    which civil servants would normally occupy.
                                                         b. Strategic roles gave SES credibility and
                                                              application open to qualified civil servants.
       Capture of selection process                     a. Vacancies were advertised widely in both in
                                                              local and international media.
                                                         b. Recruitment was undertaken by a reputable
                                                              HR firm.
       Potential for disruption by unsuccessful         a. Transparency in the recruitment process
        applicants                                            insulated it from potential charges
                                                         b. Involvement of stakeholders from five key
                                                              ministries in the Project Implementation
                                                              Committee.
       Inadequate political and financial support       a. Project Implementation Committee includes
        by the government                                     key ministries: Finance, State, Planning and
                                                              Civil Service Agency. Respective ministers
                                                              are influential members of the Cabinet.
       High salary expectation in the Civil             a. Concurrent Civil Service reform program
        Service                                               outlined a long term agenda for transforming
                                                              pay.
                                                         b. A pay reform strategy was developed and
                                                              implemented during the life of the program
       Inadequate number of qualified applicants        a. Liberians in the Diaspora were specifically
                                                              targeted
                                                         b. High salary package relative to domestic pay;
                                                              included relocation and travel costs.




                                                     6
2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented by the Civil Service Agency, under the guidance of the
Project Implementation Committee (PIC). The PIC comprised the CSA (Chair), the
Office of the President, the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of State, and Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs (Co-Chair). Others were the principal financing agencies,
notably the UNDP, USAID, GIZ and the Bank which participated in the meetings as
observers. Identification of positions was done at the PIC whilst the preparation of
selection criteria, and assessment of candidates, were undertaken by a reputable Human
Resource Management firm reporting to, and under the overall guidance of, the PIC.

The Bank’s financial contribution to this project was managed through the Project
Financial Management Unit (PFMU). This is a separate financial Management entity
within the Ministry of Finance responsible for Bank funded projects. Contributions from
the other donors were managed by UNDP through a Direct Execution Modality (DEX),
instead of the National Execution (NEX) modality, because of the capacity weaknesses in
the implementing agency. Other aspects of project implementation were managed by the
SES secretariat located at the Civil Service Agency.

The Civil Service Agency (CSA) was the main implementing agency, and hosted the
SES Secretariat headed by a Coordinator. The secretariat also had a Project
Accountant and a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Specialist. The SES Secretariat
was responsible for day to day management of all aspects of the SES program, including
recruitment, placement and performance monitoring.         World Bank implementation
support missions dealt directly with the Director General and the Project Coordinator on
matters of project performance, and with the Head of the PFMU on all matters related to
financial management. Consultations with the UNDP and other donors occurred during
PIC meetings and during missions to exchange assessments on implementation. There
was no formal reporting or direct implementation relationship between the World Bank
and the UNDP. The secretariat provided several periodic narrative reports on the progress
of implementation of the overall SES project, including details of the World Bank funded
portion as required by the grant agreement.

Implementation was initially delayed for almost a year due to poor coordination at
the SES Secretariat. The program coordinator was unable to perform satisfactorily. By
February 2008, a decision was taken upon recommendation of the Bank to replace the
coordinator and hire a management consultant to support the recruitment process and
mentor and coach a new national coordinator. As a result, the first wave of recruitment
produced only 15 tier one SES professionals who were funded by other partners. The
bulk of SES professionals including those placed under Bank funding started work in
January 2009. The risk to implementation was therefore timely and adequately mitigated.

As a result of the delay in commencement of implementation, the mid-term review
originally planned for September 2009 was instead conducted in March 2010 by an
independent firm. The midterm review indicated that the SES program was well on its
way to achieving its objective of strengthening government capacity for policy making.



                                           7
Significantly, the mid- term review reported that the program had achieved the objective
of strengthening the executive management of government institutions, reforming the
administrative systems for effective human resource management in the public sector and
advancing the overall reform and development agenda.

The MTR made key recommendations namely :(i) Reduce the level of expectation of
beneficiaries to reflect the realities of post war Liberia (ii) Increase number of women
recruited into the SES positions (iii) Design a communication strategy to sensitize public
on achievement of program (iv) Increase focus on outcomes rather than workload
deliverables and (v) Re-profile existing SES positions within the organizations requesting
new SES assignments. The results of the MTR were consistent with reports from on-
going supervision activities recorded in the ISR as well as in Bank supervision reports.
These reports consistently rated project implementation as Satisfactory. Most of these
recommendations were not implemented during the lifetime of the project. Some of them,
like re-profiling of positions, have just started.

In order to compensate for implementation time lost immediately after effectiveness,
project was restructured on December 29, 2010. The restructuring (a) extended the
closing date from December 31, 2010 to June 30, 2011; and (b) allocated USD 60, 000
from the recurrent costs expenditure category of the project to goods, consultancy and
training expenditure category. The reallocation was necessitated by the need for
resources to cater for certain activities such as the recruitment of a management specialist
that was not anticipated in the original project design. Also, the HR firm that was retained
to manage the recruitment of SES professionals was more expensive than expected.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design

The monitoring and evaluation component of this project was not properly designed
to be able to capture the contributions of the project to the PDO. While the PDO
outlined important areas of relevance to the development objectives of the project,
measurement indicators were mostly output based, and not outcome based. The project
paper, results framework, and the grant agreement each has a different version of the
PDO. For example the project paper indicates that the PDO is to “provide government
with the immediate assistance need to develop a cadre of technical and managerial public
servants who are well motivated to fill an immediate high level capacity gap, while at the
same time assist in transforming the Civil Service into a more professional, effective and
accountable institution of the Government o Liberia? (p.11). On the other hand, the
results framework notes that the PDO is to “provide senior managerial and professional
staff to key ministries, to increase high level capacity and lead reform and restructuring
for better policy making, regulation and improve policy making and service delivering
(p.22).? The ICR will be based on the PDO in the results framework since it has
corresponding outcome indicators.




                                             8
Additionally, outcome indicators were not properly designed. Some outcome
indicators do not have clear corresponding outcome measurements identified. For
example outcome indicator #1: Evidence that leadership capacity in MDAs where SES
staff professionals are placed has discernibly improved. It is unclear from results
framework what constitutes evidence. Similarly, other outcome indicators are designed
as output indicators. For example outcome indicator #2: Participating ministries have
each developed and begun implementing a restructuring plan based on a redefined
mandate, new organizational structures and matching staffing plans.

At the SES personnel level, performance indicators were inserted into annual and
quarterly work plans and reported to supervisors and the secretariat. The outcome
indicators related to performance were measured at three levels related to thirteen output
indicators. Nevertheless, the collection and use of this data was not consistent enough to
permit a basis for measuring performance.

The outcome indicators were divided as follows:

a. Policy level indicators. (i) Impact of policy advice on poverty reduction (ii) impact of
policy advice on national reconstruction objectives (iii) impact of policy advice on civil
service reforms (iv) impact of policy advice on leadership development ion the Civil
Service.
b. Organization level indicators: (i) impact of recommendation at meetings on
organization„s development (ii) impact of performance on other staff (iii) impact of
performance on organizational performance
c. Professional/Technical level indicators: (i) impact of training on skills and
knowledge enhancement (ii) impact of training on service delivery (iii) impact of training
on productivity at the workplace (iv) evidence of management efficiency improvements

Implementation and utilization

The SES Secretariat was responsible for the collection and reporting of indicators
measuring the performance of individual staff as outlined in the performance contract, as
well as the performance of the project itself. Nevertheless, implementation and quality of
this M&E regime was mixed at best. This function was not performed satisfactorily and
when performed, record keeping was not adequate. Supervisors were not diligent in
collecting data on employee performance. As a result, the SES secretariat was not able to
fully implement the M& E activities adequately. Reports were inconsistently filed, and
tended to be incomplete. Part of this problem may have resulted from a design flaw in
merging M&E functions with performance management function which is strictly
speaking an HR function. Yet another possible reason for poor M&E is the weak M& E
capacity in the country generally, and a lack of an M&E culture in the public sector.

Utilization

It is clear that even though there was a weak M&E system, it was not adequately used to
get feedback on the performance of the project generally, and that of the SES



                                            9
professionals in particular. Nevertheless, available data on performance of the SES
professionals was used to determine their continued participation in the program, while
those on program performance were included in the quarterly reports.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment: Project was category C; no environmental effects were anticipated or
experienced.

Social: The Quality team (AFTQK) reviewed the project and declared that it did not
trigger a social safeguards assessment.

Fiduciary management and procurement: Financial management of the project was
highly satisfactory. Management of Bank funds- like in all Bank financed projects- was
undertaken by the Project Financial Management Unit in the Ministry of Finance.
Financial reports were regularly monitored by the Banks Financial Management
Specialist, and procurement was subjected to No Objection procedures. Financial audits
carried annually indicated proper compliance with Bank fiduciary requirements.
Nevertheless, there were some delays on the government side associated with difficulties
with using „Client Connections‟, as well as in submitting requests for „No Objections‟ on
time. There was no evidence of misappropriation or delays in payments for work
performed by contractors and SES professionals. Contracts were honored, and
procurement rules adhered to.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

There are short and long term post completion plans underway. At the closure of the
project, the government urged the World Bank and other donors to continue funding the
project for an additional one year. Consequently, the SES is now funded under the IDA
financed Economic Governance and Institutional Reforms Project (EGIRP). Funding has
been provided for 42 professionals up to the end of 2012. This covers the initial 35
positions covered by the World Bank and additional seven initially covered by the UNDP.
The rest of the 56 SES professionals are covered by additional funding from the GIZ and
USAID.

The government has also retained a consultant to design an exit strategy and post-
SES plan to ensure that the gains of the program are sustained. On this basis, the
government will decide the number of SES positions to keep, or absorb into the Civil
Service. This study is expected to outline specific funding arrangements needed by the
government to take over salaries of the current SES professionals. At the broad Civil
Service reform level, a follow on operation under a Multi Donor Trust Fund for Public
Sector Modernization is under preparation. In addition to the World Bank, SIDA and the
African Development Bank have confirmed participation. This operation is expected to
consolidate reform activities undertaken to date, including providing a long term focus on
manpower and leadership development in the public sector.




                                           10
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives, design and implementation of this project were highly relevant to
address the capacity gaps in the immediate post conflict environment in Liberia.
They remain relevant today given that sourcing and retention of technical skills remain an
important impediment to Liberia‟s development agenda. The project‟s overall objective
of supplying critical capacity needed to rejuvenate public sector administration in post
conflict Liberia supported the resumption of core government operations, accelerated the
design of important government policies, and supported the implementation of activities
related to the Poverty Reduction Strategy. These important activities are consistent with
current Bank priorities outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy, especially the focus
on rebuilding core state institutions as well as the government‟s continued effort of
improving service delivery in the country. Additionally, the objectives are aligned with
the Bank‟s Africa strategy which identifies public sector capacity as a core pillar of
development effectiveness in the region.

Consistency with Government Priorities

The SES project is consistent with current government priorities outlined in the
Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS). The PRS has four strategic areas peace and
security; economic revitalization; governance and rule of law; and peace and security.
The personnel hired under this program have been deployed in the sectors according to
how important the sectors are in achieving the goals of the PRS (see table 3). For
instance, the Ministry of Planning with responsibility over PRS implementation has a
total of 15 staff deployed to various counties as County Development Officers.

Program Design

The program was appropriately designed under OP/BP 8.0 (Rapid Response to
Crises and Emergencies) reflecting the prevailing context. At the time, Liberia was in
arrears to its major creditors including IDA/IBRD, its major productive sectors such as
mining and agriculture had been decimated by war, and the prevailing skills shortage in
government was too acute to support the new government in undertaking the priorities
that had been identified in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy as well as the main
PRS. Moreover, the minority government lacked the legislative strength to support an
exclusive program targeting highly paid civil servants.

Relationship with Bank Strategy

The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy outlines four key themes that are aligned
with the government’s PRS. These are: (i) rebuilding core state functions and
institutions; (ii) rehabilitating infrastructure to jump-start economic growth; and (iii)
facilitating pro-poor growth. The SES program was designed to reflect these priorities
especially the Bank‟s effort to support broad civil service reforms program. In all these



                                           11
three areas of the strategy, the SES remained an important program through which the
objectives of the CAS were met. As anticipated in the CAS, there has been significant
progress in steps towards a functioning Civil Service, reorganization in government,
transparency in payroll, and the removal of ghost workers from the payroll.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project made progress towards achieving its objectives in a difficult post
conflict context. It facilitated the provision of critical technical expertise that enabled
the government to undertake important policy actions during the three year period. The
professionals employed under this program supported activities that contributed to
efficient functioning of the public sector, including policy making and implementation.
Over 90 percent of them were deemed to have performed satisfactorily (outcome
indicator 1). It is in the restructuring and implementation of new mandates and structures
that progress has been slow (outcome indicator 2).

Outcome Indicator 1: Evidence that leadership capacity in MDAs where SES staff is
placed has discernibly improved.

The hiring of SES professionals and their placement in various ministries and
agencies improved the functioning of these ministries. Over the past three years, these
ministries and agencies with SES participation have been able to produce a number of
policy documents, implement important government programs, and initiate various
reforms with significant impact on Liberians ( see table 3). The assignment of SES
professionals to these ministries was guided by the various PRS objectives, arranged in
three pillars. To facilitate the achievement of PRS objectives, each strategic area or pillar
had a performance matrix outlining the strategic objective, indicators, delivery date and
responsible lead agency or ministry. Responsibility for monitoring and ensuring that the
PRS deliverables are on track at the national and sub-national levels, however, has
largely been assumed by the SES. These professionals‟ roles were mostly visible in
ministries responsible for pillar 2 and 3 of the three PRS pillars namely: revitalizing the
economy and strengthening Governance and the Rule of Law respectively. Pillar one
dealt with consolidating peace and security.

Approximately half (48) of the SES professionals were placed in four ministries and
three key government agencies that were strategically linked to the PRS. These were:
The Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs ( 15), the Ministry of Finance (6) the
Ministry of Agriculture (6), the Ministry of Public Works (6), the Governance
Commission (5), the Civil Service Agency(5), and the Liberia Institute of Statistics and
Geo-information Sciences (5). These ministries and agencies were not only critical to the
implementation of the PRS (food security, infrastructure, economic management), but
were also expected, like the CSA and GC, to lead institutional reforms in the public
sector. Given the level of destruction and disorganization in the public sector at the
inception of this program, it is possible to claim a causal linkage between the presence of
SES professionals in these ministries and agencies over the past three year and the
positive improvements in the governance of these ministries



                                             12
Table 3. Performance of PRS pillar ministries with SES professionals

                  Achievements                                        SES hosting ministries
                                 PRS Pillar 2: Revitalizing the Economy
                  Implementation of the debt recovery plan leading    Finance
                  to HIPC completion and debt waiver by Paris
                  Club; Review of HIPC Audit report for
                  compliance, establishment and leadership of the
                  small tax division
                  Coordination and management of local level          Planning and Economic Affairs
                  development by County Development Officers;
                  Finalization of Labor Market Survey; Finalization
                  of National Employment Policy; Finalization of the
                  National Capacity Development Strategy;
                  Improved coordination of the County development
                  steering committees
                  Facilitated negotiations with concession companies Agriculture
                  on Cassava Sector Initiative, Developed M&E
                  framework for the Liberia Agriculture sector
                  Investment Plan;
                  Finalized National Trade Policy; developed          Commerce
                  National Trade Policy; drafted microfinance
                  policy; Prepared concept note for the development
                  of the Rattan and Bamboo industries; Designed the
                  first National Standards Laboratory for
                  Liberia ;drafted Alcohol and Beverages Policy

                             PRS Pillar 3: Governance and the Rule of Law
                  Development of the Employee Biometric                 Civil Service Agency
                  Identification System; supported the development
                  of the national identification registry,; Preparation
                  of procedures for payroll rationalization leading to
                  the removal of “ghost workers‟ from the payroll;
                  supported the implementation of Civil Service
                  Reform Strategy; Finalization of the Liberia Pay
                  and Grading Reforms Strategy; Payroll audit of
                  Min. of education,
                  Training and deployment of magistrates ; Improved Justice
                  attention to gender based violence through the
                  establishment and leadership of the Gender Based
                  Violence Unit
                  Completion of mandates and functional reviews of      Governance Commission
                  ministries and agencies ; Draft Whistle Blower
                  Protection Act; Concept Note for National
                  Integrity Forum leading to its establishment;
                  coordinated legislative engagement for the a code
                  of conduct for public officials; Draft employee
                  non- disclosure agreement;
Source: SES Secretariat

The PDO envisaged that the surge capacity provided by the SES professionals
would improve the ministries and agencies’ effectiveness in policy making and
service delivery. This is evidenced by improvements in various standard indicators of


                                                 13
state effectiveness such as the Bertelsmann Transformation Index (BTI). The BTI
measures (on a scale of 1(worst) to 10 (best) how countries have successfully managed
their transformation and ranking them along two indices: (i) Status Index (market
economy status and democracy status) and (ii) Management Index (management
performance and Level of difficulty). Liberia‟s transformation has been on the rise since
2006. Of note is that the BTI for 2010 ranks Liberia successful (with weaknesses) in its
Management Index (31 out of 128 countries), ahead of all countries in West and Central
Africa region except Ghana, Benin and Mali. Only 8 out of 128 ranked countries
globally are fully successfully.

Table 4. Improved performance on the Bertelsmann Transformation Index

Indicator            Definition                                        2006   2008   2010
Status Index         Measures a country‟s achieved state of            2.8    4.2    5.1
                     development on the way to democracy and a
                     market economy
Market Economy       Measures socio economic level, market             2.4    3.1    4.0
Status               organization, currency and price stability,
                     private property, welfare regime, economic
                     performance, sustainability
Democracy Status     Measures stateness, political participation,      3.2    5.3    6.2
                     rule of law, stability of democratic
                     institutions, political and social integration.
Management           Measures quality of governance among              3.6    5.0    6.0
Index                decision makers
Management          Measures steering capability, resource             3.7    5.2    6.4
performance         efficiency, consensus building, international
                    cooperation
Level of Difficulty Measures structural conditions such as             8.9    7.9    7.5
                    drought or civil war that hinder steering a
                    country towards positive change
Source: www.bertelsmann-transformation-index.de/

Outcome Indicator 2: Progress towards organizational restructuring in ministries
and agencies.
The various initiatives undertaken by the government over the past three years have
contributed to improvement in state capacity and overall quality of the public sector. In
these areas, SES professionals have contributed to significant institutional reforms across
government, but also within ministries and agencies where they have been deployed.
The PDO outcome indicator anticipated that by the end of the project at least eight
ministries and agencies would have developed and begun implementing a
restructuring plan based on a redefined mandate, new organizational structure and
matching staffing plans. By the close of the project, only six of the participating
ministries and agencies had each developed or begun implementing a restructuring plan
based on a redefined mandate, new organizational structure and matching staffing plans.
These were: Civil Service Agency, Ministries of Public Works; Health and Welfare;
Agriculture; Information and Tourism; and Governance Commission. The process of
restructuring the Ministries of Finance and that of Planning and Economic Affairs was
delayed by a cabinet decision to merge these two ministries. This was a major political


                                                    14
decision, with significant effects on the structure of governance, well beyond the control
of the project. Nevertheless, an important achievement of the restructuring in the
ministries above has been the domino effect of catalyzing restructuring in almost all
ministries.

Since the beginning of the restructuring process in the ministries above, several
other ministries have now initiated restructuring plan of their own and are at
various stages of the process. These include: Education, Justice, Transport and
Communication, Lands and Mines, National Investment Commission, Ministry of Gender,
Vice President‟s Office and Ministry of Foreign Affairs among others. A new Bank
support project will support the implementation of the new structures across the
government. In the majority of these ministries, SES professional have either led or have
been key members of the Institutional Reform Committees (IRC) that coordinates
restructuring program at the ministry or agency level. Also noteworthy is that SES
professionals are the key managers of the government wide reform program both at the
Civil Service Agency and the Governance Commission. Given the work that the SES
professionals have undertaken to support the design of reorganization plans as well as
initial policies that are consistent with the missions of the ministries and agencies (M&A),
the latter are now better placed to undertake the reorganization and restructuring.

3.3 Efficiency

The SES program proved to be an efficient and cost effective way of attracting
skilled professionals into the Civil Service. In an emerging post conflict country, an
alternative option would have been to hire local consultants or international advisers.
This would not only have been extremely expensive, but also undermined the
government‟s reconstruction agenda. Using Liberians to perform critical functions of
rebuilding their own country supported the emergence of a critical mass of professional
within government that might have a multiplier effect.

   a. Comparison with Tanzania’s Selective Accelerated Salaries Enhancement
      Program (SASEP)

In Tanzania, the Selective Accelerated Salaries Enhancement Program (SASEP), like the
SES, aimed to attract and retain professional, qualified technical and managerial
personnel for improved service delivery. One of the weakness that undermined the
efficiency of the SASEP, was that increased salaries tended to benefit only headquarter
employees, and not widespread enough to cover rural areas. In spite of targeting about
1,700 employees, its reach and coverage was limited to only four ministries and agencies.
The supplemental salaries were not used to attract personnel to the rural areas. The
program also led to increase in inefficiencies such (a) rapid growth of employment
allowances in the recurrent budget (b) the re-emergence of project implementation units
and (c) the proliferation of workshops (and comparable forums) and the payments of
various forms of attendance fees and honoraria (Therkildsen & Tidemand , 2007). These
increased the cost of the program, and ultimately, its selectiveness and inefficiency led to
its discontinuation, having lost support inside the government. The SES on the other



                                            15
hand used the increased salaries to attract many employees to work in the counties in
Liberia‟s rural areas. Fully 15 professionals were recruited as County Development
Officers. More importantly, non salary expenditure was kept to a minimum. For instance,
expenditures such as workshops, trainings, travel allowances, office supplies, vehicle
hires, which tend to account for many project costs accounted for only 10 percent of the
initially budgeted USD25,000. The program was thus run efficiently within budget.

    b. Comparison with standard Bank funded project consultants

The Economic Governance and Institutional Reforms Project (2007-2010) was designed
around the same time as the SES project. Given the shortage of skills in government, the
EGIRP anticipated funding for international consultants to perform critical functions on
behalf of the government. Internationally recruited advisers under the Governance and
Economic Management Assistance Program (GEMAP) were also paid at almost the same
levels as those of Bank projects (table 5).

Table 5: Bank projects paid more to consultants than SES project

                Position                   Unit Cost (USD) /year              Total for 3 years
EGIRP Project              SES          Project        SES               Project        SES
Project Coordinator        Sr.Econ.     100,000        36,000            300,000        108,000
                           Analyst
Policy Advisor to MoF      Director,    120,000         36,000           360,000       108,000
                           Small Tax
Source: Word Bank. 2008. EGIRP Project Appraisal Document, p.61.

    c. Comparison with other employers in the Liberian market

But, the SES program also was cost effective when compared with what the other
employers such as Banks and international NGOs were paying in Liberia during that
period (table 6). The lowest SES salary category (Tier 1) corresponded with grade 10 on
the 15 grade Civil Service pay structure. A 2008 market salary survey revealed that SES
salaries were competitive at the minimum level (USD1,000)for comparative grades in
public corporations and international NGOs. This changed at the medium (USD2, 000)
and maximum level (USD3, 000) where they became less competitive against banks and
donors.

Table 6: SES salaries compares favorably with median monthly salaries elsewhere

Job       Donors      Banks      International    Public           GOL        GOL+           SES
Band                             NGOs             Corporations                Allowances
10        1,643       1,400      800              518              90         500            1,000
11        1,878       1,400      800              544              94         550
12        2,322       2,284      1,064            677              100        600            2,000
13        2,726       3,334      1,064            839              109        650            3,000
14        2,885       3,334      1,064            1,200            113        700            3,000
15        3,276       3,334      1,064            1,680            120        750            3,000
Source: GOL. 2009. Medium Term Pay and Grading Strategy, p.40.



                                               16
    d. Comparison with Transfer of Knowledge Through Expatriate Nationals
        (TOKTEN)
The TOKTEN program had a similar design as the SES, but its features were remarkably
different. Initially targeting only 30 professional by the evaluation of the second phase in
October 2011, it had recruited over 70 professionals. Unlike the SES which was
transparent and competitive in its recruitment process, in TOKTEN, ministers (in other
cases, the President) could request the employment of individuals under this program.
Unlike the SES where salaries ranged from USD 1,000-3,000, based on skills, TOKTEN
paid USD 2,500 for locally recruited professionals and USD 3,500 for professional
returning from overseas. Contracts varied from six to 18 months.

    e. Turnover rates over the period
There were 38 professionals who left the Senior Executive Service for a variety of
reasons. Five of these were in Tier 2 covered by World Bank contribution. Six of the 38
professionals left the program as a result of promotions to political positions within the
government. Their promotion resulted from exceptional performance and qualification as
well as recommendations from heads of institutions to the appointing authority. A total of
19 professionals left the program to join the private sector or other local and international
organizations in the country. A total of 13 professionals were dismissed because of poor
performance. Even though the rate of return may appear high (about 38 percent) it is also
important to note that most of these professionals remained in the country either in the
private sector or as political appointees, thus representing a net gain. For instance, of the
five who left from Tier 2, one was promoted to a ministerial position; two joined the
private sector (one under a USAID funded project), another was promoted internally to
manage a large donor project. The final one left the country.

    f. Competitive hiring attracted qualified personnel into the government
The program was able to attract highly qualified professionals into the government (table
7). The majority of the program participants had second degrees, and had experience
working either locally in the NGO or private sector or outside the country. They were
thus able to leverage this experience in the performance of their duties in their new
positions in government.        About 25 were already working in government as civil
servants and were familiar with its various problems, and were thus uniquely qualified to
participate in its strengthening. Only 15 of were recruited from the Diaspora. Of the total
98 that finally took their posts, 15 were women.

Table 7. The majority of SES professionals hold master’s degrees

Position                                   Ministry/agency                  Qualification
Psycho Social Counselor                    Min. Youth & Sports              BSc; MSc
Agr. Economist                             Min. of Agriculture              BSc; MPA
Monitoring/evaluation Officer.             MPW                              BA
Director of Libraries                      CNDRA                            BSc; MLS
Budget Economist                           MoF                              BSc; MBA
Legal, Nat‟l Integrity PM                  Governance Comm                  BA, LLB
County Dev. officer                        Min. of Planning                 BA
County Dev. Officer                        Min. of Planning                 BSC; MPH
County Dev. Officer                        Min. of Planning                 BSC; MPA


                                             17
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BSc
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BA
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BSc; MSc
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BSc. MA
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                B.Th; MBA
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BSc
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BBA
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BA; MA
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                B.Th. MTS
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                B.Tech; M.Tech
County Dev. Officer                      Min. of Planning                BBA, MSc
County Dev. officer                      Min. of Planning                BBA, MSc
Database Specialist                      CSA                             BSc; MBA
Wage/Salary Administrator                CSA                             BBA
Legal Counsel                            MoS                             BA, LLB
HR Specialist                            MoI                             BBA, MBA
Criminal Justice Specialist              MCC                             BSc, MA
Budget Economist                         MoF                             BSc. MA
Small Tax Director                       MoF                             BSc, MBA
Program Officer                          Ministry of Gender              BA, MA
Social Welfare Coordinator               MoH/SW                          BSc., MSW
Tourism Specialist                       Min. Information                BA
Management Specialist                    Mon. City Corp.                 BBA
Youth Dev. Specialist                    Youth/Sports
M & E Specialist                         Govern. Comm                    MA, BA
Sr. Revenue Auditor                      General Auditing                BBA, MSc
Source: SES Secretariat.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The IEG criteria for judging overall outcome rating is based on achievement,
efficiency and relevance. The project was highly relevant and its design and
implementation reflected its relevance to the development objective. The focus on
funding a small group of national professionals to provide surge capacity to support
ministers in policy making helped stabilize state capacity at a critical time. The PDO
remains relevant not only to the country poverty reduction strategy, and the Bank‟s
country assistance strategy. There has been improvements in policy making- several
policies and laws have been designed and implemented and in indicators of state
effectiveness have improved. More significantly, the three year project delivered great
value for money compared to similar programs inside and outside the country. Funds
were efficiently used for the payment of salaries as required by the project. Overhead
costs were kept to a minimum, while value for many was achieved by hiring qualified
professionals at a fraction of the amount usually quoted for consultants on Bank funded
projects. Progress in restructuring and reorganization of ministries and agencies however,
was not completed and remained the most visible shortcoming of the project.




                                           18
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

It is difficult to measure the impact of the SES program on poverty, gender and
social development. Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the various SES staff performed
important policy roles that may have long term effect on these important areas. While it
is difficult to determine the causal linkages between the SES programs, and for example
an increase in the number of children enrolled in school, it is worth noting that SES
program staff were embedded in critical ministries and performed important functions
that have direct bearing on all these areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The SES program has supported the strengthening of the public sector and service
delivery in Liberia. The various policy initiatives that have been undertaken by SES
experts in the government will have long term impacts on capacity building within the
government as well as on institutional development broadly. Indeed, results of the mid-
term review suggest that about 77 percent of SES supervisors indicated that SES is
critical to meeting future needs of their organizations.

 SES professionals have performed well in transferring knowledge in institutions
where they are assigned.         Some have conducted training and mentored staff
working under them. The Midterm review reported that f 64 percent and 60 percent of
supervisors and colleagues respectively indicate that SES models the new Civil Service
with respect to results orientation, skills in building relationships, team leadership, and
team playing skills. SES professionals have also risen to positions of responsibility within
the public sector as well as the private sector where they continue to offer strong
leadership in the country‟s development. These former SES remain key players in
government, making important policy decisions that not only support institutional
development in specific ministries, but also shaping overall national development goals.
For instance, in the Ministry of Education, under the leadership of a former SES
professional, the ministry has developed a new Sector Strategy paper and initiated a
decentralization program.

   (b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

This program was intended to be a short-term donor funded program to introduce
surge capacity to the public sector. But, it has led to continued dependence of the
Government on donor funding. While government revenues have continued to rise in the
succeeding years, there has not been a commensurate initiative by the government to
wean out of donor funding to support these critical functions on government‟s payroll.
Government seems unable to take the initiative to quickly absorb the SES participants
into the Civil Service as originally intended. Nor has it embarked on the implementation
of pay reform in a way that could provide the basis for entry of SES staff into the Civil
Service. On the positive side, the SES program has also provided the government with a



                                            19
ready recruitment pool for political appointments. A couple of former SES professionals
are now serving as Ministers at various levels.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
During the Stakeholder workshop, the following issues arose:

   Those recruited and deployed by SES are Liberians and are willing to encounter the
    challenges posed by their various assignments. Since the SES does not have a
    retirement plan, there should be upward adjustments of salaries, either from GOL or
    the donors for the purposes of motivation.
   Some SES terms of reference are in conflict with positions within the ministries and
    agencies. There is a need for SES to investigate the existing structures within these
    entities prior to the deployment of professionals.
   No matter how qualified or how experienced a professional is, the environment is a
    key factor achieving the desired reforms. Qualified and well compensated staffs are
    needed in the counties to facilitate the realization of the desired results of the
    country‟s decentralization plan. The professionals need to work with people who
    have the capacity to replicate or drive reforms.
   The professionals recruited and assigned by SES are qualified and experienced, but
    conditions, challenges and environments differ. There is a need for a short-term
    retraining; not necessarily in the core of the discipline, but to provide orientations in
    the conditions, challenges and environments. SES should blend technical
    competence with social skills.
   The Program (SES with the support of GOL and Donors) should establish an
    accomplishment realization package. This should go beyond the recruitment and
    deployment of professionals. There should be logistical support and supplemental
    budget for the SES by the Government of Liberia. With the availability of this
    package, SES personnel could make tremendous progress in driving the necessary
    reforms.
   The Program should rotate County Development Planning Officers across the
    country.
   The Program should develop a mechanism for feedback on periodic basis – either
    through a newsletter, quarterly forum, public awareness through radio and other
    media, etc.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The government will need to make a lot of effort to ensure that the gains made
under this project are not lost. There are still numerous capacity weaknesses in the
public sector. The government has made progress in undertaking Civil Service reforms,
to organize the public service. This has included efforts to improve pay, rationalize
positions and clarify mandates and functions. These efforts would need to be continued
in order to ensure that the gains made under this project do not suffer setbacks.



                                            20
There is increased support for the program among various key stakeholders. Within
the Civil Service, the SES program has set the pace for standard of performance, and
provided a basis for judging potential remuneration levels for senior civil servants. It is
conceivable that in the short to medium term, the government will continue to support the
program, and even replicate it for hiring entry level high performing personnel into the
Civil Service.

Donor partners continue to show continued interest in supporting the development
of the public sector through various capacity building initiatives. The government has
indicated its commitment to meeting this demand through a number of measures. Given
the increase in government revenue, and projected economic growth, financial support
for a skilled and professional Civil Service is a goal the government can accomplish in
the short to medium term. Government‟s commitment to Civil Service reforms and to
capacity building also makes investment in this area moderate risk.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

There was adequate preparation by the Bank to ensure proper design of the project.
The design was influenced by Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy and as such was
located within the broader strategic and contextual situation during entry. There were
consultations and joint assessments with other partners, notably the UNDP. This allowed
for better understanding of the risks and identification of their mitigation. This
collaboration continued during implementation. The project itself was implemented as a
joint operation among donors, but with UNDP and Bank playing a leading role.

Implementation arrangement was sufficiently made to ensure coordination between
key stakeholders and the donors, including the Bank. The major decisions taken by all
the donor partners among them the World Bank to establish a project management unit,
hire SES staff through an independent HR firm, and finally to provide a three year time
frame for the project were useful in ensuring judicious management of the project. More
importantly, Bank decision to use the PFMU to manage the fiduciary aspects of the
project was prudent given the limited capacity of the implementing agency in financial
management.

The project was closely aligned with the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (2006-
2008), especially its four pillars: revitalizing the economy, strengthening governance
and rule of law, and rehabilitating infrastructure and delivering basic services. It was also
aligned to on- going and pipeline projects with relevance to Civil Service reforms and
benefited from continuous input from sector colleagues preparing related operations.
Projects such as the Economic Governance and Institutional Reforms ( 2008-2011) and
the LICUS Civil Service Reforms Project ( 2008-2011) as well as ongoing Civil Service



                                             21
Reforms program supported by other partners, notably DFID. Additionally, the project
team benefited from the support and cooperation of the Economic Governance Group
through regular meetings and guidance on the design, implementation and identification
of funding sources for the said project

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank supervision was adequate throughout the project. There was frequent
interaction between the task team and the project management unit as well as with
government counterparts in the Project Implementation Committee (PIC). Additionally,
Bank decision to participate on the PIC increased the level of Bank‟s attention to quality
both at entry and subsequently during the implementation.

Supervision occurred regularly and was broad in scope covering visits to various
ministries and agencies where SES professionals were deployed. As part of
supervision, task team participated in the PIC meetings, selection of staff, and in review
of reports and procurement requests. The Task team promptly responded to disbursement
issues in the project, and proceeded to restructure. The decision to restructure the project
and reallocate proceeds was prudent given that additional time and resources were
required to ensure achievement of project objectives. More importantly it was an
opportunity for the government to begin thinking about the sustainability of the SES
program after the eventual closure of the project. The Government at this point began to
consider working on an exit strategy, as well as engaging more broadly on how
government‟s own funding could be utilized for this purpose.

Project leadership over the three year period was fairly consistent. Even though there
was a change in TTL, this did not pose any problems since the successor TTL had been a
core member of the task team. This ensured continuity of the project with no disruption.
The task team properly and timely documented the progress of implementation. This
included financial reports as well as mission documents and project related
correspondence. Detailed ISR not only give a clear picture of project performance at
specific periods in time, but were also completed and filed properly.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank played an important role in the establishment of this project, and
continued to be a key player during the implementation. The project had sufficient
funds to meet its obligations both to the staff and to the project implementation unit.
Bank maintained policy dialogue with the government and responded creatively
whenever challenges arose. For instance when it became necessary to improve the
capacity of the project implementation unit, the Bank supported the hiring of a
management consultant to provide technical assistance to the unit.



                                            22
More importantly project team established linkages between this project and other
projects on civil service reforms. Joint supervision missions comprising SES project
team and the Civil Service Reform project task team ensured that cross cutting issues of
civil service reforms were identified and addressed within a broader context of reforms.
More importantly, task team had adequate resources to conduct supervision.

 1.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government’s support for the project was strong. Of the nine IEG criteria for
evaluation of government performance, the only one that the government did not meet
satisfactorily was in the adequacy of transition arrangement for regular operation of
supported activities after Loan/Credit closing. Throughout the project, the government
provided the political support and high level ownership necessary to sustain the project.
There was sufficient enabling institutional environment to support the effectiveness of the
project. There was no interference in the selection process, a risk that had been identified
during preparation.      The stakeholders were adequately involved, including in
participation as members of the Project Implementation Committee.

Nevertheless, key implementation issues were not addressed adequately. For example,
weak attention to monitoring and evaluation of the program as well as data collection on
the performance of the professionals affected the ability of the secretariat to make timely
reports on the progress of the program.           It is however, noteworthy that some
implementation issues were dealt with promptly. Issues relating to the posting and
placement of SES professionals were adequately covered; additional setbacks such as
program administration were handled adequately and were timely resolved e.g. when the
project faced difficulties the government quickly contracted the services of management
specialist to advise and strengthen the secretariat. Additionally, there were no fiduciary
issues reported. Finally, donor coordination and partnership was enhanced through
regular meetings and consultations.

However, the government was fully aware that the SES would close at the end of
three years, but did not initiate specific efforts to absorb the staff into the payroll as
had been agreed. Consequently, there was a lot of scrambling towards the end of the
project to find additional sources of funding for the project. A proposed exit strategy was
not designed, and even though government has committed to fully absorb the SES staff
into its payroll at the end of 2012, it is not clear if this will actually happen given the
absence of a sound analytical basis for this plan.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementing agency performed satisfactorily The CSA played a critical role in
managing the project during a difficult period of low capacity. The Director General
of the CSA co-chaired the Project Implementation Committee (PIC) and oversaw the



                                            23
activities of the SES Secretariat. The CSA convened periodic meetings of the PIC as
well several meetings with donor partners. Its commitment to the objectives of the
project was demonstrated by the careful selection and placement of the SES staff into
strategic ministries that were related to core PRS objectives. For instance 15 SES
professionals were deployed to the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs to
function as County Development Officers- responsible for PRS at the local level. Like
the government, the implementing agency also performed satisfactorily in eight of the
nine criteria for measuring performance of implementing agency.

However, as a result of limited capacity of CSA staff, overall supervision of the
implementation process sometimes lagged behind. The quarterly reports were rarely
submitted on time and important milestones in the project such as the design of an exit
strategy including the absorption of civil servants into the payroll were never
implemented in a timely manner.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This is justified by the following reasons based on IEG criteria for rating borrower
performance:
    a. Both agency and government displayed strong commitment and ownership of the
        project through support to its implementation
    b. There was adequate stakeholder consultation and participation during
        implementation through Project Implementation Committee
    c. The institutional environment for the success of the project was provided by a
        careful selection process as well as placement of staff in key roles in receiving
        ministries and agencies
    d. Implementation readiness was enhanced and displayed by the quick establishment
        of the secretariat and the location of the secretariat within the Civil Service
        Agency
    e. Implementation issues were resolved quickly for example the hiring of
        management specialist to strengthen the secretariat
    f. There were no fiduciary problems encountered during implementation
    g. There was adequate interaction with donor partners through regular meetings



6. Lessons Learned
    Simple and relatively inexpensive projects are low risk and can deliver high
      impact results in low capacity fragile environments. They are easy to supervise,
      and could be effective in rallying around donors in difficult contexts immediately
      after conflict while providing immediate capacity needed to undertake other
      important reconstruction projects. The SES operation was designed with two
      straight forward components, with a small budget. For a country emerging from
      conflict, and with very little implementation capacity, a multi-donor approach not



                                           24
    only provided the requisite financial support for the project, but also helped
    support coordinated and collaborative implementation supervision.

   In countries emerging from conflict, quick surge capacity can help accelerate
    the pace of reforms and broader institutional building. Countries in post
    conflict situations, characterized by complete institutional collapse, should
    consider carefully the level of ambition of capacity initiatives, including
    undertaking a level of analysis of lessons learned from previous attempts on the
    provision of “surge capacity?. The program would, most likely, be susceptible to
    local capacity challenges. Short term technical assistance should be factored into
    the design and deployed early during the program implementation, and should
    maintain continuous support and oversight.

   Program such SES are not always controversial, especially when applied in
    low capacity environments. Recruiting former high profile political appointees
    for assignments in their former organizations requires special consideration.
    Handled poorly, it can engender hostility or fear. Handled well, the SES can bring
    valuable institutional memory to support government operations after the
    emergency period. Matching the skills and capabilities of program “recruits? into
    the recipient institutions requires detailed “matching-making? and a carefully
    managed integration/support process (again this can come from specialized
    technical assistance).

   Quality should not be sacrificed for quantity. Whilst the needs for additional
    “hands? on capacity is overwhelming, especially in the early days of emergence
    from conflict, it is important to be realistic about the numbers of individuals
    required. A few highly qualified, able and technically specialized individuals may
    make a longer terms sustainable impact, than a larger number of individuals at
    different skill levels – simply filling perceived gaps across a range of institutions
    and agencies.

   Success of selective programs such as SES depends on the neutrality of the
    selection process. The use of competitive recruitment processes and performance
    contracts can have a positive effect on SES recruits, can raise their status within
    the public workforce, and serve as an incentive to achieve performance goals. In
    weak capacity environments, selection of SES must be based on an appropriate
    mix of technical as well as social skills.

   Targeted allocation of staff to core agencies could potentially yield more
    impact. Understanding the public administration culture and the drivers of
    performance and causes of non-performance is critical to the design of capacity
    initiatives. In cultures that are driven largely by relationships and loyalty, a shift to


                                           25
    results orientation and performance-driven systems will be resisted at all levels.
    Arrangements for information and experience sharing should be included as
    performance indicator.

   When linked to broader reforms in the civil service, M&E processes of short
    term programs such as this one must be linked to M&E processes of broader
    civil service reforms. Linkages should be built between capacity programs to
    provide an opportunity to transfer highly-skilled individuals between programs
    after completing their tenures of service. Close supervision of such operations
    enable teams to quickly intervene appropriately to correct and implementations
    bottlenecks, while also providing opportunities for ensuring that there is
    continuous focus on the broader issues of development, of which a project such as
    this one, is only part.

    There is need to manage expectations. Expectations and status of contractors
    under these short term capacity initiatives need to be clarified and communicated
    to the staff and to host institutions in advance of the selection and recruitment
    process; and re-stated during the on-boarding process. Clarity around the benefits
    package needs to be addressed up front as well as issues around identify cards,
    withholding taxes or level of seniority as these can distract from the core
    performance goals of the program.

   The Diaspora as the sole recruitment pool for such programs at modest
    remuneration is highly overstated and unlikely to deliver the skills sets
    required. While targeting the Diaspora for recruitment should be considered, the
    readily available pool of applicants would most likely come from those at the end
    or beginning of their careers, or even from those simply looking for a “vehicle to
    get back home?. Experienced professionals in the Diaspora at the top of their
    careers or moving upward are the most needed and the least likely to apply for
    available vacancies. Attention should also be paid to existing civil servants who,
    with additional training and support may be able to provide the skills that are
    required. Continual analysis of the sources of recruitment is required to keep track
    of where skills training and targeted sensitization course are needed (e.g. how to
    work in a civil service).

   Stakeholder involvement and participation is critical. In innovative programs
    such as the SES, understanding stakeholders‟ perspectives should be a critical
    consideration in the design, monitoring, and evaluation. A continual focus on
    results and deliverables from individuals recruited should inform the
    implementation arrangements and the necessity for targeted technical assistance
    support. Also oversight and monitoring of line managers support and interactions
    with the recruited individuals is essential and needs to be tracked. A


                                         26
      communications strategy is critical to place correct information in the public
      domain and to dealing with misinformation and apprehensions.

     Governments should define clear exit strategy, supported by development
      partners. Such as a strategy should be gradual, and donor supported to allow
      government to incrementally absorb staff into its payroll. Governments in low
      capacity-low resource environments are unlikely to design an exit strategy, unless
      there is specific advice and support from development partners. A focus on donor
      exit strategy rather than government exit strategy signals to government that donor
      support is not indefinite, but leaves an unmanageable and unsustainable situation
      when donor funding terminates.
                                             7. Comments on Issues Raised by
Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Co-financiers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                           27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                    Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                     Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)


         Total Baseline Cost           2.30               2.30
Physical Contingencies
                                       0.00               0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                       0.00               0.00           0.00
          Total Project Costs          0.00               0.00
Front-end fee PPF                      0.00               0.00           .00
Front-end fee IBRD                     0.00               0.00           .00
   Total Financing Required            0.00               0.00



(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal     Actual/Late
                                  Type of     Estimate      st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                Cofinancing     (USD           (USD     of Appraisal
                                              millions)      millions)
Borrower                                    0.00           0.00         .00
Special Financing                           2.30           0.00         .00




                                        28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: recruitment of members for the SES Scheme

Objective: Identification of critical leadership positions and recruitment of senior
professionals and managerial staff as members of SES, drawn from within and outside
the civil service, under three year performance contracts at competitive salaries.

Table 1.

Intermediate           Baseline        Target         Final Outcome      Difference
Outcome
Indicators
Number of SES          None            35             35                 0
positions recruited
against clear job
descriptions and
placed in key
ministries in three
tranches under
performance
contracts

Component 2: Management of the SES Scheme
Objective: Putting in place a management structure for the scheme to ensure leadership
positions are identified by ministries, job descriptions drawn up, qualified candidates are
selected and employed under performance contracts reviewed annually.

Table 2.

Intermediate           Baseline        Target         Final Outcome      Difference
outcome Indicator
Preparation of         None            13             14                 +1
quarterly reports

PDO outcome            Baseline        Target         Final Outcome      Difference
Indicator
Regular meetings of    None            13             15                 +2
the Project
Implementation
Committee




                                            29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)
Not applicable




                                      30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Lisa Bhansali              Adviser                           LCSOS
Smile Kwawukume            Senior Public Sector Specialist   AFTPR
Michael L. O. Stevens      Consultant                        MNSPS
Baba Imoru Abdulai         Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Owusu Mensah Agyei         Consultant                        AFTFM

Supervision/ICR
Smile Kwawukume            Senior Public Sector Specialist   AFTPR
Raymond Muhula             Public Sector Specialist          AFTPR
Baba Imoru Abdulai         Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Owusu Mensah Agyei         Consultant                        AFTFM
Samuel Bruce-Smith         Consultant                        AFTAR
Esther Bryant              Team Assistant                    AFMLR
Serena Cavicchi            Consultant                        AFCGH
Maxwell Bruku Dapaah       Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Giulio De Tommaso          Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.      AFTPR
Emmanuel Doe Fiadzo        Senior Economist                  AFTP3
                           Monitoring & Evaluation
Anders Jensen                                                AFTDE
                           Specialist
David Hope Kanu            E T Consultant                    AFTFM
Anna Kristiina Karjanlahti Consultant                        AFTP4
Anthony Mensa-Bonsu        Consultant                        AFTHE
Rebecca Simson             E T Consultant                    AFTP2
Amadou Tidiane Toure       Lead Procurement Specialist       SARPS
Theodore S. Dreger         Governance Specialist             PRMPS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending

                          Total:                                      24.00
Supervision/ICR
                          Total:                                      75.00


                                          31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not Applicable.




                                      32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

   SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE (SES) PROGRAM BENEFICIARY MEETING
             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
                       Friday, December 2, 2011
                        Corina Hotel, Monrovia

Introduction

The SES Program pilot phase of three (3) years covering the Government of Liberia‟s
Poverty reduction Strategy period came to an end June 2011. The results and impact of
the program over the years have been catalogued in the Mid-Term Evaluation and the
Success Stories Documentation. It is worth noting that almost all of our donor institutions
and Governments have acknowledged the good work and pledged their continuous
support for continuity of the program for additional years.

As a requirement of the completion of a project by the World Bank, the World Bank
requires an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) The SES Secretariat has submitted
its ICR to the Bank and the Bank has opted to solicit the inputs, views and
recommendations of the direct beneficiaries – the SES Professionals in framing its ICR.

Therefore, the purpose of this session is an overall review of the program and information
sharing by the SES beneficiaries themselves with the purpose of assisting with the Bank‟s
ICR.

Objectives

The overall objective of the Survey Session is to review the program with the objective
of sharing practical experiences and information of the work environment, discuss the
current status of the program and the way forward towards the design of the next phase.
Specifically, the Session will:

i. Assess and analyze the extent to which the SES has accomplished its original
objectives, highlighting reasons for success and failures in each case and continued
relevance and ratings;

ii. Review, assess and analyze the adequacy and efficiency of the SES implementation
arrangements, and the extent to which the program has been accepted and supported by
all partners;

iii. Assess and analyze the overall impact of the program on the Government‟s policies
and programs and the capacity needed to implement them;

iv. Determine the adequacy of the project institutional arrangements to support project
implementation;



                                            33
v. Re-assess the project‟s risks, indicators and review its fiduciary issues;

Make recommendations regarding the way the SES should evolve in order to ensure that
its implementation shortcomings are addressed, and progress made to date is sustained

Overview of the Session

The session began on time as scheduled at Corina Hotel with Mr. Alfred Chie Sayon,
SES Program coordinator and Mr. Raymond Muhula of the World Bank delivering the
opening remarks. They both explained the purpose of the session and the expectations of
the session. Mr. D. Karley Swen, Academic Registrar at LIPA served as Facilitator while
Mr. V. Simmons Kidka served as Reporteur. About forty-five (45) SEs beneficiaries were
in attendance.

The meeting proceeded with a four-count agenda: The accomplishment of the SES
objectives (to what extent), Stakeholders‟ support and acceptability of SES interventions,
Current situation (where SES is now), and Re-assessing SES interventions.

The discussions began with an assessment of the specific immediate objectives of the
SES Program. In view of these objectives, the participants (the SES professionals) were
asked to offer a candid individual assessment of the program since indeed they were the
agents of change. Based on their empirical experiences of stakeholders‟ support and
acceptability, they were also required to suggest a way forward.

Various issues and success stories were raised, which include, but are not limited to the
few mentioned below:
    The SES Program recruited and assigned nearly 100 professionals to areas where
       they are really needed.
    In certain counties, SES staff eradicated the duplications of projects by
       international organizations, thereby saving the counties some resources.
    In some counties, SES professionals reconciled county legislative caucus and
       county administrations on one hand and the upper and lower echelons of the
       county administrations; while in other counties, data bases are created for
       information management, thereby creating awareness as to what goes with the
       various sectors in the counties.
    At the Ministry of Agriculture, an SES professional was responsible for the
       establishment of the Livestock Bureau.           At this same ministry, an SES
       Environmentalist is in charge of the Agricultural Research Institute.
    In several places and at variety of levels, SES staff are relied on, viable systems
       put in place.
    At the Monrovia City Council, new city police are trained and there is a
       noticeable professional outlook of the police.



                                             34
       Most land crises are created by untrained surveyors. Currently, through SES
       professional entry, college graduates at this profession has risen from 3 to 40
       persons.

Stakeholders’ Support and Acceptability

In most instances or at several agencies, counties and ministries, reception was a problem,
especially during the inception of the program. This is largely due to the fact that change
is not always readily welcome or because old situations are difficult to part with. In
specific terms, stakeholders‟ support and acceptability responses were presented in the
manners and fashions below:
       At certain ministries, the assistant ministers felt that their jobs were being taken
          or threatened to be usurped by SES professionals.
       Superintendents, development superintendents in particular, in some counties
          did not cooperate with SES staff for a long period because they worried about
          job threats.
       Some agencies, ministries and counties regarded SES professionals as people
          who earned very big salaries. As such, they were expected to have all the
          answers and all necessary information.
       At most ministries or establishments, budgetary allocations are made prior to
          the arrivals or entries of SES professionals. SES interventions do not
          necessarily form part of the line items of their budgets. It becomes a problem to
          receive the kind of support the SES personnel need to effect the desired changes
          effectively and efficiently.
       Some job descriptions are statutory responsibilities of certain offices which not
          likely transferable. SES professionals are hindered by such conflicts of
          responsibility.
       On numerous occasions, the Program Coordinator had to meet with ministers
          and heads of agencies to explain SES interventions and to prevail upon them for
          their cooperation and cordiality of working relationship, etc., etc.

   Current Situation

   The Senior Executive Service (SES) leadership explained that the SES was entering a
   new phase and that a local consultant was reviewing the program. There were
   possibilities that terms of reference would be strengthened so as to be relevant and
   truly reflective of what was transpiring in the field. Therefore, it was imperative for
   the professionals to state added responsibilities that did not form part of their terms of
   reference and to also mention those activities that would enhance their work that were
   not enshrined in their terms of reference.

   In furtherance, it was explained that minor financial problems in the form of salaries
   delay followed after June 30, 2011. However, all were assured that this problem was


                                            35
very close to being over as funding from the World Bank (USD1.7 million USD) and
GIZ (1 million Euro or 1.4 million USD) respectively were in country. Funding from
USAID would be forth-coming in February, 2012.

At this juncture, the Professionals unanimously raised concerns over pay delays,
especially the October, 2011 salaries. They would wish to receive their October and
November salaries soon. Others complained of the stagnancy of their salaries in wake
of upward-shifting cost of living. They equally mentioned the improvements
(increases) in the National Budgets while they earn the same salaries over the period
of three years.

Some of the professionals suggested that the number of SES personnel might have
dwindled because of the possibilities of higher salaries on the job market.
Additionally, the professionals ventured to suggest the need for other incentives like
seminars, short-term refresher training as means of boosting motivation.
Many professionals also observed that working relationships have improved over
times and that most stakeholders are realizing that their presence is facilitating the
work and creating benefits to the counties, agencies, ministries and greater society.

Re-assessing the SES Program

The Senior Executive Service Program declared the need to move forward. The
Program also humbly demanded the enlightened advice of the professionals as to the
options for such forward march. Responses from the professionals were as follows:
     Those recruited and deployed by SES are Liberians and are willing to
       encounter the challenges posed by their various assignments. Since the SES
       does not have a retirement plan, there should be upward adjustments of
       salaries, either from GOL or the donors for the purposes of motivation.
     Some SES terms of reference are in conflict with positions within the
       ministries and agencies. There is a need for SES to investigate the existing
       structures within these entities prior to the deployment of professionals.
     No matter how qualified or how experienced a professional is, the
       environment is a key factor achieving the desired reforms. Qualified and well
       compensated staffs are needed in the counties to facilitate the realization of
       the desired results of the country‟s decentralization plan. The professionals
       need to work with people who have the capacity to replicate or drive the
       reforms to other levels.
     The professionals recruited and assigned by SES are qualified and
       experienced, but conditions, challenges and environments differ. There is a
       need for a short-term retraining; not necessarily in the core of the discipline,
       but to provide orientations in the conditions, challenges and environments.
       SES should blend technical competence with social skills.




                                        36
          The Program (SES with the support of GOL and Donors) should establish an
           accomplishment realization package. This should go beyond the recruitment
           and deployment of professionals. There should be logistical support and
           supplemental budget for the SES by the Government of Liberia. With the
           availability of this package, SES personnel could make tremendous progress
           in driving the necessary reforms.
          The Program should rotate County Development Planning Officers across the
           country.
          The Program should develop a mechanism for feedback on periodic basis –
           either through a newsletter, quarterly forum, public awareness through radio
           and other media, etc.

       Lessons Learned

The SES beneficiaries provided some lessons learned, some of whom are individual as
well as institutional. Some of the lessons learned are:
    Changes in country leadership often create disruption and continuity of improved
        service delivery of CDOs in the counties;
    Success in performance improvement largely depends on the working
        environment and the systems in place;
    Team work and better coordination and delegation improve productivity;
    Bureaucracy and selfishness of supervisors delayed implementation of vital
        recommendations for progress;
    Lack of short term training and specialized courses undermine best practices and
        productivity;
    Lack of supplemental budget for the SES by the Government is not a good
        practice;
    Strong commitment by beneficiaries who want to succeed along with positive
        relationship building is the hallmark for results;
    Successful implementation depends on a strong secretariat that can impose
        sanctions;
    Periodic forum for feedback, awareness and media relations key for success of
        program;

Conclusion

The beneficiaries agreed that the exercise was highly productive and the exchange
rewarding. It is suggested that such opportunity be continued at least quarterly. As a
result of the various deliberations, the program needs to strengthen the areas of
acceptability and support by recipient ministries/agencies, budgeting and financial
support of the program by government; need for increase or increment in salaries to cope
with standards of living, need for better incentives and motivational packages for the
program. The phase-in strategy of the program has to be revisited now for gradual
implementation.


                                          37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


   1.1.Assessment of Outcomes against Objectives

   a. Assessment of operations objectives against achievements

The SES has made significant achievement in supporting the government’s
development agenda. Among the achievements are the following:

       Significant contributions have been made to policy management and to policy
       formulation. The GEMAP and the PRS (Poverty Reduction Strategy) formulation
       were cross-sectoral efforts and preceded the recruitment of the SES.
       Responsibility for monitoring and ensuring that the PRS deliverables are on track
       at the national and sub-national levels, however, has largely been assumed by the
       SES. It is in the area of institutional reform, however, that the SES has made
       what could possibly be the most far-ranging contributions. SES recruits have co-
       facilitated training sessions on key competencies for improving local governance
       in all 15 counties; and have been instrumental to the re-activation of dormant
       local coordination structures.

      At the national level, the Civil Service Reform Directorate (CSRD) within the
       CSA is staffed by SES recruits. Sixty four (64%) percent of their supervisors and
       60 percent of their colleagues hold the view that the SES models the new civil
       service with respect to results orientation, skills in building relationships, team
       leadership and team playing skills. About 77 percent of their supervisors report
       that the SES is already critical to meeting future needs of their organizations. In
       addition to undertaking substantive policy and operational analysis to produce
       related documents, these supervisors expect to deploy the SES in more training
       and mentoring roles, in the re-profiling of departments and units in the future, and
       on reform committees.


   b. Assessment of the Bank’s performance

During the implementation period of this project, many                     World     Bank
Implementation missions have conducted support visits.

The mission‟s final report covering the entire review has not been released up to the time
of this report but its de-briefing report stressed the need to strengthen the M/E component
of the secretariat and the need to design an M/E instrument to capture data on specific
individuals to whom knowledge have been transferred and the specific nature of the
knowledge transferred (mentoring, workshop, etc.,), and also develop specific indicators
for knowledge transfer. The mission also spoke of delays in preparation of quarterly


                                            38
reports and distribution. The secretariat identified retention of staff, performance
evaluation and reporting as key challenges for the professionals.

There was a good relationship between the World Bank team and the project team.
The disbursement of funds through the PFMU was fairly straightforward and reduced
implementation setbacks. However, there have been some delays in salaries payment due
to delays in putting payment request in Client Connections and securing No Objections
on time for payments. There has been good working relationship between the Bank‟s
staff and the program implementing unit.

   c. Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the preparation and
      implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lesson learned
      that may be helpful in the future.

   (i)     Project implementation

The program was designed under difficult circumstances. Low capacity
environment may have contributed to implementation bottlenecks. Supervision of
SES professionals and staff has not been as effective as expected and required. Most
supervisors in the ministries and agencies do not provide the required guidance to ensure
that the basic requirements of developing monthly, quarterly and annual work plans are
met. In this situation, it becomes difficult for them to supervise, monitor and evaluate the
work of the professionals. This is clearly evidence by the quality of the reports and their
unwillingness or hesitation to affix their signatures to these reports.

   (ii)    Financial management

The World Bank, through the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU), hired
the services of VOSCON INC (Certified Public Accountants) to conduct an audit of the
operations of Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) Grant No. TF091041
Emergency Senior Executive Service Project for the period ended December 31, 2009.

The audit concluded that the financial statements referred to above gave a true and fair
view of the financial position of PFMU/ESESP Grant No. TF 091041 as at December
31, 2009, and of the results of its operations for the period then ended December 31, 2009,
and are in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).

   (iii)   Monitoring and evaluation at program level

Performance has been critical for the survival of the SES and for continued donor
support. There has therefore been a need to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation
unit of the SES. Nevertheless, it is in this area where there were challenges. This is
largely attributable to a low capacity environment, and the lack of an M&E culture in the
public sector in Liberia.




                                            39
The effectiveness of coordination between the multi-donor institutions on the one hand
and the collaboration with Government partners through the PIC arrangement, on the
other hand present a practical lesson that needs to be noted for possible replication
elsewhere.
Effective coordination for multi-donor funding programs such as the SES is critical in
ensuring that funds are released on time and used for their intended purpose.

   d. Lessons Learned

      Program participants should be placed across the country. When designing
       surge capacity programs such as the SES, it is critical to ensure broad coverage.
       At the very minimum, avoid the temptation to place all staff in the central
       government. The recruitment and deployment of 15 County Development
       Officers into the 15 counties has been praised and add value to the capacity gap in
       the counties and provide the beginning framework for decentralization,
       accountability and good governance and there is need for continuity and more
       staff;

      Selectivity in areas of focus. Program should be used to support the delivery
       of capacity in critical sectors with gaps: Placement is effective when
       anchored in broad government agenda such the PRS. All of the 15 County
       Assistant Superintendents for Development as well as supervisors from the
       various ministries/agencies say the program has helped them deliver critical
       deliverables under the PRS, improved and built their capacity, and hence is on
       course and should continue;

      Donors’ coordination and collaboration with the Government is essential for
       program effectiveness, especially in cases of joint financing. Effective
       coordination and collaboration between the multi-donor institutions on the one
       hand and the government partners through the PIC arrangement presents unique
       lessons that need to be noted. Also, twenty-nine (29) ministries and agencies are
       participating and working together in the program and the level of inter-agency
       participation, coordination, collaboration and ownership is highly commendable;

      There is a need to revise salary structures to be consistent with increases in
       cost of living; otherwise there is a risk of attrition. Salaries scales might look
       attractive at the time of initial entry into the program. However, as situation in the
       country improves, there is need to revise salaries to keep up with the market.




                                            40
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

 The draft ICR was circulated to USAID and UNDP. USAID returned largely editorial
comments and made various suggestions about ratings. These have been incorporated
into     the    ICR.           There   was    no     response    from     UNDP.




                                       41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Liberia documents

Republic of Liberia. 2005. National Transitional
Government of Liberia: Results Focused Transitional Framework. Monrovia: UNDP/
World Bank.

Republic of Liberia. 2008. Civil Service Reform Strategy (2008-2011). Monrovia: Civil
Service Agency

Republic of Liberia. 2008. Poverty Reduction Strategy (2008-2011). Monrovia: Ministry
of Planning and Economic Affairs.

Republic of Liberia. 2009. Medium Term Pay Strategy. Monrovia: Civil Service Agency.

Republic of Liberia.2010. SES Success Stories: The Faces Behind Civil Service Reforms
in Liberia. Monrovia: Civil Service Agency.
Available on the web: http://www.emansion.gov.lr/doc/Final%20PRS.pdf

Republic of Liberia. 2010. Mid- Term Independent Review of the Senior Executive
Program. Monrovia: Civil Service Agency

World Bank documents

World Bank. 2007. Emergency Project Paper for a Senior Executive Service Project.
Report No. 41070-LR

World Bank 2008. Country Assistance Strategy (FY 09-FY11). Report No. 47928-LR

World Bank. 2008. Emergency Project Paper for […] Economic Governance and
Institutional Reforms Project. Report no. 42836-LR.

Others

Ellis, Stephen. 2007. The Mask of Anarchy: The Destruction of Liberia and the
Religious Dimension of an African Civil War. London: Hurst & Company, p. 316.

Ole Therkildsen and Per Tidemand .2007. Staff Management and Organizational
Performance in Tanzania and Uganda: Public Servant Perspective. Copenhagen: Danish
Institute of International Affairs.




                                         42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33435R2
                         11°W                                                            10°W                                                           9°W                                                           8°W




9°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIBERIA
                                                                                                                                        GUINEA
       SIERRA                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                           Irié
       LEONE                                              To                             Voinjama
                                                         Buedu
                                                                                         Kolahun

                                       To                                       Mt. Wuteve          L O FA




                                                                                                                            .
                                    Pendembu                                     (1,380 m)




                                                                                                                           ts
                                                                                                                   M
                                                        Vahun
8°N                                                                                                                    i                                                                                                                                   8°N




                                                                                          e
                                                                                                                  iz

                                                                                         ng
                                                                                                              g
                                     To                                          Ra  i                 o   no
                                   Kenema
                                                           Gelahun
                                                                            g   iz                 W                       Zorzor                                                    To
                                                                    o    lo                                                                                                         Lola




                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                   ya           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                    ts
                                                 be                                                                                                                        Yekepa
                                                                                                                                                                           Yekepa                    M




                                                                                                                                        nda
                                             G
                                                           fa
                                                                                                            Via
                                                                                                                                                                                               ba




                                                                                                                                    Nia
                                                        of                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                       im
                                                                                                                                                        Nzérékoré                  N
                                                   L




                         Kongo                            GBARPOLU                                          Gbalatuah                                                         Senniquellie
                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Danané
          To                                                                                                                                                   Ganta        Karnplay
        Zimmi    GRAND                  Bopolu
                Bo
                  CAPE                                                                                       Gbarnga
7°N                                                                        l                                                                  Palala                                                                                                       7°N
                                                                    P   au
                 MOUNT                                          St.                                 Zeansue
                                                                                                     Zienzu            BONG                            Yopie
                                                                                                                                                                       Sagleipie
                                     Tubmanburg                                            Totota
                                                                  Bong Town
 Robertsport                                                                                                                                                    NIMBA                                                         CÔTE
                                 BOMI
                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                            Klay
                                                                  MARGIBI                                                    Botata
                                                                                                                                                                         Gloie
                                                                                                                                                                                    Nu
                                                                                                                                                                                       o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D’IVOIRE
                                   Careysburg                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                        hn                Tapeta
                                                                                                                                                         Tappita                          Toulépleu
                                                                  Kakata                                                              Jo
                                                                                                                                  St.
                                            Bensonville                                                                                                                              Tobli
                     MONROVIA                                       Harbel
                                                                                            GRAND
                                                                                            BASSA                                       Guata                                    Poabli
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kola Town
        MONTSERRADO
                                                                           Hartford                    Gaamodebi                                                                                                   Zwedru
6°N                                                                                                                                                                                                  Babu                                                  6°N
                                                                                                                   RIVER CESS
                                                                  Buchanan
                                                                                                    Trade                                                                     GRAND GEDEH
                                                                                                    Town
                                                                                                                           Gonglee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dube
                                                                                                                                                                                    Pyne
                                                                                                                                  tos
                                                                                                                              Ce s       Bokoa

                                                                                                Cestos City                                                    SINOE                                                   Pelokehn

                                                                                                                                                  Kopo           Juazohn                                     RIVER GEE
      AT L A N T I C OC EAN                                                                                            Sehnkwehn                                                                        Kahnwia
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kanweaken                  Fish Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tawake
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tawlokehn
5°N                                                                                                                                       Greenville                                                                                                       5°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                       GRAND                                A     Nyaake
                                                                                                                                                                 Nana Kru                                 RY
                                                                                                                                                                                        K R U Barclayville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA




                                                                                                                                                                              Sasstown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N




                LIBE R I A                                                                                                                                                                          Grand Cess                    Plibo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tabou

                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                   Harper

                COUNTY CAPITALS

                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4°N
                RIVERS

                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                               0             20          40      60        80       100 Kilometers
                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                RAILROADS                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                 0                    20              40             60 Miles

                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                         10°W                                                           9°W                                                           8°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JULY 2007
