RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                      Report No. P-825
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated orgonizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 26, 1970



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$4.3 million to the
Central African Republic to assist in financing a high-ay maintenance
project.
PART I - HISTORGICAL
2.        In 1968 the Government of the Central African Republic requested
IDA assistance for a highway maintenance program. A highway maintenance
study and a feasibility study financed by UNDP were carried out by
consultants in 1968 and 1969 with the Bank as Executing Agency. An appraisal
mission visited the country in October 1969. Negotiations with a delegation
from the CAR, led by the Minister of Public Works Auguste M'Bongo, were
completed in Washington on May 8, 1970.
3.        The proposed credit would be the second operation of the Bank
Group in the CAR. The first (Credit 146-CA), of US$4.2 million equivalent
to help finance improving the Bangui-M'Baiki road, was signed on April 3,
1969. Almost no disbursements have yet been made on this credit since bidding
procedures had to be repeated after the withdrawal of the lowest bidder and
the devaluation of the French and CFA francs. The contract for construction
wasawarded on February 25, 1970.
4.        The Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDF financed regional
survey of the transportation requirements of the southern region of the CAR
and Cameroon. Projects in the other sectors (agriculture, education, tele-
communications, power) are at preliminary stages of preparation, but none of
these projects will be ready for submission to the Executive Directors
before FY 1972.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.        Borrower:                Central African Republic
Amount:                  $4.3 million equivalent in various currenci
Purpose:                 To assist in financing:
(i) highway maintenance equipment and spare
parts required for the maintenance of
3,900 km of roads;



-2-
(ii) technical assistance;
(iii) feasibility study and detailed
engineering of the Bangui-Bossembele
road.
Estimated
economic return:       28 percent
Amortization:            In 50 years, including a 10-year period
of grace, through 50 semi-annual
installments of 1/2 of 1 percent from
December 15, 1980 through June 15, 1990
and 1 1/2 percent from December 15, 1990
through June 15, 2020.
Service charge:          3/4 of 1 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.        A report (PTR-42a) entitled "Appraisal of a Highway Maintenance
Project" is attached. The major objectives of the transport policy of the
CAR are:
(i) to improve the internal road and river transportation system,
particularly in areas potentially promising but presently
underdeveloped such as the Lobaye and Haute Sangha provinces;
(ii) to improve the existing international transportation system
providing access to the sea;
(iii) to rehabilitate the road network which has deteriorated since
independence.
The proposed Highway Maintenance Project relates to the third objective.
7.        The proposed project will help ensure that economic development
will not be hindered by further deterioration of the road network. The
project will improve the condition of the primary and secondary systems
and the efficiency of the maintenance organization through a four-year
maintenance program; it provides for the purchase of maintenance equipment
and spare parts, and technical assistance by consultants for the training
of maintenance personnel. The project also lays the groundwork for
improving one of the three main highways of the CAR by providing a fea-
sibility study and detailed engineering of the Bangui-Bossembel6 road
(156 km), which would improve international connections with both Chad
and Cameroon. In addition, this road is the main transport artery in the
northwest area of the CAR, where more than one-third of the population
lives.



- 3 -
8.        Highway maintenance expenditures are financed through the
Government budget. Before negotiations the Government enacted legislation
increasing the fuel taxes (March 12, 1970) and establishing a Road Fund
(April 30, 1970). The earmarked funds, in addition to resources provided
by the proposed credit, will enable the Government to carry out the four-
year maintenance program. In the past two years total revenues from fuel
taxes averaged about CFAF 350 million, while expenditures on road
maintenance averaged about CFAF 300 million. The difference of CFAF 50
million, which is marginal in relation to the total budget, was used for
other government expenditures. After the recent increase of fuel taxes,
revenues from these taxes during the program period are estimated to cover
increased maintenance expenditures, and a contribution to the general
budget may also be possible. Establishment of regulations governing
implementation of the Road Fund will be a condition of effectiveness of
the credit.
9.        The economic rate of return on the investment will be 28 per-
cent, based on the reasonable assumption that the traffic growth rate will
be 8 percent, and on estimated savings of CFAF 393 million in operating
costs by 1971, and CFAF 57b million by 1976. If an alternative traffic
growth rate of 5 percent per year is assumed, the return would still be
about 15 percent. The estimated economic returns do not take into account
non-quantifiable administrative and other benefits, such as the reduction
in distribution and inventory costs for government and private business
as a result of improved traffic conditions.
10.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $5.4 million.
IDA would finance the foreign exchange cost, estimated at $4.3 million,
i.e. about 80 percent of the total. The Government would make a con-
tribution to the capital cost of $1.0 million equivalent for road
maintenance, and $125,000 equivalent for the Bangui-Bossemb6le feasibility
and engineering studies. The project would be carried out over a four-
year period. In addition to its contribution to the capital costs of the
maintenance program, the Government would meet the recurrent costs, amount-
ing  to about $6.4 million equivalent during the period 1971-74, principally
through the newly created Road Fund.
11.       The Department of Public Works will be responsible for the
execution of the project and is competent to do so with the assistance of
foreign experts to be provided. Consultants for the required technical
assistance and for the feasibility study will be selected through normal
Bank Group procedures. Employment of qualified consultants is a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed credit. Contracts for the maintenance
equipment and materials will be awarded through international competitive
bidding. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.



- 4 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
12.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Central
African Republic and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and
the text of a Resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are
being distributed separately.
13.       The provisions of the draft Development Credit Agreement follow
the pattern usual in similar highway maintenance projects. The employment
of consultants and the establishment and regulation of the Road Fund are
conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01). Any modification of the Road
Fund regulation would constitute an event of default (Section 5.02).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
14.       A report on "The Economy of the Central African Republic:
Recent Evolution and Prospects" (AW 16a dated May 26,1970) is being
distributed separately.
15.       The CAR economy is small, providing employment for about 50,000
wage and salary earners. It has been expanding slowly, barely keeping up
with population growth between 1964 and 1967 and probably a little more
rapidly than population growth since 1968.  However, CARts undeveloped
resources are relatively important. Ecological conditions are favorable
to the development of agriculture in large parts of the country and to
some extent also to the development of livestock. There are also some
mineral resources (diamonds, uranium, limestone) and large unexploited
forests. Although the market is small, there is some scope for industrial
development.
16.       The Government has had some success in developing the resources
of the country during the last three years. Diamond production has
increased considerably and a beginning has been made in local diamond
cutting.  Timber makes a growing but still modest contribution to exports.
The most promising development, however, has been the rapid expansion of
cotton production and exports. Income per capita was estimated at US$127
in 1967.
17.       In spite of progress in recent years, growth prospects for the
next few years remain rather modest. The high cost of transport both
within the country and to ocean ports which are about 2,000 km distant, is
one impediment. Accelerated growth also depends on improvement in planning
and project preparation, and reorganization in some sectors, notably in
diamond and coffee production. Since the level of education and skills is
still low, improvements in public planning and administration will take
time.



18.       The most urgent need at present is improved budgetary control.
Because of increasing expenditures on administration, education and
defense, total budget expenditures in the years 1967 through 1969 have
ranged between CFAF 8 and 10 billion with annual deficits around CFAF 1
billion. The 1970 budget showed a deficit of CFAF 0.8 billion because
of capital expenditures for which no revenues have been budgeted. Since
the revenue forecasts appear over-optimistic, the actual deficit for 1970
may be higher than in 1969. The deficits have so far been financed
principally by reducing cash reserves, and, in the last year, also by
Central Bank credit and the deferment of payments.
19.       Since government revenues already represent more than 25 percent
of monetary GDP, it will be hard to increase the tax burden significantly.
The principal emphasis must, accordingly, be put on a more careful control
of expenditure, particularly on defense, which increased by almost 50 per-
cent between 1966 and 1968 and now accounts for almost 15 percent of total
expenditure. The increase in the number of government employees will also
have to be curbed, especially because increases in government salaries and
wages, which had remained virtually unchanged since 1957, have been granted
in 1970.
20.       The need for better budgetary control and increasing public
savings to contribute to development expenditures was discussed during
negotiations. The Government welcomes the Bank's assistance to bring about
a better allocation of revenues and better management of investment programs.
While there will be no lending by the Bank Group during FY 1971, the
discussion of the economic report, and the preparation of projects scheduled
for FY 1972, will afford the opportunity to provide advice on budgetary
control and other economic policies.
21.       The rather steady decline in net foreign assets indicates that
overall balance of payments deficits were incurred over the entire period
1966-1969. Net foreign assets declined from CFAF 1.94 billion at the end
of 1965 to CFAF -0.75 billion in mid-1969. Annual disbursements of foreign
aid for public investments and cotton subsidies amounted to about CFAF 1.9
billion equivalent, of which the European Development Fund (FED) and the
French Fund for Aid and Cooperation (FAC) contributed about CFAF 1.4 billion.
In general, foreign aid disbursements have been declining since 1965.
Privately held debt increased from CFAF 521 million to CFAF 850 million
during the first six months of 1969. However, the Government intends to
contain the increase of suppliers' credits. On the basis of debt outstanding
as of June 30, 1969, the debt service ratio will reach 7 percent in 1971.
22.       The main constraints on CARts creditworthiness are poverty and the
limited capacity to generate savings. Even with substantial improvements
in budgetary performance through better control of current expenditures,
possibilities for increasing public savings are limited. Although there
are prospects for increased revenues from timber, diamond, cotton and



- 6 -
coffee exports, the balance of payments is likely to remain weak. For
these reasons, CAR will continue to need aid on concessional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREM4ENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
24.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 26, 1970



