CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 199 CA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 199 CA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1970, between CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a Plan of Operation dated December 10, 1968 (hereinafter
called the Plan of Operation) among the Borrower, the United Nations Development
Programme (Special Fund) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, the Special Fund made a grant to the Borrower to assist it in financing
a study for improvement of road maintenance in its territories;
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement dated April 3, 1969
(hereinafter called the First Development Credit Agreement) the Association agreed
to make a development credit to the Borrower in amounts in various currencies
equivalent to four million two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200,000) upon the
terms and conditions set forth in such First Development Credit Agreement to
assist the Borrower in financing detailed engineering and reconstruction works
relating to the Bangui M'baiki road and the procurement of equipment for the
maintenance of such road;
WHEREAS under Section 4.05 of the First Development Credit Agreement
the Borrower and the Association agreed to exchange views on the recommendations
to be made pursuant to Section 2.01 (a) (i) of the Plan of Operation with a view
to agreeing upon an appropriate organization of road maintenance operations in
the territories of the Borrower;
WHEREAS such recommendations have been reviewed by the Borrower and
the Association and the Borrower has requested the Association to make a
development credit to the Borrower for the improvement of road maintenance
in the territories of the Borrower;
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a development credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Consultants" means the consultants referred to in Section 4.02 (a)
of this Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)   "Road Fund" means the fund referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million three hundred thousand
dollars ($4,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
as shall be required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to be financed under this
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on
account of payments for:
(i)        goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of
the Borrower;
(ii)       taxes imposed by the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions
on, or in connection with the importation or supply of, goods
or services; and
(iii)      taxes imposed by any state party to the Treaty, dated
December 8, 1964, establishing the Central African Economic
and Customs Union (C.A.E.C.U.) or any political subdivision of
such state on, or in connection with, the importation of goods
included in Category I of the allocation of proceeds of the Credit
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Development Credit
Agreement, to the refund of which the Borrower shall be entitled
under such Treaty.
Section 2.05. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 1980 and ending
June 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
June 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement to
expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(i)         the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in
August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures
supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association;
(ii)       the Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with
the guidelines set forth in "Uses of Consultants by the World
Bank and its Borrowers", published by the Bank in
September 1966, and in accordance with such other procedures
supplementary thereto as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association; and
(iii)       contracts for the procurement of the goods and services referred
to in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this Section shall be subject to
the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿7
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying
out the Project the Borrower shall employ competent and experienced consultants
acceptable to, and to an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to,
the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by competent
and experienced personnel. If the Project cannot be carried out by the Borrower's
Department of Public Works to the satisfaction of the Association, the Borrower
shall for the purpose employ competent and experienced technical advisors
acceptable to, and to an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfactory to,
the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the reports, plans, specifications, contract
documents and work schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. (a) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a road
fund to be used by its Department of Public Works exclusively to finance
expenditures (other than expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit) in respect of goods and services required to fulfill the Borrower's obligations
under Section 4.04 of this Agreement.
(b)   Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall not later
than March 31, 1971 make an initial budgetary allocation to the Road Fund in
an amount equivalent to one million nine hundred thousand dollars ($1,900,000),
and thereafter shall at all times provide the Road Fund with amounts sufficient
to finance the expenditures referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section as estimated
on the basis of the work schedules relating thereto. To that end, (i) the Borrower
shall annually allocate to the Road Fund such revenues from fuel taxes as shall
be needed; and (ii) if said revenues shall not be sufficient, the Borrower shall take
all such action as shall be necessary to increase the budgetary allocation relating
to the Road Fund by means of fuel tax increases or otherwise.
(c)   The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of the Road Fund.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause its principal public roads to be
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in
accordance with sound engineering practices; (ii) cause all of its road maintenance


﻿8
equipment to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made, all in accordance with sound engineering practices; (iii) cause
suitable workshops to be established and maintained in suitable places for the
foregoing; and (iv) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary action to introduce
and implement measures designed to ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads
of vehicles using its public roads and bridges shall not exceed limits consistent
with the structural and geometric design standards of such roads and bridges.
(b)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities adequate to collect
and record, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such
technical, economic and financial information as shall be reasonably required for
proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extension of its public road
system.
Section 4.06. The Borrower undertakes to insure or cause to be insured the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the operations, administration and financial
condition of the Road Fund and of any department or agency of the Borrower
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof or the
maintenance of all works, facilities and equipment related thereto and shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to: the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Road Fund and of any
department or agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the


﻿9
Project or any part thereof or the maintenance of all works, facilities and equipment
related thereto, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning: the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the
Project, and the administration, operations and financial condition of the Road
Fund and any department or agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying
out of the Project or any part thereof or the maintenance of all works, facilities
and equipment related thereto.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement. On
the part of the Borrower, such information shall include information with respect
to financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.09. (a) The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall
be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all
restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
(b)   This Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such


﻿10
declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely:
The "ordonnances" and "d6crets d'application" establishing and
regulating the Road Fund, or any provision thereof, shall have been materially
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to adversely affect
the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under Section 4.04 of
this Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Consultants have been employed; and
(b)   the Borrower has established and regulated the Road Fund in
accordance with Section 4.03 of this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that all action
required for the establishment and regulation of the Road Fund has been duly
and valdly taken.
Section 6.03. The date of September 21, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.03 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1975 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Travaux Publics
Bangui
Central African Republic
Alternative address for cables:
Minitravaux
Bangui
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿12
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s / Michel Gallin Douathe
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE I
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                             Dollar Equivalent
Part A of the Project
I.    Procurement of equipment, spare
parts and materials                                 2,000,000
II.   Consultants' services                               1,650,000
Part B of the Project
III.  Feasibility study and
preliminary engineering                               200,000
Part C of the Project
IV.   Detailed engineering                                  150,000
V.    Unallocated                                          300,000
TOTAL              4,300,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no


﻿14
longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category V.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
V, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A
a four-year program for improvement of road maintenance in the territories
of the Borrower, including:
(i)        the procurement of maintenance equipment, spare parts and
materials; and
(ii)       consultants' services;
Part B
a feasibility study, including preliminary engineering, of the improvement
of the about 156 km long road between Bangui and Bossemb616; and
Part C
detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents for the
improvement of the road referred to in Part B above, provided that the economic
justification shall have been confirmed to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Supplementary Procedures for
Procurement of Goods
1.   With respect to goods included in Category I of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Development Credit
Agreement, identical or similar items to be procured shall be grouped together
wherever practicable for the purposes of bidding and procurement, and ssuch
grouping of items shall be subject to the approval of the Association.
2.    Whenever the cost of any good or any group of goods shall not exceed
the equivalent of $10,000, the Borrower may, at its option, procure them on the
basis of bidding limited to suppliers established within its territories; provided,
however, that purchases made in accordance with such procedure shall not exceed,
in the aggregate, the equivalent of $200,000.
3.    The interval between the invitation to bid and the opening of bids
shall be not less than sixty days, except that in the case of goods referred to
in paragraph 2 of this Schedule such interval shall be not less than thirty days.
4.    Prior to the invitation to bid, the list of goods to be procured, including
specifications, the estimated unit and total cost thereof, the grouping for the
purposes of paragraph I of this Schedule, the proposed terms and conditions of
the contract, information concerning the advertising coverage, all other tender
documents and, in the case of goods referred to in paragraph 2 of this Schedule,
the names of the proposed suppliers, shall be submitted to the Association for
its approval.
5.    Before awarding any contract, the Borrower shall submit to the
Association for its approval an abstract of the bids received and the Consultants'
evaluation of such bids as well as the Consultants' and the Borrower's proposal
concerning the contract and the award. The Borrower shall send to the Association
a copy of its decision on the award. The evaluation of bids shall be made on
the basis of c.i.f. costs at Bangui minus the estimated amount of all taxes which
would be levied by any state member of the Central African Economic and Customs
Union (C.A.E.C.U.) on or in connection with the importation of goods. The
contract shall be awarded to the bidder offering the lowest evaluated bid determined
to be the most favorable in regard to technical and financial considerations and
practices. Within 28 working days after receiving notice of the Association's
approval required herein, the Borrower shall award the contract. One signed or
certified copy of the contract shall be sent to the Association promptly upon its
execution.


﻿17
6.    Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded to a supplier not
registered in the territories of the Borrower, the accomplishment by such supplier
of all formalities which may be required to enable it to carry out such contract
shall be facilitated by the Borrower.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Supplementary Procedures for
EmployInt of the Consultants
1.    In connection with employment of the Consultants, the following
documents shall be submitted to the Association for approval:
(a)   the terms of reference and invitation for proposals;
(b)   the  Consultants' proposals, their evaluation and  recommended
selection; and
(c)   the Consultants' draft contract.
As soon as a contract has been executed, one signed or certified copy thereof
shall be sent to the Association.
2.    Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded to a consultant not
registered in the territories of the Borrower, the accomplishment by such consultant
of all formalities which may be required to enable it to carry out such contract
shall be facilitated by the Borrower.


