                     Document of
                 The World Bank




                                           Report No: ICR00001755



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-40320)



                       ON A

                      CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR16.7 MILLION
         (US$ 25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                      TO THE

             REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                       FOR A

  URGENT ELECTRICITY REHABILITATION PROJECT



                   August 1, 2011



                 Africa Energy Group
         Sustainable Development Department
           Eastern Africa Country Cluster II
                     Africa Region




                          i
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective March 25, 2011)
                    Currency Unit = Rwandan Franc
                           US$1 = RwF 600.01
                           US$ 1 = SDR 0.630232

                             FISCAL YEAR
                           1 July – 30 June


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB    African Development Bank
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CEDP    Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CQS     Consultants Qualifications
CFO     Chief Financial Officer
CFL     Compact fluorescent light
CFR     Country Framework Report
DRC     Democratic Republic of Congo
DSM     Demand-side management
EA      Environmental Assessment
EAPP    East Africa Power Pool
EC      European Commission
EDPRS   Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
EOI     Expression of Interest
ESIA    Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMAP   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU      European Union
EWSA    Electricity Water and Sanitation Authority
FM      Financial Management
FMA     Financial Management Assessment
FMR     Financial Monitoring Report
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GoR     Government of Rwanda
GWh     Giga Watt hour
HFO     Heavy fuel oil
IB      Incandescent bulb
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC      Individual Consultants
ICB     International Competitive Bidding

                                   ii
IFR        Interim Financial Reports
ICT        Information, Communications, & Telecommunications
IDA        International Development Association
IPSAS      International Public Sector Standards
KIST       Kigali Institute of Science and Technology
kV         Kilo Volt
kWh        Kilo Watt hour
LCS        Least-cost selection
LI         Lahmeyer International
LV         Low voltage
MinaLoc    Ministry of Local Government
MinInfra   Ministry of Infrastructure
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MTEF       Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MV         Medium voltage
MW         Megawatt
NEAP       National Electricity Access Program
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NDF        Nordic Development Fund
OFID       OPEC Fund for International Development
OP         Operational Procedure
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PFM        Public Financial Management
PPA        Power Purchase Agreement
PPIAF      Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PPP        Public-Private Partnership
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSG       Poverty Reduction Support Grant
QCBS       Quality- and cost-based selection
RAP        Rapid Assessment of Biodiversity Priorities
RECO       Rwanda Electricity Corporation
REMA       Rwanda Environmental Management Authority
ROW        Right of way
RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
RURA       Rwanda Utility Regulatory Authority
RWASCO     Rwanda Water and Sanitation Corporation
SBD        Standard Bidding Documents
SEDP       Sustainable Energy Development Project
SIL        Specific Investment Loan
SINELAC    Société Internationale des Pays des Grands Lacs (Regional Electricity
           Company of the Great Lakes)
SNEL       Société National d'Eléctricité (National Electricity Company of DRC)
SPN        Specific Procurement Notices
SWAp       Sector-wide approach



                                       iii
TA     Technical assistance
UERP   Urgent Electricity Rehabilitation Project
WBG    World Bank Group




                    Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                  Country Director: Johannes C.M. Zutt
                   Sector Manager: Subramaniam V. Iyer
              Project Team Leader: Erik Fernstrom
                 ICR Team Leader: Paul Baringanire




                                    iv
Contents 
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6 
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13 
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16 
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17 
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19 
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20 


 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21 
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22 
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24 
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28 
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 30 
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31 
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32 
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 33 
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34 




                                                            v
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Urgent Electricity
Country:                Rwanda                  Project Name:
                                                                          Rehabilitation
Project ID:             P090194                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40320
ICR Date:               05/17/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          RWANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 16.7M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 16.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 16.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Infrastructure
 Rwanda Electricity Corporation (RECO)
 Rwanda Utility Regulatory
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Nordic Development Fund

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/20/2004     Effectiveness:             07/29/2005        07/29/2005
                                                                                  12/02/2005
Appraisal:            11/18/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  09/27/2007
Approval:             01/27/2005     Mid-term Review:           03/15/2008        04/15/2008
                                     Closing:                   07/31/2009        04/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Highly Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                   5
Power                                                                 83                  95
Renewable energy                                                      12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40                  40
Regulation and competition policy                                     20                  20
Urban services and housing for the poor                               40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:          Johannes C.M. Zutt                   A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Subramaniam V. Iyer                  Yusupha B. Crookes
Project Team Leader:       Erik Magnus Fernstrom                Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies
ICR Team Leader:           Paul Baringanire
ICR Primary Author:        Mitsunori Motohashi


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall development objectives of the proposed project are to: (i) Alleviate power
shortages; and (ii) enhance the capabilities
  of energy sector institutions.

  Key performance indicators toward these objectives are:


                                                 ii
  Objective (i) # reduction in outages;
  Objective (ii) - Revised power sector framework, promoting private sector
participation"

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development             objectives     were   not    changed     during   the   project
implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from           Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval             Target        Completion or
                                               documents)            Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Reduction in load shedding outages
Value
quantitative or   4500hrs/month              2000 hrs/month                    0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/31/2004                 07/31/2009                        05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          There was no loadshedding by the project close.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Billing to supply ratio (three month rolling average)
Value
quantitative or   75%                        98%                84%            84%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                 07/31/2009         04/30/2007     04/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Project target Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Revised power sector framework promoting private sector development
                                                                          The final drafts of
                                                                          the Electricity and
Value                                    Draft Legislation                Gas laws have been
quantitative or 1976 Electricity Law     submitted to                     approved by
Qualitative)                             Cabinet                          cabinet and
                                                                          submitted for
                                                                          Parliament
Date achieved 10/31/2004                 10/31/2006                       11/11/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Target Achieved.
achievement)




                                                   iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                 Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                   approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                  documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in installed/available capacity (MW)
Value
(quantitative     41.3                     53.3                                   60
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/31/2004               07/31/2009                             04/30/2009
Comments
                  Target achieved by 112%.The additional thermal Generation from (20 MW ) by
(incl. %
                  April 30, 2009.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     RURA adoption of rules and regulations
Value
                                           Periodic tariff                        Cabinet approved
(quantitative     RURA Established
                                           adjustments                            new tariff structure.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/31/2004               07/31/2007                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Bidding/transaction documents for next block of domestic generation
                                                                           Government have
                                                                           finalised
                                                                           discussions on the
                                                                           first commercial
                                          Call for expression              Gas top Power IPP
Value
                Final site identification of interest issued               with Countour
(quantitative
                still pending             or other financing               Global due to
or Qualitative)
                                          proposals initiated              supply 25 MW by
                                                                           end 2012. Also
                                                                           consruction of the a
                                                                           27 MW HPP
                                                                           ongoing.
Date achieved 10/31/2004                  07/31/2008                       11/11/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                              IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2005           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/13/2005           Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      2.00
  3     06/30/2006       Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               2.00


                                                   iv
  4    12/23/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory      2.00
  5    06/26/2007       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory             2.40
  6    12/17/2007       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory             5.92
  7    06/06/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory            16.49
  8    12/22/2008       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory            22.18
  9    06/05/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory            23.31
 10    12/08/2009       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory            24.21


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     DCA Amendment: to: (i)
                                                     increase the capacity of thermal
                                                     generation to 20MW and (ii)
 12/02/2005               S       S           2.00   enhance capacity building
                                                     activities, project
                                                     implementation and contract
                                                     supervision.
                                                     Reallocation of credit proceeds
                                                     and Extension of the closing
 09/27/2007               S       S           5.38
                                                     date to from July 31st 2009 to
                                                     April 30th, 2010.




                                              v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

General Context
1. Internal political stability, policy reforms, and foreign aid helped Rwanda stage a remarkable
   economic recovery over the period 1996/2004 following the 1994 genocide and civil war.
   Real GDP growth averaged more than 7% p.a. 1998-2002 and slowed to 3% in 2003. Peace
   and political stability was reestablished with democratic institutions and processes
   strengthened. Poverty and social indicators improved. A direct effect of this formidable
   economic recovery corresponded to the growth in demand for electricity. Unfortunately only
   minor investments were made in the power sector in the first decade of reconstruction as
   government attention remained on immediate reconstruction and resettling of returning
   refugees. Already by 1998, both peak demand and over-all energy supply were constrained
   by available supplies and network reliability. In response to the growing concerns over
   bottlenecks threatening to reduce long term growth prospects, a Poverty Reduction Strategy
   Paper (PRSP) was adopted in mid-2002 and the World Bank County Assistance Strategy
   (CAS) for 2003-06 was approved in December 2002. Both PRSP and CAS emphasized
   infrastructure investments as key to sustaining the economic growth beyond the immediate
   recovery phase.

Sector Context
2. The ever increasing demand in combination with unexpectedly low lake levels due to
   prolonged regional droughts during 2003-2005, led to a rapid draw-down of the hydro power
   reservoirs Rwanda depended on almost exclusively for its power supply. The power supply
   shortage and the unreliability of the Utility’s dilapidated network rapidly led to extensive and
   lengthy power cuts beginning in early 2004. Load shedding increased approximately 50% of
   peak demand, during the dry period of August/September 2004, with power being cut to
   nearly all households daily for hours at a time. The supply shortages and unreliability raised
   the cost of doing business, weakened the prospects of attracting new investments, and forced
   the Utility to switch to higher-cost diesel water pumping to supply urban areas with potable
   water. The average peak power supply deficit doubled to 10MW (approximately 25% of
   domestic supply) in 2004 from about 5 MW in 2003, and the corresponding deficit in energy
   supplies from about 10 GWh to 54 GWh.

3. Despite the re-commissioning of an old backup diesel plant and the air delivery of used
   generators for emergency supply, the sustained and heavy load shedding led to serious
   adverse consequences to the Rwandan economy including incurring high-cost of self-
   generation (about USc 30/kWh) and prolonged outages leading to reduced outputs for the
   majority of the productive sector with no access to diesel generator supplies. The load
   shedding also resulted in darkness on city streets and in homes reversing some of the security
   gains and confidence building measures that had marked the return to normality after the
   conflict period.




                                                1
4. To address the sector challenges, the Government of Rwanda prepared a sector strategy with
   the twin objectives of completing a Utility turn-around while establishing a sound policy and
   regulatory basis for future growth and development. In the near term, the transition strategy
   was centered on addressing the power shortage by investing in thermal generation and
   improving the performance of Electrogaz, the main sector utility. In the longer term, the
   Government intended to establish policies and institutional frameworks that would create
   incentives for development of indigenous energy resources, sustainable and efficient
   performance of sector entities, increased electricity access and an enhanced flow of
   investments, both from development partners and from the private sector.

5. As part of the immediate strategy, Electrogaz, was placed under a five-year management
   contract in 2003 with a mandate to restructure the company prior to partial or full
   privatization. However, with the increasing pressure on the new management team from the
   ongoing crisis, the intended results were not materializing fast enough and the Government
   terminated the contract in 2005. To continue the internal corporate reforms started under the
   management contract, the Government opted to hire a highly experienced Rwandan manager
   from the private sector (previously executive in a leading cell phone company). The
   combination of local private sector experience and increased government ownership at the
   highest level, accelerated the corporate reform momentum and resulted in a marked
   improvement in corporate finances and operational performance during the project
   implementation period. In parallel with the reforms within the Utility, an independent
   regulator, the Rwanda Utility Regulatory Agency (RURA), was established to provide
   regulatory oversight to the electricity market and provide the foundations for a level playing
   field, allowing for much needed private sector investment, especially in power generation.

Rationale for Bank Involvement
6. As a key partner to the governments energy strategy and reform program in the years
   preceding the 2004 energy crisis (under the Energy Sector Rehabilitation and Urban Waste
   Management Project - IDA Cr. 24560, closed 2001; and the Competitiveness and Enterprise
   Development Project - IDA Cr. 34990, April 2001-ongoing), the World Bank was uniquely
   positioned to support the GoR in financing the immediate and long term actions necessary to
   address the urgent energy challenge. By 2004, the Bank’s engagement in the sector was
   limited to TA financing for the Electrogaz management contract and startup support to the
   Rwandan Utility Regulatory Commission (RURA). The severe supply shortages triggered by
   drought conditions had exposed Rwanda’s increasing vulnerability to supply side disruptions
   and made it abundantly clear that the sector required additional investment financing to limit
   the impact on the over-all economy.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7. To eliminate the load-shedding, it was decided to rehabilitate the national grid, focusing on
   the main growth center of Kigali, and invest in added thermal (petroleum based) electricity
   generation to rapidly increase the available power supply and provide much needed
   diversification from the dependency on hydro resources. In addition, to strengthen sector
   capacity and enable Rwanda develop a long term strategy for domestic and regional energy
   supply, staff in the Utility and Infrastructure Ministry needed to be trained and paired with
                                               2
   international experts to accelerate reform of the Energy sector, improve the ability to plan for
   future development and open the sector to private sector investments in additional generation
   resources.

8. The overall development objectives of the project were to: (i) alleviate power shortages; and
   (ii) enhance the capabilities of energy sector institutions. Key performance indicators toward
   these objectives were: (i) reduction in outages; (ii) a revised power sector framework,
   promoting private sector participation".

9. The original output indicators were: (i) reduction in load shedding outages (average
   cumulative outages per month over the year) from 4500 hours/year to 2000hours/year; (ii)
   revised power sector framework promoting private sector participation by having a revised
   electricity law and (iii) increased billing to supply ratio from 75% to 98%.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification


10. The Project Development objectives were not changed during the project implementation;
    however one of the output indicator targets for “increased billing to supply ratio” was revised
    down from 98% to a more realistic 84% at the mid-term review reflecting revised sector data
    and progress on loss reduction (the previous target figure is believed to have been an error
    during appraisal).


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11. The project’s direct beneficiaries are the electricity customers; in particular the productive
    sector, which would benefit from increased grid supply, reduced load shedding, better quality
    of service, and reduced need for expensive back-up generators. The 2008 Investment Climate
    Assessment stated that 340 Rwandan private enterprises identified Infrastructure, or the lack
    of it, as the primary barrier to growth including quality of services in Electricity,
    Transportation and Telecom sectors all among the top 10 constraints.

12. The Bank also had the opportunity of making a quick and significant contribution to the
    country’s growth and poverty reduction goals by addressing the urgent energy challenge, and
    laying foundations for the sector’s orderly and sustainable development. Increased power
    supply with improved reliability would facilitate higher economic growth and thus benefit
    the population at large. It would also contribute to the over-all perception of the country as a
    viable investment destination for local, regional and international investors sending the
    message that the immediate post conflict period was successfully concluded and the economy
    set for sustainable growth.




                                                 3
1.5 Original Components


13. Component A: Power System Reinforcement (Total US$24.15 m, - IDA US$18 m; NDF
    US$6m; Electrogaz US$0.15m)- This component supported the project objective of
    alleviating power shortages and improving quality of power supply in the existing Electrogaz
    network and comprised of three sub components.

A.1 Generation
14. This component consisted (i) Additional thermal generating units, in two stages, totaling to
    about 12.5 MW [the first stage, procurement for approx. 5 MW and depending on demand
    growth patterns, loss reduction and load management options, and progress in Lake Kivu
    project development, a second 5 to 7.5 MW]; and (ii) rehabilitation of about 2 MW potential
    in small, run-of river hydroelectric units, or any of their existing generation units.

 A.2 Transmission (funded by NDF)
15. The investments in transmission included rehabilitation of existing sub-stations and lines,
    reconfiguration of the evacuation lines from the Sinelac and SNEL stations; and additional
    transmission lines including those required to connect to small hydro units and a new gas-
    based power plant.

A.3. Distribution
16. This subcomponent comprised of rehabilitation of priority Electrogaz distribution network,
    and some line extensions in the urban and peri-urban areas.

17. Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building (Total US$4.05 m -IDA US$4
    m; GOR US$0.05) - This component financed studies required for policy/program
    development of Rwanda Utility Regulation Agency and Electrogaz including training for
    MININFRA, RURA, and Electrogaz’ personnel.

B.1    Project Implementation
18. This sub-component supported the staffing, consultant services, and operational costs of the
    Project Coordination Unit.

B.2     Institutional Strengthening of ELECTROGAZ
19. This sub-component was intended to provide technical assistance and training to
    ELECTROGAZ in the following areas: (i) support for establishment of a computer based
    financial management system; (ii) engineering and procurement planning; and (iii) priority
    training needs.

B.3     Institutional Strengthening of Other Agencies
20. This sub-component supported Policy/Program development and institutional strengthening
    of Department of Energy in the Ministry of Infrastructure and RURA. The key area of
    support included: (i) development of the new legislation and regulations including for the
    rural electrification; and (ii) training of the Department of Energy, in energy and


                                               4
   environmental economics and policy, rural and renewable energy, regulation, etc.; and
   RURA, in development and application of regulations, etc.

21. Component C: Domestic Resource Development & Efficient Utilization: (Total US$3.05 m -
    IDA US$3m; GOR US$0.05m). The component supported preparation of feasibility studies
    for development of domestic hydro and methane gas generation resources including technical
    support to development & implementation of good carbonization practices and use of
    improved stoves for efficient utilization of available biomass resources in Rwanda.

C.1    Development of Future Hydroelectric Project
22. Preparation of required pre-feasibility/feasibility studies for the next increment of
    hydroelectric power for meeting the future energy demand of system.

C.2     Efficient Utilization of Biomass Resources
23. Field demonstrations and training in improved carbonization (charcoal making process) and
    use of efficient stoves.

C.3    Micro-hydro Based Independent Grids
24. Technical assistance to prepare business plans and implementation arrangements, and
    procurement of goods and services for the installation of three priority independent grids.


1.6 Revised Components


25. The original project components were not revised nor were the objectives of the components
    changed. However some of the activities (in component C especially) were dropped from the
    project financing and instead covered under the Government’s budget to allow for scale-up
    of the financing within the core outcomes of alleviating power shortages, and enhancing the
    implementation and the capabilities of energy sector institutions as detailed below.

26. DCA Amendment of December 2, 2005 was made to: (i) increase the capacity of thermal
    generation to 20MW and (ii) enhance capacity building activities, project implementation
    and contract supervision. These two changes resulted into reallocation of funds among the
    original components as follows:

      Component A1 Generation was significantly scaled-up to cover the additional costs
       associated with the decision to procure a larger size thermal plant capable of producing
       20MW (compared to the 12.5MW initially foreseen at appraisal). The power plant was
       increased in size at the request of the borrower following a reassessment of the generation
       requirement to meet growing demand and well aligned with the objective of UERP as a
       fast track operation to alleviate power shortages. s. To accommodate these changes
       subcomponents C1 and C3 were dropped from the project and instead covered under the
       Government of Rwanda’s development budget (supported in part by the PRSC/PRSG
       program). In addition, the GoR agreed to significantly increase the co-financing for the
       said component A1 by approximately USD 10 million.

                                                5
      Component A2 Transmission (funded by NDF) was also significantly scaled-up to cover
       the additional costs of more extensive works in the substations and including an
       additional one substation (Mashyuza). NDF contribution increased from EUR 5 million
       (USD 6.5 million) to EUR 7.5 million (USD 10.86 million.
      To further increase the project’s impact on the core objective of alleviating power
       shortages it was decided to add investments to improve demand side efficiency by
       procuring 400,000 energy saving light bulbs or compact fluorescent lights (CFLs)
       estimated to save between 10-15MW of peak demand when fully distributed to
       households.
      Owing to persistent capacity constraints, Component B was scaled up to increase
       financing to undertake additional training for the ministry, government agencies and the
       national Utility Electrogaz.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

27. Major Project Changes are described in section 1.6 above. These were approved through the
    following actions (for details see table 1 below) :

       (i) December 2,2005 - DCA Amendment
       (ii) September 27, 2007 – Reallocation of credit proceeds
       (iii) July 5, 2009 – Reallocation of credit proceeds and Extension of the closing date to
            from July 31st 2009 to April 30th, 2010.


                                  Table 1: UER Project Reallocations

                                    Original      Dec 2, 2005       Sept 27, 2007     July 5, 2009
          Category                  allocation    Reallocation      Reallocation      Reallocation
                                     (SDR)          (SDR)              (SDR)             (SDR)
    Supply and Installation of
(1) network and generation
    equipment (prev. Works)           2,670,000        11,510,000        13,000,000       14,100,000
(2) Goods                             9,340,000           500,000           600,000          500,000
    Consultants’ services,
(3)
    Including Audits                  3,070,000         3,070,000         2,000,000        1,300,000
    Training, Workshops and
(4)
    Study Tours                         140,000           316,000           450,000          450,000
(5) Incremental Operating Costs         140,000           140,000           650,000          350,000
(6) Unallocated                               0         1,164,000                 0               0
    TOTAL                            16,700,000        16,700,000        16,700,000       16,700,000

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

28. Quality at Entry Assessment- The project was designed as a “fast track” operation expected
    to deliver the much needed incremental generation as fast as possible to stem the supply

                                                   6
   deficit. A Project Concept Review was held on held on July 20, 2004 and recommended that
   the urgency of the project’s core energy investments mandated a simple design. The financial
   weakness of the power sector, the potential for backsliding on reform, and the possibility of
   delays in implementation were identified as major risks. The QER found several strong
   mitigating factors to these risks including (i) project’s coherence with the GoR’s power
   sector strategy and the CAS, (ii) a high quality economic and technical analysis underpinning
   the project design; (iii) the Borrower’s commitment and political will to undertake major
   sector reform.; and (iv) a competent project preparation team backed by country and sector
   management.

29. Satisfactory Background Analysis -Key lessons from the previous energy projects in Rwanda
    and elsewhere focused on the readiness of stakeholders for the project as well as design and
    implementation simplicity. These key lessons were incorporated in the project design as
    summarized below.

   (a) Commitment of Government and Other Stakeholders. MINECOFIN took the lead in
   overseeing project preparation, with core support from MININFRA and Electrogaz, which
   ensured deep engagement in all aspects of project preparation. The Government showed its
   commitment to addressing the sector challenges by allocating of their scarce financial
   resources for the purchase of the initial 12.6 MW of diesel capacity and by initiating a
   process of revising tariff levels based on a cost recovery model.

   (b) Simple Design and Implementation Arrangements to facilitate Project Execution and to
   Enhance Sustainability.        This lesson was especially important given the limited
   implementation capacity in the sector at large and especially within the ailing Utility
   Electrogaz, the project Implementation agency. It was decided to quickly establish a Project
   Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Utility with adequate staffing and resources to drive the
   project activities in close cooperation with relevant Utility departments.

   (c) Advance Preparatory Activities to Minimize Delays. Bidding documents for initial
   Electrogaz investments were prepared, and the procurement process commenced, well before
   effectiveness. The PCU was established well before effectiveness.

   (d) Alternatives to include other components within the project scope, such as utility water
   investments and expanded electrification of households were considered but rejected taking
   into account other parallel initiatives supporting the water supply investments and the severe
   supply constraints limiting the impact of a national rural electrification program. Instead, the
   project was designed to include the TA and capacity building to prepare a framework for
   future investments in new grid extensions.

30. Assessment of Risks - Overall the project risk was rated as substantial at appraisal. Several risk
    factors were assessed and mitigation measures considered as follows:

   (a) Electrogaz’ Financial Position does not Improve. This was assessed as substantial and
       an up-front agreement was reached with GoR with respect to the following actions: (i)
       fuel cost pass-through and cost recovery tariff revision to be implemented; (ii)
       management contract revisions to provide incentives for improvement of Utility finances;

                                                  7
         and (iii) implementation of approved business plan. The risk never materialized as GoR
         moved decisively during early stages of project implementation to address the revenue
         shortfall by increasing the tariff in two major increments. The fuel cost fluctuations,
         initially foreseen as a fuel cost pass-through component, was decided to be absorbed by
         government budget as a transparent subsidy transfer.

    (b) Electrogaz Management. The risk was assessed as low. The GoR agreed to maintain the
        Electrogaz management contract with LI. Contractual changes were subject to Bank
        approval. This risk materialized during project implementation as the LI management
        contract was terminated. To continue the reform process underway, the government in
        dialogue with the WB energy team, opted to recruit a strong Rwandan management team
        with experience from both public and private sector. The results are evident in the
        improved performance of the Utility during the implementation period.

    (c) Slow Implementation Progress due to Weak Capacity. This risk was rated as substantial
        at appraisal. A strong PCU was established up-front in addition to undertaking
        procurement for the initial investments before project effectiveness. The Bank maintained
        dialog with Government during project supervision and through the PRSC process.
        However, there were delays in the initial phase of project implementation attributed to
        lack of experience with Bank procurement procedures which led to the bidding
        documents for the initial investments being revised. This impacted the overall project
        implementation period by about 18 months. Some of these teething problems could have
        been averted with additional TA and more intensive training of the PCU in Bank
        procedures during the first months of project implementation.

    (d) Disruption in Supply of Petroleum Products-was assessed as substantial and the project
        design included construction of on-site storage facilities to provide a buffer for delivery
        delays. These Fuel storage facilities were built (and existing storage rehabilitated) during
        project implementation by the GoR using own funds. The vulnerability of Rwandan’s
        petroleum product supply was severely felt during the Kenya post-election violence in
        2008 when the Eldoret fuel terminal in western Kenya was closed for an extended period
        of time leading to fuel shortages and price increases in Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda.

2.2 Implementation

31. The project was designed as a “fast track” operation expected to deliver the much needed
    incremental generation as fast as possible to stem the supply deficit. The overall project
    implementation progress was gradually improving, following significant initial teething
    problems including a 9-month effectiveness delay and slow initial disbursements due to
    changing government priorities1 and in one instance lack of supplier response to the issued
    tenders. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was created to facilitate project implementation.


1
  Increase in Generating capacity for the power plant and changes in scope of grid rehabilitation tenders to prioritize
among others a new main substation for the Kigali area. The decisions eventually improved the outcomes of the
project


                                                           8
   The PCU had the overall oversight responsibility for the full project implementation and
   regularly reported to a Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance and Economic
   Planning. Subsequent to the generation needs assessment, the project was restructured in
   December 2005 to increase the capacity of emergency thermal generation.

32. The Rwandan government moved swiftly to address the immediate challenges by renting
    additional diesel generation capacity in 2006 (15MW) and to increase tariffs by more than
    100 percent, to about US$0.21/kWh. By contrast, average retail tariffs in the rest of the
    region are around US$0.10-0.16/kWh. Due to the already high tariff levels the government
    opted to subsidize some of the cost of rental power by allocating annual budget transfers for
    fuel purchases starting with the 2006 budget year.

33. Mid-term Review (MTR). A midterm review of the project was completed in April 2008. The
    preliminary review findings highlighted the improved implementation performance of the
    project following a slow start. Project funds had been committed to over 90% with a
    significantly improved disbursement rate reaching 63% of the IDA funds. The project was
    deemed to be on track to achieve the development objectives by project completion in July
    2009. The mid-term review identified a number of suggested improvements to achieve better
    results, especially in institutional capacity building and M&E aspects, these are summarized
    below:

      RURA: The effort to build capacity with the regulator was considered especially urgent
       considering the new Electricity and Gas laws expected to be approved by Parliament
       during the year. The legislation provides a clear mandate for the regulator to over-see the
       sector. However, with the current staffing and limited experience in Energy regulatory
       affairs, RURA was deemed unlikely to be able to fully carry out this mandate without
       considerable outside assistance. The MTR therefore recommended that additional
       resources be allocated to the regulator to build capacity to enable staff to fully apply the
       new legal and regulatory structure. The project addressed this by financing additional
       training for an entire class of RURA and sector staff, led by the Public Utility Research
       Center (PURC), at the University of Florida.

      UERP Project Coordination Unit (PCU): The MTR recognized the significant project
       management capacity built up in the UERP PCU during the 3 years of UERP
       implementation. Experience in project management and procurement of infrastructure
       investments are essential to maintain the accelerating pace of sector development. The
       Mission suggested that Electrogaz and the ministry of infrastructure establish strategy for
       how the PCU resources can be mainstreamed into existing organizational structures. In
       particular, Electrogaz would require a dedicated unit for project implementation and
       contract supervision to over-see the execution of the grid roll-out program identified
       within the SWAp. The advice was fully mainstreamed in the design of the Rwandan
       Electricity Access Scale-up and SWAp development project as the project is
       implemented by a dedicated project management department within the Utility,
       benefiting from the experience built within UERP to enable the Utility to manage a
       major infrastructure roll-out program using Utility, GoR and donor funds.


                                                9
      M&E arrangements: The MTR reviewed the progress, the relevance and usefulness of
       the M&E framework and possible adjustment to improve quality of implementation.
       Although the different data identified in the M&E plan was regularly collected by the
       team or participating organizations there seems to be limited use of this data for
       management of the project. The findings were taken into account when designing the
       SWAp that heavily emphasize the role of regular monitoring of progress as a key tool to
       project over-sight and steering. (Specific proposals on change of indicators are discussed
       in section 2.3 below.)


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34. M&E Design. The project design contained a number of very specific performance indicators.
    These indicators covered both institutional development related to the management of the
    sector, as well as project outcomes and outputs, such as reduction in load shedding, billing to
    supply ratio, technical outages, revised power sector framework, etc. The indicators were
    appropriate and suitable as indicators towards the PDO and hence could easily be used to
    evaluate the project performance. The MTR recommended considering revising the technical
    performance indicators to reflect international standards for service quality and reliability of
    supply (IEEE - SAIDI, SAIFI). This recommendation was not implemented due to the
    limited ability of the Utility to generate the required data to measure the more sophisticated
    performance indicators proposed in the report. The recommendations were instead adopted as
    longer term strategic objectives for the Utility to develop its ability for data acquisitioning
    and apply in future management information systems (MIS).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
35. The project complied with the identified safeguard policies (OP 4.01 and 4.12 at both
    preparation and implementation phases. A Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and
    Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) were prepared and publicly
    disclosed by the Government and the Bank. The RPF and ESMF provided the framework
    under which project investment would address social issues in conformance with
    Government and World Bank requirements. Environmental Management Plans and
    Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plans were prepared for the Jabana thermal plant, the
    Birembo substation and the distribution rehabilitation component. The Jabana HFO plant is
    equipped with excellent pollution control and safety measures, particularly the state-of-the-
    art Wartsila water treatment system, which renders the plant waste water clean enough for
    use on agricultural fields, (and if treated for bacteria, safe enough for human consumption).
    There are also measures put in place for fuel waste treatment and disposal. The fire
    prevention and response system is well-designed and supplements that of the city of Kigali.
    Mitigatory measures were sought to limit the plant noise pollution toan acceptable level for
    the benefit of the people living in the plant proximity (e.g. tree plantation to establish a buffer
    zone). The Birembo substation is built to international standards of safety and pollution
    control. Fire protection measures and drainage facilities (ditches and three septic tanks) are
    well-constructed and maintained. Gasabo district substations- visits to several of the Gasabo
    district substations again demonstrated that safety measures, including anti-climbing devices
    and fencing, were effective. EMPs covered the environmental impacts of associated

                                                  10
   transmission lines. Resettlement and compensation of Project Affected Persons was
   completed satisfactorily.

36. The project’s financial management performance was rated moderately satisfactory mainly
    due to late submission of the fiduciary and audit reports such as the financial management
    reports. This problem can be partly linked to scarce human resources especially in the project
    accounting and procurement areas due to high staff turn-over. Most trained staff repeatedly
    left for better paying assignments outside the Utility.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

37. The turn-around of the Rwandan Electricity sector, made possible in part by the IDA UERP
    credit, has put an end to power shortages. In addition, it has created the foundation for the
    National Electricity Access Roll-out Program (NERP), agreed between the Government of
    Rwanda and the development partners in March 2009. The program aims to triple access to
    electricity in Rwanda to reach 350,000 customers (from a base of a mere 110,000) by 2013.
    The IDA Board of directors approved in October 2009 a US$70 million equivalent credit for
    investments made towards the objectives set forth in the NERP in the Electricity Access
    Scale-up and SWAp Development Project.

38. Project sustainability is judged satisfactory, with project investments yielding significant
    positive returns and expected to attain their projected useful lifetime. The project’s emphasis
    on technical assistance and capacity building support has strengthened sector performance
    and policy implementation as evidenced by increased budget execution and improved utility
    performance.

39. The sector has emerged from a period of supply shortages, helped by better-than-average
    rainfall and additional base-load thermal generation. A number of new generation projects
    are under various stages of development, many utilizing lower cost indigenous energy
    sources (see graph below). These projects include the Rukarara Hydropower station (9.5 MW
    commissioned December 2010), and the Nyabarongo Hydropower station (27.5 MW, 2013).
    Together, the projects account for a more than 70 percent increase in national generation
    capacity installed, and are adequate to supply the incremental demand from the increased
    access program and medium term load growth. In addition, following development of the
    Lake Kivu Methane Gas Resource Pilot Plant producing 1.8 MW since October 2008, the
    GoR recently signed a power purchase agreement with a private sponsor, Contour Global, to
    develop 100 MW of electricity generation in two phases. The first 25 MW plant may be in
    operation by early 2012. In the longer term, the increased regional integration of the regional
    power market under the auspices of the East-Africa Power Pool (EAPP) will enable Rwanda
    to import power from its neighbors to bridge supply deficits.




                                                11
      Figure 1: Generation Expansion—From Supply Shortage to System Expansion
                                          250

                                                       System Expansion
                                          200          Emergency Capacity
                Installed Capacity (MW)
                                                       Existing Supply
                                                       Forecast Demand (t+1)
                                          150



                                          100



                                           50



                                            0
                                                2004   2005   2006       2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013

Source: Castalia Consulting Group,. March 2009. “National Electricity Access Program Investment Prospectus.”
             For ESMAP, Washington, DC: The World Bank,



40. The policy, regulatory, and private sector development initiatives advanced by the GoR and
    its line ministry MININFRA are by and large moving the sector in the right direction.
    Notably, several laws have been approved that together define the emerging sector structure
    and institutional framework, including the GoR’s policy to increase private sector
    investments primarily in generation (IPP and PPP structures for large-scale hydro and
    methane gas) and off-grid electricity distribution. Besides the Electricity and Gas Laws, other
    key reform initiatives include: (i) unbundling of the national monopoly and the vertically
    integrated utility, Electrogaz (RECO), into separate electricity and water parastatals. The two
    separate Water and Electricity successor utilities, RWASCO and RECO will in the next step
    of the reform be integrated within the Electricity, Water and Sanitation Authority (ESWA);
    (ii) Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA) - enabling law has been enacted and
    RURA set up with a mandate for independent oversight of telecoms, electricity, and water
    sectors. Efforts under way to strengthen the capacity of RURA in the electricity subsector
    aim to position the sector for growth and increase direct investment in power generation,
    both domestic and foreign.

41. The Energy Efficiency program initiated under the project to promote the use of efficient
    lights (CFLs) was designed to be self-financing in the long term using the carbon finance
    revenues from the avoided emissions and aims to finance another approximately 300,000
    lamps for distribution to new customers. The Carbon Finance transaction underpinned by the
    CFL program was Rwanda’s first active participation in the CDM process under the Kyoto
    protocol. CFL distribution has been fully mainstreamed within the National Electricity
    Access Program (NEAP) to ensure that all new consumers benefit from 3-4 CFLs as part of
    their meter installation package to reduce consumption and increase affordability of the
    program.

                                                                                12
42. Adoption of a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) – The government has not only been
    committed to addressing the energy crisis but has also moved on harmonization of sector
    financing through a programmatic approach. There is a strong partnership among key
    Development Partners in Rwanda’s energy sector. The sector is coordinated through a Sector
    Wide Approach, with regular meetings of the sector working group. A spatial least-cost
    electricity investment program and financing prospectus have been prepared and formed the
    basis of support to the Bank follow-on project: “the Electricity Access Scale-up and Sector-
    wide Approach (SWAp) Development Project”.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

43. The project development objective remained fully relevant to Rwanda’s development
    priorities consistent with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and the Bank’s CAS. This is
    also demonstrated by IDA’s subsequent approval of new operations in the power sector (the
    Sustainable Energy Development Project and the Electricity Access Scale-up and Sector-
    wide Approach (SWAp) Development Project) which build on project achievements.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44. The achievement of the PDO with respect to improving the power supply objective is rated
    Satisfactory. The project outputs led to improved system reliability and increased installed
    capacity. The project contributed to addressing the severe power shortages in Rwanda by
    financing the construction of a new 20 MW power plant (Jabana HFO Power Plant) as well
    the upgrading and rehabilitation of the transmission grid. The UERP investments contributed
    to improve the supply and eliminate load shedding with electricity supply increasing from
    41MW in 2004 to 75MW in 2010 and load shedding reducing from approximately 50% at
    peak hours in 2004 to 0% in April 2009.

Component A: Power System Reinforcement
45. The results/outcomes achieved by the power system reinforcement are overall rated as
    Highly Satisfactory. The Project development objective to alleviate power supply shortages
    was attained and even surpassed with the additional investments and rental generation
    brought on-line by government resources during the project period. Investments in the
    transmission and distribution have contributed to a reduction of technical system outages and
    losses reduction of about 9 percentage points by the project close (25% to 16%) in addition to
    improved revenue collection with the billing to supply ratio at about 84% from about 72%.

Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
46. The results/outcomes achieved by component are rated Satisfactory. The component has
    contributed to institutional changes and practices, including (i) improved sector budget
    execution; (ii) the enactment of the new electricity law and (iii) implementation of a realistic
    and adequate tariff structure.



                                                13
Component C: Domestic Resource Development & Efficient Utilization
47. The results/outcomes achieved by the component are rated Satisfactory. Advisory services
    funded by the UERP assisted the government of Rwanda to develop the initial 4 MW
    methane gas fired pilot plant and to conclude negotiations on the country’s first private sector
    owned and operated power plant (100MW)2, using domestic methane gas from Lake Kivu.
    The involvement of the private sector will bring much needed technical expertise to develop
    Rwanda’s indigenous gas resource as well as significant flows of foreign direct investment
    (FDI) capital to reduce the burden on the country’s budget (first 25 MW phase of project is
    expected to attract up to USD100 million in FDI). Another development benefiting from the
    project’s general capacity building and funding of advisory services is the government’s
    recent agreement with India Exim bank to finance the construction of the Nyabarongo (27
    MW) hydropower plant expected to be commissioned early 2012.

3.3 Efficiency
48. The economic analysis of the project is detailed in Annex 3. Table 2 shows the economic
    internal rate of return (EIRR) and the NPVs estimated during project appraisal as reflected in
    the PAD and at the time of the preparation of this ICR. The result shows that the project is
    still economically viable and has contributed to improve the economic welfare in Rwanda.

                    Table 2: ERR and Project Economic NPV for Component A

                                              EIRR                NPV at 10% discount
                                                                  rate
                     PAD                      12.8%               US$ 11.9 million
                     ICR                      11.5%               US$ 2.8 million

49. The slight decrease in the ex-post EIRR and economic NPV from the initial assessment
    mainly reflects a combination of the following factors: (i) increased HFO cost from
    US$0.097 to US$0.148 due to the rise in crude oil prices over the period, which added to the
    economic cost; and (ii) the removal of avoided fuel cost from the economic benefit because
    of the changing funding source. However, the assumptions adopted in this analysis are
    conservative and therefore estimates presented represent a floor of the possible net economic
    benefits materialized.




2
  The Project will initially add 25MW generation capacity, and potentially an additional 75MW at a later stage. The
initial phase of 25MW MIGA PRG covering US$95 million of the (equity/shareholder loan) of the deal capex of
US$140million was approved by the Bank Board March 31,2011 and signed May 4,2011.




                                                        14
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
50. The UERP was designed to address the three core challenges in the energy sector - adjusting
    the physical and financial shortfalls in the power sector, strengthening the capacity of sector
    institutions, and initiating the preparation for the development of locally available energy
    resources, at a lower cost than fuel imports, for development of a long term sustainable
    power sector. As evident in the preceding paragraphs, the Rwanda Energy sector has made
    significant strides to address these challenges during the project implementation period. The
    project thus had a clear strategic relevance by directly supporting Rwanda's economic
    transformation and poverty reduction strategy described in the Government's Poverty
    Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

51. All the project components are rated Satisfactory and the project has met its objectives of
    alleviating power shortages and enhancing the capabilities of energy sector institutions. The
    Borrower’s capacity to manage development in the sector has been strengthened as
    evidenced from the fact that a regulatory environment conducive to attracting private
    investments into the sector is in place; and measures have been taken to ensure sustainability
    for future operations of the various activities among which are the sector development,
    maintenance and operation of the project outputs, system loss reduction and development of
    local resources. Following the institutional set up and enacting of the new electricity law and
    by adopting cost reflective tariffs, the sector is positioned to be financially self reliant in the
    long term. Advisory services also assisted the Government of Rwanda to conclude
    negotiations on the country’s first private sector owned and operated power plant (25MW),
    using domestic methane gas from Lake Kivu. The involvement of the private sector will
    bring much needed technical expertise to develop Rwanda’s indigenous gas resource as well
    as significant flows of foreign direct investment (FDI) capital to reduce the burden on the
    country’s budget.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

52. Because of the relationship between power supply, economic development and poverty
    alleviation, the project intended to contribute to the reduction of poverty by removing one of
    the most significant obstacles to the country’s economic development, namely the limited
    and unreliable electricity supply. The UERP project has positively affected everyday life in
    Rwanda, especially in urban areas, by helping to eliminate the power cuts affecting
    thousands of households every evening for hours on end. The elimination of wide spread
    power cuts has also enabled businesses to increase their competitiveness as they no longer
    have to operate costly diesel generator sets and increased the attractiveness of Rwanda as an
    investment destination. It is likely that the project contributed to poverty alleviation. The
    sharp tariff increases experienced during the project implementation period would have been
    even more pronounced without the project’s dual focus on increased generation using least
    cost HFO technology and improved efficiency (reducing losses and accelerating uptake of
    CFLs).




                                                  15
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

53. The sector regulatory framework put in place has enabled GoR to leverage budget resources
    with private investments to accelerate development of local energy resources. This in the
    long term will not only lead to increased inflow of FDI and free up budgetary resources for
    social sectors but will also assure the sustainability of the sector in providing least cost
    reliable power supply.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

54. The CFL program was not initially in the project design, but was later included as a quick
    impact energy efficiency program intervention. The project supported procurement of
    400,000 bulbs which translated into a power demand reduction of about 15MW. This
    intervention had a multi-thronged impact by: (i) deferring the generation investment of
    equivalent power supply; and (ii) increased affordability especially to poor households whose
    main use of electricity is lighting. Acknowledging the impact and success of the program, the
    utility has continued to aggressively promote of CFLs using its own funds and advance
    payment on carbon finance revenues.

55. The turn-around of the Rwandan Electricity sector, made possible in part by the IDA UERP
    credit, has put an end to power shortages. It has also created the foundation for the National
    Electricity Access Roll-out Program (NERP), agreed between the Government of Rwanda
    and the development partners in March 2009. The program aims to triple access to electricity
    in Rwanda to reach 350,000 customers (from a base of a mere 110,000) by 2013. The IDA
    Board of directors approved in October 2009 a US$70 million equivalent credit for
    investments made towards the objectives set forth in the NERP in the Electricity Access
    Scale-up and SWAp Development Project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

56. The Borrower conducted a stakeholder survey at the project close and interviewed some of
    the key stakeholders. Most of the interviewed key stakeholders were satisfied with the
    improvements in the quality and quantity of electricity supply.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
57. The risk to the Development Outcome of this operation is rated as Low. With regard to the
    power supply objective, it is clear that the project has supported installation of generation and
    transmission facilities that will sustain power supply reliability over the long term. Further,
    measures are being taken to diversify and increase power generation to mitigate both the
    risks posed by the variability of the hydrology and petroleum prices by focusing on the Lake
    Kivu methane gas. The GoR assigns a high priority to a stable and growing power sector in
    supporting its economic development programs, and the Bank and other development
    partners are presently funding several substantial new operations in the sector, including
    institutional support for sector strengthening and development.


                                                 16
58. Other risk factors related to the sector development components are also rated Low.
    Institutional changes are already implemented such as unbundling of Electrogaz into RECO
    and RWASCO and the further proposed set up of EWSA in addition to enhancing
    performance of the Regulatory Agency.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
59. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
    judged to be Moderately Satisfactory. At the concept stage, the prioritization of the Bank
    funded activities was done within the context of the sector situation that required urgent
    intervention measures to reduce the power shortages at the same time laying a foundation for
    future investments in the sector. Thus, the simple design and implementation arrangements
    to ease implementation and enhance sustainability that took into consideration the weak
    capacity of the implementing agency. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into
    account technical, financial, economic, and fiduciary concerns, including procurement and
    financial management aspects. A number of alternatives were also considered for the project
    design. To respond to the urgency of the supply crisis, the project preparation and appraisal
    was completed in the shortest possible time (about 5 months). The assignment was carried
    out with an adequate number of specialists who provided the technical skill mix necessary to
    address sector concerns and project design issues. The Bank provided adequate resources, in
    terms of staff weeks and budget, to ensure quality preparation and appraisal work and
    maintained a good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
    Considering the urgency of the needs to be addressed by the project and the subsequent slow
    start of project implementation that included several changes in the scope works, it is evident
    that the high pace of project preparation affected the quality of the investment identification
    process, and the borrower’s ability to correctly analyze the investment options available. This
    was instead done during the first 12 months of implementation, and while improving the
    overall outcomes of the IDA credit, delayed the arrival of the results by at least 12-18 months.


(b) Quality of Supervision

 Rating: Satisfactory
60. The project was well supervised by a stable Bank team, consisting of multi-disciplinary
    members, and without significant changes in team composition throughout implementation.
    Supervision teams were supported by specialists for addressing specific issues which had
    been identified. Issues which could affect project implementation were identified in a timely
    manner, documented, and brought to the attention of management. The initial teething
    problems experienced during the project start-up in 2005 and 2006 were addressed by
    increasing team implementation support and by the stationing of a World Bank energy
    specialist from 2007-2010 in the Rwanda country office to lead the project for the remainder
    of the implementation period. The decentralization of TTL responsibilities to the field with


                                                17
   the previous DC based TTL providing continuous team support during an extended period
   can be seen as an example of effective decentralization with excellent development outcomes.

61. Financial Management supervision has been satisfactory and the adequacy of financial
    management arrangements has been reviewed regularly with a close follow up of the quality
    of the FM reports and implementation of recommendations of external audits. Safeguards
    policies were specifically monitored and addressed, and the team worked with the relevant
    agencies to help ensure environmental and social due diligence, inter alia through the
    implementation of the RPF and ESMF. The quality and candor of supervision reports was
    good, including reporting on the outcome indicators.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
62. The overall Bank performance was Satisfactory. Adequate teams and resources were fielded
    during the preparation, appraisal and supervision. The continued Bank engagement and
    support resulted in additional financing through follow up operations for Increased
    Electricity Access Scale-up and SWAp development project and the GEF/AFREA
    Sustainable Energy Development Project, focusing on development of renewable energy and
    energy efficiency initiatives.


5.2 Borrower Performance
    (a) Government Performance

 Rating: Highly Satisfactory
63. Government commitment to the main development objective was strong from the outset with
    GoR providing considerable financing from their scarce resources towards co-financing of
    the power plant investment in addition to the financing of rental power and corresponding
    sector subsidies to mitigate the high cost of generation. Perhaps even more significantly the
    government of Rwanda moved proactively to address one of the most difficult challenges to
    project success, the inadequate tariff levels, by rapidly moving to near full cost recovery. The
    GoR took these steps in recognition of the detrimental effect the growing recurrent subsidies
    to Electrogaz had on the country’s finances, effectively crowding out spending on priority
    development and reform programs. The government also played a decisive role in developing
    long term sustainable domestic energy supply options by being an active partner with the
    private sector in the development of Kivu Gas resource and by driving the development of
    remaining regional and domestic hydro resources.

64. The project steering committee, comprised of Senior GoR officials, provided the necessary
    implementation oversight, ensuring that emerging issues requiring GoR action were
    addressed. Overall, GoR demonstrated a satisfactory level of ownership and commitment to
    the successful completion of the project.




                                                18
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
65. Project Supervision Assessments have judged the implementation capacity of the PCU as
    adequate. The PCU had the overall oversight responsibility for the full project
    implementation. The PCU showed strong leadership in supervising and ensuring successful
    execution of the investment components including the construction of the Jabana HFO plant,
    among the largest and most complex infrastructure investments in the country to date.
    However there was continued weak capacity in aspects related financial management,
    environmental safeguards and M&E. The MTR noted that the finance unit was inadequately
    staffed with limited or no segregation of duties. In addition, supervision missions noted
    delays in submission of safeguard reports, fiduciary and audit reports such as FMRs and slow
    payment of individual consultants hired under the project. Part of the reason for the lackluster
    performance in this regard was the high staff turn-over due to increased competition for key
    project staff in new donor and government funded projects. PCU had difficulties producing
    acceptable EIA and EMPs reports for the investment activities and had to be supported to
    finalize the various reports in the last year of project implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
66. The overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory. Commitment of the government
    to the project objectives was strong as evidenced from the difficult actions undertaken
    including increasing electricity tariffs significantly and commitment of the scarce public
    resources. However, there was mixed performance during implementation mainly due to
    capacity constraints at the implementing agency level.


6. Lessons Learned

67. Supply side and demand side should be tackled together to enhance outcomes. Electricity
    shortages need to be addressed from both supply side (generation) and demand side (energy
    efficiency) as they complement each other. The agreed changes to the UER project scope
    added significant energy efficiency components to the project design further increasing the
    development impact. By suppressing the demand increase through energy efficiency
    measures, the project created sufficient breathing room to allow Rwanda to emerge from the
    energy crisis and allow the GOR to develop long term sustainable power supply based on
    domestically available resources (Rukarara and Nyabarongo HPPs, Lake Kivu methane Gas).

68. Early acknowledgement of shortfalls in project design and proactivity can ensure realism.
    Projects, like the UERP, that are designed to meet urgent needs arising from macro shocks or
    unforeseen breakdowns (in this case regional drought conditions) need to be delivered as fast
    as possible while recognizing that the optimal solutions and design might evolve during the
    initial implementation period as the borrower’s analysis of the crisis evolve. In UERP, the
    Government and the WB energy team recognized this and took a pragmatic view to the
    shortcomings in initial project design related to capacity forecasts and quickly agreed to


                                                19
   increase the thermal generation capacity from 12.5MW to 20MW to be able to cover the
   generation gap requirements, further increasing the projects development impact.

69. Decentralization of Project Supervision: In countries and sectors with limited experience and
    institutional capacity, the World Bank group can provide considerable value added by
    decentralizing project supervision and implementation support resources to country offices.
    The proximity of the project TTL to the PCU considerably accelerated the pace of
    implementation and disbursement of funds while further leveraging the results towards new
    Bank operations.

70. Realism in Project Implementation Planning. The Bank as well as borrowers should be
   realistic about the time it takes to initiate and complete project activities, taking into account
   the implementation capacity of the borrower and the potential technical challenges in project
   implementation. Labeling a project “Urgent” while responding to a crisis create expectations
   that can be difficult to manage when procurement activities are slow to advance and results
   take time to materialize.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

71. NDF - NDF participation into UERP was designed to complement the IDA activities with
    investments in the transmission and distribution system required to evacuate the additional
    generation, increase reliability and reduce network losses. There were implementation
    challenges; with the failure of the first procurement attempt due to low quality of substation
    designs and bidding documents and later implementation delays. In projects where there are
    co-financed with different procedures different from the Bank, it is important that an early
    understanding is reached on collaboration during implementation.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders -None.




                                                20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
           Components                                           Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                                   millions)
Power System Reinforcement                   19.90                   44.34              217
Technical Assistance and Capacity
                                              4.10                    4.38              122
Building
Domestic Resources                            3.0                     6.45              16.7

                Total Baseline Cost          27.0                    55.17              204
Physical Contingencies
                                              2.90                    0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              1.40                    0.00              0.00
                Total Project Costs          31.30                   55.17              176
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                    0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                    0.00               .00
        Total Financing Required             31.30                   55.17              176




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                    Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                               0.25           18.62          745
 International Development Association
                                                        25.00           25.69        102
(IDA)
 Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                          6.50            10.86        167




                                                 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Power System Reinforcement

A.1 Generation
Supply and install 20 MW Thermal Power Plant. The power plant was commissioned April 2009.

A.2    Transmission-co financed by NDF
Under this component, the following outputs were achieved:

      A new 110/15kV Birembo substation in the North of the city of Kigali;
      Transfer and installation of 110/70 kV autotransformer from the existing substation of JABANA
       to BIREMBO substation
      Rehabilitation works in five 110kV substations (JABANA, KIGOMA, KARONGI, KIBOGORA
       and MURURU I).

A.3     Distribution
Rehabilitation of the Electricity Distribution Networks-The component activities covered
rehabilitation of priority in the distribution network of ELECTROGAZ including line extensions
in urban and peripheral urban areas. The investments included construction, upgrading and
rehabilitation of the following:
            (a) Construction of a Single and Double Circuit Lines- MV: (i) Birembo- Deutch
                Welle; (ii) Birembo- Remera II and (iii) Birembo-Rubungu-Kimironko-
                Nyandungu
            (b) Rehabilitation of Ring Mains Substation-MV-15KV at the DW, Rubongo,
                Remera II and KBC (Kimuhura) and a new control panel at Karongi
            (c) Installation of 15/0.4KV distributions transformers (tower mounted) at UAAC
                and Nyabisindu
            (d) Construction of low voltage network for consumers in Rubungo.

Component B: Technical Assistance and Capacity Building
B.1     Project Implementation
Support to the PCU- The project financed the following staff positions at the PCU: (i) Project
Manager; (ii) Finance Manager; (iii) Project Engineer; (iv) Procurement Specialist; (v)
Accountant; (vi) Administrative Officer; and (vii) Other support staff. In addition, the project
financed technical assistance for engineering supervision and site management for power system
reinforcement.

B.2      Institutional Strengthening of ELECTROGAZ- This sub-component provided technical
assistance and training to ELECTROGAZ in the following areas: (i) Support for establishment of
a computer based financial management system; (ii) Engineering and procurement planning; and
(iii) Priority training needs. Under this sub-component of the project the following activities have
been performed: (i) Engineering Supervision Firm was recruited; (ii) 400 000 compact
fluorescent bulbs were procured; (iii) Chief Finance Officer for ELECTROGAZ ; (iv) Financial
Advisor ; (v) A communication program for Promotional Campaign for Energy Saving Lamps
was prepared; (vi) Four senior managers are pursued master programs at the school of Finance

                                                22
and Banking and (vii) several of the Electricity Department attended short courses in utility
operations and management.

B.3     Institutional strengthening of other Agencies
Technical support and training under this sub-component involved Ministry of Infrastructure
(MININFRA) and Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Agency (RURA). It included: (i) Review and
revision of existing electricity legislation; (ii) Preparation of new gas legislation; (iii) Preparation
of regulations for licensing and pricing; (iv) Training in energy and environmental economics,
policy development and execution; (v) Program design for rural and renewable energy; (vi)
Development of rules and regulations for review of regulatory matters; and (vii) Development of
procedures for monitoring and performance audits. Under this sub-component of the project the
following activities have been performed: (i) Drafting of laws and regulations for electricity and
gas -approved by Parliament; (ii) Financial/Transaction advisor to MININFRA and (iii) Lake
Kivu Monitoring program.

Component C- Domestic Resource Development & Efficient Utilization-

This sub-component was intended for pre-feasibility/feasibility studies for the next increment of
hydroelectric power and efficient utilization of biomass resources. No activities were under this
project as MININFRA has chosen other means to finance these activities.




                                                  23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1. At the time of appraisal, net economic benefits, in terms of net present value and economic
   internal rate of return (EIRR), were estimated for a time slice (2005-2008) of the
   Electrogaz’s investment program. Given that the investment components have already been
   materialized ex-post, this section adopts similar methodologies used in the ex-ante economic
   analysis but applies them for the actualized investment components. Key assumptions and
   results are discussed below.

Economic Analysis

2. In the PAD, the EIRR and economic NPV (at 10 percent discount rate) of the project were
   estimated to be 12.8 percent and US$11.9 million respectively. The economic benefits
   consisted of: (i) incremental demand for electricity served by the Project, (ii) reduction in
   technical losses, (iii) avoided fuel cost from the use of additional hydropower, and (iv)
   avoided use of captive power by large consumers. The economic costs were: (i) capital
   expenditures in the sector in accordance with the Electrogaz’s investment program, (ii)
   project operations and maintenance (O&M) costs, and (iii) fuel costs.

3. Ex-post, a few changes have been made to these components of economic costs and benefits.
   On the economic cost, instead of assuming capital expenditures sector-wide, the expenditures
   are limited to those items directly related to the project because components have already
   been materialized and are identifiable. On the economic benefit, avoided fuel cost from the
   use of additional hydropower is no longer included because the envisaged studies on large
   and micro hydropower plant sites were dropped from the project and were supported by other
   funding sources. Moreover, to be consistent with the treatment of the capital expenditures in
   economic costs, the economic benefits that derive from the reduction in technical losses are
   assumed to be a fraction of the entire system losses that has taken place. Because precise data
   on the extent to which the project has contributed to the technical losses was not available,
   this is assumed to be the share of the project costs in the overall sector investment costs.
   Except for these changes, this ex-post economic analysis adopts similar methodologies as
   was originally done, with updated assumptions attached below. Given that energy efficiency
   component, which was added to the original project scope, is not included in the project
   benefit due to data constraints, the results represent a conservative estimate.

4. The EIRR and economic NPV (at 10 percent discount rate) thus calculated are 11.5 percent
   and US$ 2.8 million respectively. This result shows that the project is still economically
   viable and has contributed to improve the economic welfare in Rwanda.




                                               24
Table 1: ERR and Project Economic NPVs for Component A
                                   EIRR          NPV at 10% discount
                                                 rate
                 PAD               12.8%         US$ 11.9 million
                 ICR               11.5%         US$ 2.8 million

5. The slight decrease in the ex-post EIRR and economic NPV from the initial assessment
   mainly reflects a combination of the following factors: (i) increased HFO cost from
   US$ 0.097 to US$0.148 due to the rise in crude oil prices over the period, which added to the
   economic cost; and (ii) the removal of avoided fuel cost from the economic benefit because
   of the changing funding source. However, as noted above, the assumptions adopted in this
   analysis are conservative and therefore estimates presented represent a floor of the possible
   net economic benefits materialized.

6. A summary of economic costs and benefits streams as well as the assumptions used are
   presented below.

   Key assumptions:
      i.  Capital expenditures include the investment components supported by the World
          Bank and NDF.
     ii.  Operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses are assumed to be 2 percent of the
          capital expenditures. This is similar to the proportion assumed in the PAD analysis.
   iii.   Electricity tariffs are assumed to be US$0.19 per kWh on average. This is derived
          from the weighted average of the actual industrial and non-industrial electricity tariff
          levels prevailing in the country since 2006.
    iv.   Load shedding has improved by 3,395 hours between 2006 and 2009. Due to lack of
          data, this reduction is assumed to have taken place evenly over four years.
     v.   Fuel price is assumed based on crude price US$101.16/bbl (as of March 11, 2011),
          which translates to the HFO price of US$0.15/kWh and diesel price of US$0.28/kWh.
    vi.   Sector capital expenditures are taken from the Electrogaz/RECO’s purchase of
          property, plant and equipment between 2006 and 2010. Taking the share of the
          project capital expenditures in this, the contribution of the project to the entire loss
          reduction is assumed to be 29 percent.
   vii.   Based on the historical data, the additional demand served from the Jabana HFO plant
          per year is assumed to be approximately 75 GWh.




                                               25
                                 Table 1: Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits
                                   Costs                                                    Benefits

                                                               Incremental
                                                                 demand                     Avoided fuel Avoided self-
Year          CAPEX        O&M             Fuel     Total         served     Loss reduction     cost      generation      Total      Net Benefits
       2006      2.0               0            -        2.0             0.0              0          0.0        0.59           0.6         -1.41
       2007      0.4               0            -        0.4             0.0         0.21            0.0        0.59           0.8          0.40
       2008     17.6               0            -       17.6             0.0         0.45            0.0        0.59           1.0        -16.57
       2009      7.3               0         4.48       11.8             5.7         0.73            0.0        0.59           7.1         -4.73
       2010      4.3         0.6            11.12       16.1            14.2         1.06            0.0        0.00          15.3         -0.80
       2011      0.0         0.6            11.12       11.8            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.48
       2012            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2013            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2014            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2015            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2016            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2017            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2018            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2019            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2020            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2021            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2022            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2023            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2024            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2025            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2026            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2027            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2028            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2029            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2030            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2031            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2032            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2033            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53
       2034            0     0.6            11.12       11.7            14.2         1.06            0.0            0         15.3          3.53

                                                                                                                             EIRR         11.5%
                                                                                                                         NPV@10%            2.80




                                                        27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                             Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending/Supervision/ICR

Otieno Ayany                 Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM
Paul Baringanire             Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG
Noreen Beg                   Senior Environmental Specialist.   AFTEN
Fabrice Karl Bertholet       Senior Financial Analyst           AFTEG
Mary C.K. Bitekerezo         Senior Social Development Spec     AFTCS
Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies      Lead Energy Specialist             SASDE
Raihan Elahi                 Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG
Erik Magnus Fernstrom        Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG
Martin Fodor                 Senior Environmental Specialist.   AFTEN
Diego Garrido Martin         E T Consultant                     AFTRL
Chandrasekar Govindarajalu   Senior Energy Specialist           MNSEG
Marc L. Heitner              Consultant                         MNSSD
Bathilde Jyulijyesage        Program Assistant                  AFMRW
Chantal Kajangwe             Procurement Analyst                AFTPC
Anta Loum Lo                 Language Program Assistant         AFTEG
Sunil W. Mathrani            Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG
Arun P. Sanghvi              Consultant                         SASDE
Ashok Sarkar                 Senior Energy Specialist           SEGEN
Dawit Yohannes               Language Program Assistant         AFTEG




                                             28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                      37                       275.82
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            37                       275.82
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                       3                        19.37
  FY06                                      15                        57.78
  FY07                                      17                        85.76
  FY08                                      30                       103.21
  FY09                                      17                        58.01
 FY10                                       13                        69.0
 FY11                                        3                        11.10
                          Total:            82                       404.23




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
None




                                      30
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
None




                                   31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR3

The pre project phase - The UERP had a very special pre project phase. 1997-2004 was a
very exceptional turbulent time in Rwanda’s power sector and in Rwanda’s national
economy. The situation is clearly outlined in GoR’s strategy paper issued during this
phase.

Attainment of project objectives and project design: The UERP has without doubt
attained all objectives. The UERP project was undoubtedly a really successful project.
This was the view of all stakeholders and by the ICR consultant. The technical outages
has dropped from 4500 hours for year 2004 to a level of 50-100 hours on a yearly basis at
the end of year 2009. Stakeholders have expressed that the TA activities implemented
have implied capacity building within RURA, MININFRA and RECO.

Institutional Set-up and Transfer of Knowledge: Setting up of a separate project
organization was one key success factor in the implementation of UERP. A special
Steering Committee headed by the MININFRA and a special project organization besides
the line organization in Electrogaz were set up . The GoR chose this set up in order to
maximize coordination between the involved institutions. There was also the non-official
set up where the project manager for UERP took part in Electrogaz Management
meetings and thus Electrogaz was given the “ownership” during the project
implementation and provided resources to different activities in the project. This non-
official institutional set up worked extremely well in the UERP. Although having a very
successful institutional set up, the UERP didn’t fully use the opportunity for transfer of
management knowledge from the project to the line organization.

The borrower’s performance: The UERP team has operated most effectively within the
responsibility framework given to them. UERP has had best possible support by the line
organization.

Evaluation of the performance by the Bank: All stakeholders have verified that the WB
has been very supportive during the whole process from identification to completion.
One may however have expected a more detailed and complete follow up of the short
comings in the borrower’s reporting of covenants.

Arrangements for sustainability of project activities beyond IDA funding: There are no
further connected investments to the SAG and AREVA deliveries. Performance
indicators to be used to monitor rehabilitated sub stations and the TPP Jabana should be
based on present performance measurements and new performance indicators proposed
by the supplier. The performance indicators should also be reconciled by using bench
marking.



3
 The Borrower ICR was prepared by an Independent Consultant and the report has been approved by the
Borrower.


                                                 32
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NDF’S COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT ICR REPORT IDA-40320

URGENT ELECTRICITY REHABILITATION PROJECT -NORDIC DEVELOPMENT
FUND CREDIT NO. NDF 438

Credit amount: original EUR 5 million, increased to EUR 7.5 million in 2007

Key dates:
       Signing                9.6.2005
       Effectiveness          21.09.2006 (additional credit 19.4.2007)
       Closing                30.4.2010

Disbursement rate as per             30.4.2010              100%

Rating:
               Implementing Agency performance Satisfactory
               Lead Agency (WB) cooperation    Moderately satisfactory
               Project outcomes                Satisfactory

NDF participation into UERP was designed jointly with IDA to coordinate the
investments to be financed by IDA and NDF. NDF credit was earmarked for the
transmission sub-component.

After active cooperation in the early stages of the project preparation and procurement of
the transmission sub-component, IDA participation in monitoring and reporting on the
NDF-financed contract was rather limited.

Contract management and supervision by Electrogaz team was above satisfactory but
failure of the first procurement round, mainly due to quality of the bidding documents,
and irregular reporting to NDF caused the performance of the Implementing Agency not
to be rated higher than satisfactory.

As the transmission sub-component was part of the UERP, NDF would appreciate if it
could be covered more comprehensively in the ICR of the Bank.

NDF endorses the assessments in the draft ICR report.


NDF/11.04.2011




                                            33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      Project Appraisal Document: Rwanda Urgent Electricity Rehabilitation Project
       dated December 27,2004 (Report No: 30253-RW)

      Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

      Project Progress Reports.

      Project Mid Term Report, January 21,2009

      Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, August 2010

      Draft Project Handover Report, February 2011

      Environmental Management reports including Impact Assessment reports (EIAs),
       Abbreviated Resettlement Action plans (ARAPs)

      Project Audit reports and Interim Financial reports




                                           34
                                                                                                           29°30'E                                                      30°00'E                                                     30°30'E                                                       31°00'E

                           RWAN D A                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kafunzo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1°00'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kagitumba
                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                  AKARERE (DISTRICT) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                              UGANDA                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kikagati

                                  INTARA (PROVINCE) CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kag
                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         era
                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0            10         20       30    40 Kilometers
                                  RIVERS
                                                                                                                                  Kisoro                                                                              Nyagatare
                                  MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                         gitumba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                  10             20          30 Miles
                                  AKARERE (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                                                                                          To                 Muvumba
                                                                                                                                   Kidaho            Butaro            Kabale                                      N YA G A T A R E




                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ka
                                  INTARA (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES                                                                                       Lac
                                                                                                                                 Burera                                                                                                             Lac
                                                                                                 Volcan                                              Burera                                                                               Rwanyakizinga
                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     Karisimbi      MUSANZA                      BURERA                               Mulindi Gatunda
                                                                                  1°30'S       (4519 m)             Muhoza         Lac                  Kirambo                                                                                                                                                         1°30'S
                                                                                                                               Ruhondo               Cyeru                                                                                               Lac
                                                                                                            Busogo                                                           G ICUMBI                                            Gabiro                 Mikindi
                                                                                                                                                     Kinihira
                                                   29°00'E                                                                                                                                                                        G AT S I B O
                                                                              To
                                                                                                               Mukamira
                                                                                                                                                       NORTH                           Byumba            Gatsibo
                                                                           Rutshuru      RUBAVU
                                                                                                           N YA B I H U           Nemba
                                                                                                                                                 Gakenke                                                                             EAST
                                                                                           Vir
                                                                       To             Rubavu     Kagali                                                                                                                                                              Lac
                                                                      Sake                                      Karago                            PROVINCE                                Kinyami             Kabarore                                              Hago
                                                                          Gisenyi Nyondo
                                                                                               un                                                                    Tare                                      Kiziguru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROVINCE
                                                                                                ga              Muramba                GAKENKE                                                                                                                Lac
                                                                                                                                                                 RULINDO                                                                                   Kivumba
              D E M . R E P.                                                                                         Kabaya      Ngaru
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Muhura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rukara                            Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bugene
                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                     Mbogo                                          Lac                                                  Ihema




                                                                                                                                         Ny
                   OF
                                                                                                    ts.
                                                                                                              Ngororero                                                                                            Muhazi




                                                                                                                                           ab
                                                                                RUTSIRO                                                                Shyorongi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K AY O N Z A




                                                                                                                                           ar
                CONGO                                    La c K ivu                                        NGORORERO                            go                                       GASABO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TA N Z A N I A




                                                                                                                                             no
                                                                                         Murunda
                                                                                                   WEST                                                                      KIGALI CITY                                        Mukarange
                                                                                                 Gihingo                                                                               Ndera
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gikoro Rwamagana
                                                                                                   OV
                                                                                               P RRutsiro I N C E                     Bulinga
                                                                                                                                                                     Rugenge       KIGALI
                                                                                                                                                      Rukoma                              Kicuro                   Bicumbi Kigabiro                               Lac
            2°00'S                                                                                                             MUHANGA                                                                                                                           Nasho                                                  2°00'S
                                                                                                     Mabanza                                                    NYARUGENGE               KICUKIRO          RWAMAGANA
                                                                                Kibuye                                         Nyamabuye
                                                                                                        Rubengera                                      KAMONYI                                                                                                                Lac
                                                                                                                                            Gitarama                                                                     Lac   Kigarama                        Lac            Mpanga
                                                                                               KARONGI                                                                                                                   Mugesera                           Cywambwe
                                                                                                                                                                            Bugesera     Nyamata                                    Kibungo
                                                                                         Gishyita
                                                                                                                                   RUHANGO                                                      Rilima
                                                                                                           Bwakira                                                                                                        NGOMA                            KIREHE
                                                                                               Ngoma                                                                                       Gashora                    Sake
                                                                                                                                  Masango
                                                                                                                                                     Ruhango                                                                                            Kirehe
                                                                                                                                                                                       BUGESERA
                                                                                                                             Gatagara
                                                                                                                                           N YA N Z A
                                                                    Kagano                                 SOUTH               Nyanza
                                                                                                                                            Busasamana                               Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                   Cyohoha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         g   era
                                                                Rwesero                         N YA M A G A B E                                                                     Sud                       Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                Kamembe N Y A M A S H E K E                         PROVINCE                               Rusatira                                                           Rweru                                         Lusahanga

                                                                                                            Gasaka            Karaba
                                              Cyangugu
                                                                                                                                 HUYE                                                             To
            2°30'S               To                                                        Kitabi          Gikongoro         Karama
                               Walangu                               Rwumba                                                                                                                    Kirundo
                                                                                                                                                GISAGARA
                                                             RUSIZI
                                    To                                                                                         Ngoma
                                 Nyya-Ghezi                                                      Ruramba                                   Butare       Ndora
                                                                                                                    Kibeho                                                                                                                                                    RWANDA
             This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                              yaru




             the Map Design Unit of The                                                                 N YA R U G U R U                        Kanzi
                                                                                                                                                           an




             World Bank. The boundaries,                 Bugarama                                          Munini       Kigembe
                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                            BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                         Ak




             colors, denominations and
                                                                          Cibitoke
             any other information shown
                                                           To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33471R2
             on this map do not imply, on
             the part of The World Bank                  Cibitoke
             Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                         To               To
             legal status of any territory,
JUNE 2008




                                                                                                                       Kayanza           Ngozi
             or any endorsement or
             acceptance of such
             boundaries.                           29°00'E                                                 29°30'E                                                      30°00'E                                                     30°30'E
