Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/07/2005 
Report No.:  AC1614
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Niger 
Project ID:  P083350 
Project Name:  Instit. Strengthening & Health Sector Support Program (ISHSSP) 
Task Team Leader:  Djibrilla Karamoko 
Estimated Appraisal Date: June 14, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: September 30, 2005 
Managing Unit:  AFTH2 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (70%);Other social services (30%) 
Theme:  Health system performance (P);Population and reproductive health (P);Child 
health (S);Other communicable diseases (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
25.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project will support the government s five-year National Health Development Plan 
(NHDP) for the period 2005-2009. The overall objective of the ISHSSP is to contribute 
in the reduction of maternal and child mortality while focusing efforts on reducing 
inequalities in health outcomes through improved resource management, higher quality 
and increased availability of health services and sector capacity.  
 
The proposed program will focus on addressing major institutional and organizational 
bottlenecks, which could prevent achievement of MDGs, and will support MoH s effort 
in the implementation of the NHDP in the following specific areas : (a) strengthen the 
strategy of human resources management; (b) improve the essential drugs and medical 
supplies management strategy; (c) strengthen health program and improve the quality of 
services; (d) improve the demand and accessibility; (e) strengthen the governance and the 
institutional capacity; (f) ensure an adequate and equitable financing; (g) improve the 
community participation.  
 
The NHDP serves as a policy framework that covers the entirety of health-related 
activities in Niger. The details of the ISHSSP are expected to change from year to year as 
reflected in annual work programs and budgets that are developed by each level (or cost 
Page  2
center), but would follow the policy framework of the MoH and the overall guidance of 
the NHDP and the financing plan.   
 
3. Project Description 
1.  
Strategic human resources management. Increase the number and quality, and 
optimize the distribution of human resources in health as well as modernize HR 
management to improve the efficiency and equity of Niger s health system. The program 
will focus on the priority staffing of existing health facilities at the peripheral levels (CS, 
CSI, DH) according to new staff norms starting with the most disadvantaged areas in 
terms of poverty and proportion of inadequately staffed facilities; the modernization and 
the decentralization of HR management to the regional level; and establishment of a 
flexible remuneration system with zone-specific contracts based on performance which 
will allow for higher salaries in remote zones to attract personnel. Key actions envisaged 
under this pillar are to: (a) revise human resources norms; (b) implement incentive 
systems to encourage redeployment of personnel in remote areas and reward individual 
and or unit s performance in achieving set objectives in their respective AWP; (c) 
develop and implement  career plans and effective human resources management tools; 
and (d) manage and implement training strategies both for basic and continuing 
education.  
 
2. 
Strategic essential drugs and medical supplies management. Increase the 
availability of essential drugs and medical supplies in all public health facilities and avoid 
inventory shortages of a selected list with the most essential drugs. Key actions envisaged 
under the pillar are : (a)overhaul of supply system by introducing competition, including 
international tenders; (b) the Introduction of new distribution practices based on lessons 
learned from other experiences; (c) prioritization and protection of budget allocations for 
essential drugs and supplies in negotiations between the MoH and the Ministry of 
Economy and Finance; (d) promotion of private sector participation in the distribution 
system, in particular in rural areas; (e)reduction of opportunities for illicit drug market; 
and (f)integration of traditional medicines into allopathic medical system.  
 
3. 
Health program strengthening and quality improvement. Strengthen the supply 
and improve the quality of most essential health services in order to reduce child and 
maternal mortality and ease the impact of communicable disease. Increase the 
effectiveness of essential reproductive health services, including maternal and child 
health care,to reduce the maternal and child mortality rates. Emphasis will be given to 
family planning (FP) activities, with special focus on birth-spacing and the avoidance of 
fistula. Increase the immunization coverage of children and women at reproductive age 
and control the outbreak of epidemics to reduce mortality and morbidity due to avoidable 
diseases. This pillar will focus on: (a) implementation of efficient programs to address 
major causes of morbidity and mortality for children less than five years old; (b) 
implementation of a sound reproductive health strategy with emphasis on larger coverage 
of obstetrical needs in the rural areas while strengthening the referral systems and the 
provision of mechanisms to finance those referrals; (c) promotion of modern family 
planning methods; (d) development of communication and education programs aimed at 
behavioral change, adequate training and availability of personnel.  
Page  3
4. 
Improvement of demand and accessibility. Promote the demand and improve the 
geographical access to essential health services provided at the primary level to persuade 
households to increase their low levels of demand for these services and thus contribute 
to a better overall health status. The key actions envisaged under this pillar are to: (a) 
improve access of the poor to quality basic health services, not by expansion, but by 
promoting outreach strategies aimed at bringing services closer to needy populations; (b) 
revise the cost recovery policy and adoption of measures for exemption for the poor 
(exoneration, gratuity of some drugs/products such as contraceptives, etc.)  
 
5. 
Good Governance and institutional strengthening. Strengthen good governance 
and the institutional capacity of the MoH at all levels to ensure that it can effectively 
assumes the responsibilities and tasks which have been newly defined in the framework 
of institutional reform. Particular emphasis will be given to promoting the separation of 
functions and to promote MoH leadership to coordinate the multiple actors involved in 
the health sector and introduce a sector-wide approach and performance based 
management system. This pillar aims to: (a) improve capacity for policy development 
and analysis, performance monitoring and evaluation; (b) clarify a sectoral 
decentralization policy management system; (c) revise a district development policy and 
hospital reform; (d) reorganize central, regional and district levels provision of services to 
strengthen personnel capacity and to insure an effective response to the implementation 
of health plan; (e) rationalize health investments according to a health map; (f) implement 
hospital reform taking in account the need to ensure an equitable access of poor people to 
services with quality of care; (g) strengthen the SNIS; and (h) strengthen the 
infrastructure and equipment management.  
 
6. 
Adequate and equitable financing. This pillar aims to ensure equitable access to a 
basic benefit package for the whole population by increasing government and donor 
financing, development of a redistributive budget allocation mechanism to balance 
regional and District level disparities and establishment of financial protection systems, 
including waivers and exemptions, equity funds, out of pocket payment caps, and other 
financial solidarity mechanisms. These instruments may have different expressions in 
different regions according to need and context. Key actions envisaged are to : (a)review 
resource allocation criteria to ensure greater equity, including adjustment of health 
financing mechanisms (cost recovery, implementation of mutuals, mobilization of 
collectivities, local government); (b) to implement an MTEF aimed at giving priority to 
improving the functioning of existing health facilities before expanding the system and 
ensuring that the level of funding is adequate to reach intended objectives; (c)implement 
an effective management tool for financial resources and equipment inventory; 
(d)develop programs aimed at harmonizing financial management and procurement 
procedures; and (e)work effectively under a budgetary decentralization management 
system including implementation of a performance-based management within all costs 
centers.  
 
7. 
Community Participation. Strengthen social participation and responsibility, in 
particular at the community level,to administer resource mobilization strategies, improve 
Page  4
responsiveness of the Niger health system, make the system more accountable, and 
promote community based health care. Key actions envisaged include: (a)creation of 
synergies between community committees and newly elected local councils; (b) 
development of marketing strategies to show tangible results and benefits of community 
participation; and (c)systematize and integrate the community health approaches 
developed by the different vertical programs, taking into account networks of community 
leaders and different community health agents.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project activities will take place at health facilities (hospital, clinics, centers) throughout 
the country, with particular attention to those serving the poorest population. No 
particular region will be targeted and both urban and rural zones will be covered.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Serigne Omar Fye (AFTS1) 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni (AFTS3) 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt (AFTS2) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The generation of medical waste at the project's health care facilities would be the major 
safeguard issue, which, if left unattended, could have significant long-term negative 
impacts on the environment and public health.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Potential long-term impacts would include soil pollution, groundwater and surface water 
pollution, air pollution, and infections with the HIV/AIDS virus among health care 
personnel, scavengers, and waste dump site operators.   
 
Page  5
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Given that this project has been designed in the context of Niger's health sector reforms, 
alternatives were not deemed relevant.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
To address project-specific issues related to medical waste management, the Borrower 
has prepared a medical waste management; this plan has been disclosed in Niger on May 
18, 2005, and at the Bank's Infoshop on May 23, 2005. The project will include 
institutional support for the Ministry of Health and Endemic Diseases to ensure effective 
implementation of the afore-mentioned plan.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
While the National Medical Waste Management Plan (2003) was developed in 
consultation with representatives of the technical services at the various central and 
regional levels in the country, the project-specific plan was developed by the Ministry of 
Health and Endemic Diseases, using the national plan as a basis.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/23/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/18/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/23/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
Page  6
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Djibrilla Karamoko 
06/02/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt 
06/02/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Abdoul-Wahab Seyni 
06/02/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Alexandre V. Abrantes 
06/02/2005 
Comments:  This is a delegated project. 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Alexandre V. Abrantes 
06/02/2005 
Comments:   
