Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
PAD STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1648 
Project Name 
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGHTENING AND HEALTH SECTOR 
SUPPORT PROGRAM 
(ISHSSP) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Health (70%);Other social services (30%) 
Project ID 
P083350 
Borrower(s) 
NIGER MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry Of Health 
Niger , PO Box : 623 
Tel: 227 72 27 82 
Fax: 227 73 35 70 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Niger, PO Box : 389 
Tel: 227 72 23 74 
Fax: 227 73 59 34 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 2005 
1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
A.  Key development issues
Niger is one of the world’s poorest countries. It has an annual gross national income (GNI) per capita of 
just US$180, and an average life expectancy of only 47 years. With a population of 10,790 million 
(2001), 80% of which live in rural areas, and a total fertility ratio of 7.5 children per woman, Niger has 
one of the highest population growth rates in the world (3.1%). According to UN projections in 2002, 
under optimistic assumptions (3.5 children per woman in 2050), Niger’s population will reach 53 million 
and will become the second highest populated West African country after Nigeria. As a Heavily Indebted 
Poor Country (HIPC), Niger must rapidly fulfill several human development targets set out in the 2002 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) to remain on track for the debt initiative, and make measurable 
progress toward achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
 
According to the country status report (CSR) on health prepared in 2002, despite some improvement over 
the last 10 years, Niger human development record is poor. At the exception of the prevalence of 
HIV/AIDS (at less than 1%), Niger’s health outcomes are very modest, compared to other Sub-Saharan 
African (SSA) countries: child mortality is 274 per 1,000, one of the highest rates in the region; child 
malnutrition rates reach 50%; and maternal mortality averages 700 per 100,000 live births (see selected 
indicators for Niger and other countries in table 1 and figure 1). The gaps between rural and urban areas 
as well as between socio-economic groups are significant. The results of the last Demographic Health 
Survey (DHS) carried out in 1998, show a modern contraceptive prevalence rate of only 2.1% in rural 
areas as opposed to 18.6% in urban areas. The main reasons for such poor performance are:  (a) the poor 
institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MoH); (b) insufficient funding of the sector 
(approximately 1.9% of GDP on average in the year 1990s); and (c) the uncertainty and lack of 
Page  2
coordination of donor funding. Over the next two decades, sustained efforts both from the Government 
and donors will be necessary for the country to be able to move towards reaching the MDGs. 
 
Key issues in the sector can be summarized as follows: 
 
(a) 
Inequitable access to basic health services
 : The access to the Niger health system is fraught 
with inequities of all types: geographic, structural, financial and cultural, while the health services 
delivered leave a lot to be desired in terms of their quality. Only 47% of the population has easy physical 
access to a health facility within a distance of 5 kilometers and with one out of six living beyond 15 Km. 
The difference of this indicator between urban and rural areas is huge (99% against 28%, respectively) 
and the variations among the different administrative regions are also considerable. In reality, the 
percentage of the population with real access to those facilities is even lower, as low income, stock 
depletion of pharmaceuticals and poor quality limit the utilization of health services. From 1996 to 2003, 
the average utilization rate per capita has decreased from 0.42 to 0.26, as stated in the population in the 
Poverty Assessment survey (2002). In the Beneficiary assessment carried out during the Niger Health II 
Project evaluation in 2003, 50% of the persons interviewed consider the poor quality of care as a major 
issue and 43% quoted the consultation fees, particularly in hospitals, as a major barrier to health care.  
 
(b) 
Low quality and limited supply of basic health services
 : Despite the pressing need to fight 
major causes of disease, disability and premature death, the most cost-effective interventions are still in 
short supply, particularly in the poorest regions. Although these programs exist, lack of funding and 
essential inputs make them fall short of actual needs, and fluctuations of supply follow availability of 
funding. Although levels of health service consumption depend on physical access barriers, the number of 
available medical staff per inhabitant are also partly responsible for such low utilization rates. This 
situation can be partly attributed to the unequal allocation of public funds. Niamey, Agadez and Diffa, the 
regions with the best overall health indicators, receive by far the largest amount of public funds per 
capita, even when the personnel cost for the central administration in Niamey is excluded. Again, 
although difficulties related to geographical accessibility to health facilities play an important role in the 
low utilization rates, these are also explained by the fact that many facilities are not fully operational 
because of the lack of minimum necessary personnel, equipment, drugs and supplies or all the three of 
them.  
 
(c) 
Inadequate financing of the sector
 : As most of the countries in West Africa, the health sector 
suffers from a chronic scarcity of financial resources. The weak capacity of the government to mobilize 
internal resources has been a major constraint, aggravated by the instability of external aid. Currently, 
public expenditures on health represent 1.9% of GDP and 7.20% of Government budget (Recurrent 
budget in 2004). With a per capita expenditure of US$8, the health sector in Niger is extremely under-
funded. This situation resulted in a significant decrease of expenditures on personnel (currently at 30% of 
the recurrent budget in 2004) and in serious imbalances between investment and recurrent budgets (33% 
of the budget for the investment and 67% for the recurrent budget in 2004).   
 
(d) 
Serious human resources development and management issues
 : One of the most urgent 
problems in the health system of Niger has been the sharp deficit of human resources, even if the physical 
infrastructure has been available. Human resources are inadequate both in terms of numbers (ratio of 
technical staff to population is far below the WHO standards) and distribution. The health workforce is 
operating under serious policy, financial, organizational, and managerial constraints, and, as a result, 
productivity, morale, and effectiveness are sub-optimal. The effective performance of personnel is 
hampered by a series of structural bottlenecks and imbalances in the health system. The geographical 
distribution of critical human resources is imbalanced between regions and cities, with the majority of 
trained providers preferring to work in urban areas (63%). For example, Niamey concentrates 33 percent 
of the total health staff with only 6 percent of the nation’s population. 
Page  3
(e) 
Insufficient capacity for adequate overall sector management 
:
As a result of institutional 
management weaknesses, basic health care facilities limit their activities to routine curative care, with no 
systematic planning of health promotion and disease prevention outreach activities (with the exception of 
vaccination campaigns). In addition, the implementation of vertical health programs for specific issues 
being managed outside the MoH, such as HIV/AIDS, has been accompanied by a lack of coordination 
among the different actors. The coordination between the MoH and the different technical and financial 
development partners (
Partenaires Techniques et Financiers
,
PTF) has been carried out on a bilateral 
basis. One of the major and generalized problems at all levels of the public health administration is its 
overall weak institutional management capacity.  
 
(f) 
Poor performance of priority public health programs
 : The leading causes of mortality for 
children under five are: measles, malaria, diarrhea, malnutrition and respiratory diseases. Malnutrition is 
very prevalent as well as tropical communicable and parasitic diseases. Failure to develop inter-sectoral 
strategies is also a major issue affecting health outcomes in Niger. Particular emphasis must be placed on 
the reproductive health program, given the very low modern contraceptive prevalence and the high 
maternal mortality ratio. Another emphasis will be put on other leading causes of mortality like Malaria, 
which remains a major public health problem in Niger due to its impact on mortality rates and its 
socioeconomic consequences on the population. According to baseline data collection carried out in 2002, 
it represents on average 30% of causes of morbidity and more than 52% of causes of death in children 
less than five year's old in health centers. On average 850,000 cases are recorded by the health system. 
The “verticalization” of programs leading to serious inefficiencies and to frequent absence of staff from 
the work place because of separate training sessions is also a major issue, which needs to be addressed.  
 
(g)  
Narrow focus of community participation
 : Community participation in Niger, as in many 
other African countries, emerged in the early 1980s focusing on getting the communities more involved 
into decisions on and management of their health, mainly primary care. To date, community participation 
has translated primarily into cost-recovery programs and little emphasis on making community health 
management committees able to play a more decisive role in the decision-making process at the health 
center level. But it is necessary to retain that the community participation system was reduced during 
recent years to the aspects related on the cost recovery and the management of drugs. This mechanism 
had important negative effects on the functionality of the health committees, their management and on 
their relationship with others actors (populations, nurses, etc.). 
 
B.  Rationale for Bank involvement
The proposed project objectives are in line with Niger’s latest Country Assistance Strategy -CAS- 
(January 21, 2003). The proposed project will respond to the CAS pillars for: (a) improvement in the 
access of the poor to quality social services, and (b) the strengthening of institutional and individual 
capacity within and outside Government. 
The Bank has supported Niger in promoting investments in the health sector. In the context of the Poverty 
Reduction Strategy (PRS), and as mentioned in the CAS, the Bank and the Government of Niger have 
together taken the decision to move forward, in the medium to long-term, towards a Poverty Reduction 
Strategy Credit (PRSC) approach as the main channel for resource transfer from the Bank. The 
Government sees the long history and credibility of the Bank in Niger as essential to continued progress 
on the health reform agenda. The International Development Association (IDA) will support the 
implementation of the NHDP (
Plan de Développement Sanitaire 2005-2009)
 with a focus on policy 
dialogue, areas of comparative advantage where IDA can best exercise its leverage, experience and 
expertise. In addition, the support of IDA will be flexible in order to be responsive to evolving 
opportunities and constraints throughout the Project's life.  
Page  4
This Project will be the third operation in the sector in Niger. The first project (Health Project, 1986-
1995; US$27.8 million, Credit 1668) supported the improvement of the health sector performance. The 
second project (Health Sector Development Project, US$40 million, Credit 2915) which closed in 
December 2003, contributed to the implementation of the NHDP (1994-2000).  Major achievements of 
these two projects have centered on the initiation of key sector reforms in the following areas: (a) 
establishing mechanisms for investment planning and cost recovery; (b) population, nutrition, maternal 
and child health care, and control of communicable diseases including inter alia malaria and diarrhea; (c) 
training of health personnel; (d) quality and coverage of basic health services, with a particular focus on 
establishing the district health system; and (e) availability and affordability of essential generic drugs 
through the restructuring and strengthening of the pharmaceutical sector. However, despite these efforts, 
the final outcome of these projects has been unsatisfactory, because, primarily, they failed to address in a 
serious manner structural issues such as institutional capacity and human resources. 
 
This new operation will be different from the two previous ones because it will place significant emphasis 
on strengthening MoH capacity at all levels of the health care system (which was never done previously 
and was identified as a key factor for failure in the sector). Moreover, it is unique because, for the first 
time, donors have agreed to work jointly, through a Sector-wide Approach (SWAp), for project 
preparation and implementation and to carry-out a joint annual review of sector performance and work 
plans (including expenditures and budget) which will be monitored by agreed upon performance 
indicators. This approach will rationalize investments (provide justification for interventions) and donor 
coordination, and maintain the focus on outcomes and results, in a context of poverty reduction. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project will support the government’s five-year National Health Development Plan (NHDP) for the 
period 2005-2009. The overall objective of the ISHSSP is to contribute in the reduction of maternal and 
child mortality while focusing efforts on reducing inequalities in health outcomes through improved 
resource management, higher quality and increased availability of health services and sector capacity. 
 
The proposed program will focus on addressing major institutional and organizational bottlenecks, which 
could prevent achievement of MDGs, and will support MoH’s effort in the implementation of the NHDP 
in the following specific areas : (a) strengthen the strategy of human resources management; (b) improve 
the essential drugs and medical supplies management strategy; (c) strengthen health program and improve 
the quality of services; (d) improve the demand and accessibility; (e) strengthen the governance and the 
institutional capacity; (f) ensure an adequate and equitable financing; (g) improve the community 
participation. 
 
The NHDP serves as a policy framework that covers the entirety of health-related activities in Niger. The 
details of the ISHSSP are expected to change from year to year as reflected in annual work programs and 
budgets that are developed by each level (or cost center), but would follow the policy framework of the 
MoH and the overall guidance of the NHDP and the financing plan 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The keys areas of the NHDP, where the program will focus its effort are as follows : 
 
Page  5
a) Strategic human resources management
.
Increase the number and quality, and optimize the 
distribution of human resources in health as well as modernize the HR management to improve the 
efficiency and equity of Niger’s health system. The program will focus on the priority staffing of existing 
health facilities at the peripheral levels (CS, CSI, DH) according to the new staff norms starting with the 
most disadvantaged areas in terms of poverty and proportion of inadequately staffed facilities; the 
modernization and the decentralization of the HR management to the regional level; and the establishment 
of a flexible remuneration system with zone-specific contracts based on performance which will allow for 
higher salaries in remote zones to attract personnel. Key actions envisaged under this pillar is to: (a) 
revise human resources norms; (b) implement incentive systems to encourage redeployment of personnel 
in remote areas and reward individual and or unit’s performance in achieving set objectives in their 
respective AWP; (c) develop and implement  career plans and effective human resources management 
tools; and (d) manage and implement training strategies both for basic and continuing education 
 
b) Strategic essential drugs and medical supplies management
.
Increase the availability of essential 
drugs and medical supplies in all public health facilities and avoid inventory shortages of a selected list 
with the most essential drugs. Key actions envisaged under the pillar are : (a) the overhaul of supply 
system by introducing competition, including international tenders; (b) the Introduction of new 
distribution practices, based on lessons learned from other experiences; (c) the prioritization and 
protection of budget allocations for essential drugs and supplies in the negotiations between the MoH and 
the Ministry of Economy and Finance; (d) the promotion of private sector participation in the distribution 
system, in particular in rural areas; (e) the reduction of opportunities for illicit drug market; and (f) the 
integration of traditional medicines into allopathic medical system.  
 
c) Health program strengthening and quality improvement
.
Strengthen the supply and improve the 
quality of most essential health services in order to reduce child and maternal mortality and ease the 
impact of communicable disease. Increase the effectiveness of essential reproductive health services – 
including maternal and child health care – in order to reduce the maternal and child mortality rates. 
Emphasis will be given to family planning (FP) activities, with special focus on birth-spacing and the 
avoidance of fistula. Increase the immunization coverage of children and women at reproductive age and 
keep the outbreak of epidemics under control in order to reduce mortality and morbidity due to avoidable 
diseases. This pillar will focus on: (a) implementation of efficient programs to address major causes of 
morbidity and mortality for children less than 5 years old; (b) implementation of a sound reproductive 
health strategy with emphasis on larger coverage of obstetrical needs in the rural areas while 
strengthening the referral systems and the provision of mechanisms to finance those referrals; (c) 
promotion of modern family planning methods; (d) development of communication and education 
programs aiming at behavioral change, adequate training and availability of personnel.. 
 
d) Improvement of demand and accessibility
.
Promote the demand and improve the geographical 
access to essential health services provided at the primary level in order to persuade households to 
increase their low levels of demand for these services and thus contribute to a better overall health status. 
The key actions envisaged under this pillar are to: (a) improve access of the poor to quality basic health 
services, not by expansion, but by promoting outreach strategies aimed at bringing services closer to 
needy populations; (b) revise the cost recovery policy and adoption of measures for exemption for the 
poor (exoneration, gratuity of some drugs/products such as contraceptives, etc.) 
 
e) Good Governance and institutional strengthening
.
Strengthen good governance and the institutional 
capacity of the MoH at all levels in order to ensure that it can effectively assume the responsibilities and 
tasks which have been newly defined in the framework of institutional reform. Particular emphasis will be 
given to promote the separation of functions and to promote MoH leadership to coordinate the multiple 
actors involved in the health sector and impulse the introduction of a sector-wide approach and a 
performance based management system. This pillar aims at: (a) improving capacity for policy 
Page  6
development and analysis, performance monitoring and evaluation; (b) clarifying a sectoral 
decentralization policy management system; (c) revising a district development policy and hospital 
reform; (d) reorganizing central, regional and district levels provision of services to strengthen personnel 
capacity and to insure an effective response to the implementation of health development plan; (e) 
rationalizing health investments according to a health map; (f) implementing an hospital reform taking in 
account the need to ensure an equitable access of poor people to services with quality of care; (g) 
strengthening the SNIS; and (h) strengthening the infrastructure and equipment management. 
 
f) Adequate and equitable financing
.
This pillar aims to ensure equitable access to a basic benefit 
package to the whole population by increasing government and donor financing, the development of a 
redistributive budget allocation mechanism in order to balance regional and District level disparities and 
the establishment of financial protection systems, including waivers and exemptions, equity funds, out of 
pocket payment caps and other financial solidarity mechanisms. These instruments may have different 
expressions in different regions according to need and context. Key actions envisaged are : (a) to review 
resource’s allocation criteria to ensure greater equity; adjustment of health financing mechanisms (cost 
recovery; implementation of mutuals; mobilization of collectivities - Local government); (b) to implement 
an MTEF aimed at giving priority to improving the functioning of existing health facilities before 
expanding the system and ensuring that the level of funding is adequate to reach intended objectives; (c) 
to implement an effective management tool for financial resources and equipment inventory; (d) to 
develop programs aimed at harmonizing financial management and procurement procedures; and (e) to 
work effectively under a budgetary decentralization management system including implementation of a 
performance-based management within all costs centers. 
 
g) Community Participation
.
Strengthen social participation and responsibility, in particular at 
community level, in order to administer resource mobilization strategies, improve responsiveness of the 
Niger health system, make this more accountable and promote community based health care. Key action 
envisaged are : (a) the creation of synergies between the community committees and the newly elected 
local councils; (b) the development of “marketing strategies” showing tangible results and benefits of 
community participation; (c) the systematization and the integration of the community health approaches 
developed by the different vertical programs, taking into account networks of community leaders and 
different community health agents. 
 
3. Safeguard policies  
OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment has been triggered by the project due to the potential negative 
environmental and social impacts that could result from unsafe medical waste management. To address 
these potential impacts, the Borrower has prepared a medical waste management plan (May 18, 2005) for 
the proposed project. The project's cost tables and institutional arrangements provide for the 
implementation of this plan. 
 
4. Tentative financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
28 
 Total 
28 
 
Page  7
5. Contact point 
 
Djibrilla Karamoko 
Title: Sr Health Spec. 
Tel: 5350+205 
Fax: 227 73 55 06 
Email: dkaramoko@worldbank.org 
Location: Niamey, Niger (IBRD) 
 
Dr Maryse B. Pierre-Louis 
Title: Lead HNP Specialist 
–
AFTH2 
Tel: 220 473 3329 
Fax: 220 473 8216 
Email : apierrelouis@worldbank.org 
Location : Washington DC 
 
