Document of
The World Bank
FOR oFFICIL USE ONLY
Report No. 8010
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1861-HO)
AUGUST 1, 1989
Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbouw World Bank authorization.



HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PLOM_OTION PROJECT (LOAN 1861-HO)
i                                          PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -     Lempira tL)
US$1.00         -     L  2.00
L 1.00          -     US$0.50
L 1,000,000     -     US$500,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       a    3.28 feet tft)
1 kilometer (km)  -    0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)   -    2.2 pounds (lbs)
ACRONYMS AND EQUIVALENTS
CONSUPLANE   -    Economic Planning Council
DGMH         -    General Directorate of )ines and Hydrocarbons
GOa          -    Honduran Government
MNR          -    Ministry of Natural Resources
OLADE        -    Latin American Energy Organization



T1! WOtLD SANK                 FOR OMCIA   S ONLY
Wash*Iton. D C. 20433
US.A.
Oce d D iwckw-Cmua
August 1, 1989
MDEORANDUW TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Honduras
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Proiect (Loan 1861-HO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Honduras - Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Loan
1861-SO)a prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.  No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
T'bi docum n t has a tod dftbutio  nd m rmy be uad by   1   omn   I tb e ouam
of their oikb dudea It coontet my c04 otbew be dmimssd  nkw WoS Bank _uxd



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLV
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1861-HO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pase No.
Preface   ...........................................                          i
Basic Data Sheets .............  .....ii
Highlights ........ .......................                                   iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Introduction ......   ..............1
II.  Project Identification, Preparation, and Objectives .                 2
III. Project Implementazion ..............................                 4
IV.  Performance of the Borrower ......         ...................        8
V.   Performance of Consultants 9........... ..... ..........              9
VI.  Performance of the Bank .. ... ........... .. ............. -' .     10
VII. Project Costs and Disbursements .11
VIII.Conclusions.                                                         11
Table Is Project Costs .. ...        .............   ......               13
ATTACHMENT 1
Comments from the Borrower ......................                 14
ATTACHMENT 2
Bank Reply to the Borrower .... .18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1861-HO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project ir. Honduras, for which Loan 1861-HO in the
amount of US$ 3.0 million was approved on MHy 29, 1980. The loan was closed
on December 31, 1985. US$ 0.2 million of the loan amount was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department II, Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondance between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR wmas sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached to
the Report (Attachment 1).



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1861-HO)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                Actual or
Item                       Expectation            Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)          3.7                     3.0
(Under)/Overrun (Z)                      -                       (18.5)
Loan Amount (USS million)                 3.0                      3.0
Disbursed                                 3.0                      2.8
Cancelled                                 -                        0.2
Date for Completion of Physical
Components                           06/83                     06/86
Economic Rate of Return (2)               n.a                     n.a
Financial Rate of Return                  n.a                     n.a
Institutional Performance          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
CUMUTL .TIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMEni'S
(US$ million)
As of June 30,                  1981   1982   1983   1984  1985  1986
(i)   Appraisal Estimate         1.8    2.3    2.8    3.0    3.0  3.0
(ii)  Actual                      -      -      0.1    1.4    2.5  2.8
(iii) (ii) as I of (i)            -      -      3.5   46.7   83.3 93.3
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan                         Actual
Government's Application                                             11/00/78
Preappraisal/Preparation                                             08/00/79
Appraisal                                                            01/00/80
Negotiations                                                         04/24/80
Board Approval                                                       05/29/80
Loan Agreement Date                                                  06/23/80
Effectiveness Date               10/01/80                            10103/80
Closing Date                     12/31/83                            12/31/85
Borrower                   Government of the Republic of Hondtras
Executing Agency           General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons
Fiscal Year of Borrower   January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Projects         None



iii
STAFF INPUT
(Staff-Weeks)
Bank FY      1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   Total
Preappraisal      8.0                                                  8.0
Appraisal        10.2                                                 10.2
Negotiations      6.2                                                  6.2
Supervision       0.8   13.2   10.2   15.3   17.3   17.6   12.3   86.7
Total         25.2   13.2   10.2   15.3   17.3   17.6   12.3  111.1
MISSION DATA
Month/    No. of      No. of                   rate of
Year      Weeks       Persons    Manweeks    Report
Identification        08/79       0.5           2             1.0     10/79
Appraisal              01/80       0.75          3            2.25    02180
Post-Appraisal I      02/80       0.5            2            1.0
Post-Appraisal II    04/80        1.0            1            1.0     04/80
Supervision I         07/80       0.5           2             1.0
Supervisiou II        11/80       1.5           3            4.5      12/80
Supervision III       01/81       0.75          3            2.25
Supervision IV        02/81       1.5           2            3.0      04/81
Supervision V         10/81       0.5           1             0.5     10/81
Supervision VI        03/82       0.5           2             1.0     04/82
Supervision VII       05/82       0.5           1             0.5     06/82
Supervision VIII      09/82       0.5           2             1.0     10/82
Supervision IX        10/82       0.5           3             1.5     11/82
Supervision X         12/82       0.25          2             0.5     01/83
Supervision XI        02/83       0.75          3            2.25    04/83
Supervision XII       05/83       0.25          1             0.25    06/83
Supervision XIII      06/83       0.25          1            0.25    07/83
Supervision XIV       10/83       0.25          1             0.25    10/83
Supervision XV        10/83       0.5           3             1.5     12/83
Supervision XVI       12/83       0.5           2             1.0     12/83
Supervision XVII      01/84       0.25          2             0.5     02/84
Supervision XVIII    10/84                      1                     10/84
Supervision X.'X      11/84       1.0           2             2.0     11/84
Supervision XX        12/84       0.5           2             1.0     02/85
Supervision XXI       03/85       0.75          1             0.75    04/85
Supervision XXII      05/85       0.75          1             0.75    06/85
Supervision XXIII    06/85        0.25          2            0.5      07/85
Supervision XXIV      08/63       0.25          1             0.25    09/85
Supervision XXV       09/85                     2                     10/85
Supervision XXVI      12/85       0.75          2             1.5     12/85
Supervision XXVII    03/86        0.5            4           2.0      03/86
Total                                                     34.75
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



iv
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1861-HO)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.       This was a typical petroleum exploration promotion project and
comprised petroleum sector related technical assistance, studies and
geophysical prospection. The objectives of the project were: (i) to assess
the country's petroleum geology and modernize petroleum legislation with a
view to promoting exploration by private oil companies; (ii) to strengthen
Government institutions in charge of petroleum affairs and energy in the
areas of petroleum technology, petroleum related accounting and auditing, and
energy planning.
2.       During implementation the loan closing date was extended by two
years due to delays in project implementation. The delays were caused mainly
by cumbersome and time consuming local procurement procedures, project
management weaknesses, and frequent staff changes at project executing
agencies. Total project costs were essentially the same as the appraisal
estimate. However, this does not offer a meaningful comparison, since the
scope of the project experienced significant reductions. A very small
portion of the loan (US$ 0.2 million) was cancelled at loan closing date.
3.       The project did not meet the goals established at appraisal.
Although a new petroleum law was promulgated, it fell short of the
requirements. The promotion effort failed to attract serious exploration
interest and investments. The results of the training program were also
disappointing since the trained staff have been replaced by others. With the
exception of the study related to petroleum accounting and auditing, sector
studies on petroleum pricing and taxation were not conducted, and no action
was initiated in these areas, due to the lack of interest and commitment on
the part of the Government.
4.       In retrospect, the design of the project could have been improved by
a better procurement preparation and provision of a project implementation
unit free of political interference. Also there was room for decisive Bank
action when it became apparent that the Government was uncommitted to the
objectives of the project and unwilling to abide by the rules and procedures
established for exploration promotion.



I
PROJEC7! COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EX"LORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1861-HO)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Honduraa has the second lowest per capita energy consumption in
Central America, although total use of energy in the country increased by
an average of seven percent annually during the 1970's. At the time of
project appraisal, commercially marketed energy represented about 60
percent of total energy consumption. Imported petroleum met about 80
percent of commercial energy requirements and hydropower the remaining 20
percent. By the late 1970's, in the face of increasing domestic demand for
energy and higher import prices for liquid fuels, the Honduran Government
(GOH) attempted to diversify and increase the supply of domestically
produced energy resources. In this context, greater emphasis was placed on
hydrocarbons and petr,leum exploration.
1.02     Prior to the project, as Honduras had no domestic petroleum
production, all of the crude oil for refining as well as various petroleum
products were imported, mainly form Aruba, where a mixture of crudes with a
base of Venezuelan oil was prepared to meet the requirements of the 16,000
barrels per day Texaco-owned refinery. As a result, petroleum imports
(crude and products) represented a growing burden on Honduras' balance of
payments. In 1980, petroleum imports accounted for approximately 13 percent
of total imports. The country's total oil import bill rose from about US$26
million in 1973 to approximately US$112.6 million in 1979, or about 15
percent of total merchandise exports. While it was predicted that gasoline
consumption would grow at a relatively slow rate, use of diesel and fuel
oil were expected to increase relatively rapidly. With expected increases
in international petroleum prices in the future, it was estimated that
Honduras' petroleum imports in 1985 would approach US$428 million.
1.03     By the late 1970's, the GOH began to attach high priority to the
discovery of domestic petroleum resources. Its most promising area, the
northeast offshore, had been only lightly explored, and the results of past
and then ongoing exploration efforts were inadequate to establish the
petroleum potential of the country. Moreover, a discovery of as little as
10,000-15,000 barrels per day would go far towards satisfying Honduras'
petroleum requirements. At the same time, the GOH did not wish to risk
scarce domestic financial resources in oil exploration. The GOH's plans,
therefore, were to pursue a policy of attracting international oil
companies to carry out further exploration, provided that on the basis of
previously acquired data sufficiently attractive prospects were presented
persuasively to potential bidders. The GOH recognized the need for such an
approach and, therefore, requested Bank assistance in helping the General
Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DGMH) within the Ministry of Natural
Resources (MNR) in compiling and interpreting existing geological and



2
geophysical information, preparing and administering the bidding and
negotiating with foreign companies and monitoring their work. It also
requelted assistance in establishing the basis for effective energy
planning.
IT. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND OBJECTIVES
2.01     This project was to support the GOH's efforts (1) to discover
petroleum by encouraging foreign oil companies to explore the most
promising on- and offshore areas of Honduras, and (2) to improve energy
sector planning. The immediate objectives of the project were to:
(a) strengthen the capacity of the DGMH in the areas of geology,
geophysics and other aspects of petroleum exploration, production
processing and transportation;
(b) assist the DGW4 In preparing itself for, and in carrying out, a
promotion of exploration areas to foreign companies;
(c) provide the DGMH with trained staff and technical capability to
monitor operating companies; and
(d) assist the GOH in priority aspects of e'nergy sector planning
through a petroleum pricing and taxation study and a review of studies on
alternative energy sources.
2.01     At appraisal, the project consisted ofs
(a)  Technical Assistance to the DGMH
The project was to provide a total of 108 man-months of
consultants to the DGMH. Geophysical consultants were to
assist in the organization of geophysical data and
related activities to facilitate information access and
analysis by the GOH and inte:ested oil companies. The
petroleum exploration consultants were tot i) organize
and interpret surface and subsurface infortation, ii)
undertake special studies where required, iii) assist
w,th preparation of evaluation reports  and bidding
documents on areds to be offered for exploration and
evaluation of proposals by oil companies, iv) assist in
the evaluation of proposals submitted by oil companies
and provide help in contract negotiations and monitoring
of company work commitments, v) train competent staff in
the foregoing activities, and vi) provide assistance in
oil accounting and auditing procedures and perform
specialized studies which might be required as a result
of the findings by the geological and other consultants.
Finally, the consultants and an international legal firm
would review the current petroleum law and provide
assistance in making necessary revisions to better



3
protect the interests of the country, while at the same
time providing adequate incentives to attract foreign oil
companies;
(b) Training
The project was to provide training for key management
personnel of the DGMH and its professional sraff in:
petroleum exploration techniques, laboratory procedures
and related activities, through seminars, on-the-job
training, and intensive courses abroad;
tc) Computer Processing
This component was to provide for processing of (i)
previously acquired seismic profiles in order to improve
offshore geologic interpretations and (ii) landsat remote
sensing imagery as well as transferring seismic lines
data on magnetic tapes;
td) Eauipment
The project was to provide office and laboratory
equipment and materials, including storage files for
geological data, technical books, magnetic tapes, special
copying machines for logs and profiles and a telex
machine; and
te) Sector Studies
Approximately 12 man-months of consultant assistance were
to be provided for two energy planning studies. The first
would review the then current petroleum pricing and
taxation situation, with a view towards advising the GOH
on policies in this area. The second was to review the
status of ongoing GOH studies on alternate energy
sources, with a view towards evaluating them on the
basis of comparative cost effectiveness.
2.02         The subject project was identified in August 1979 and was
appraised in January 1980. Negotiations took place on April 23-24, 1980. On
May 29, 1980, the Executive Directors approved a loan of US$3 milliont. The
loan was signed on June 23, 1980. The original Closing Date was December
31, 1983. This date was extended twice. The final Closing Date was December
31, 1985. Project costs, as presented in the combined President's and Staff
Appraisal Report, are shown on Table 1 of this report.



4
III. PROJECT LMPLEMENTATION
A. Prolect Initiation
3.01        After minor delays, loan effectiveness took place on October
3, 1980. Shortly thereafter, a Project Unit was established within the
DGMH. An approximately twco year delay occurred in the procurement
process,as a result of a number of problems. These included: an
unfamiliarity with Bank and GOH procurement regulations by officials
responsible for the project within the GOH agencies, repeated changes of
these officials for political reasons, cumbersome anproval processes for
awarding contracts (prior to signature), slow decision making by these
officials and lengthy negotiationa of proposed contracts. Further delays
were encountered after the consultant contracts were sigred, primarily
caused by the lengthy review and approval procedures by the Presidency and
the Congress, as required by Honduran law. The PGMH, a directorate of the
MNR, was tne principal executing agency, while the energy planning studies
were to be supervised by the Ministry of Economy (price/taxation) and the
Economic Planning Council (CONSUPLANE) (alternative energy sources). All
procurement was performed according to standard Bank guidelines.
B. !Poject Execution
Mi) Technical Assistance to DGMH
(a) Data Processing
3.02         The first subcomponent of the project was to allow for the
organization, compilation and interpretation of geological and geophysical
information as well as for the performance of related studies. On May 6,
1982, a contract was signed with the consultants to be responsible for the
above. The contract became effective in August of the same year.
3.03         The consultants made substantial progress and, as per
agreement, sub-contracted additional firms to perform studies deemed
essential for assessing Honduras' hydrocarbon potential, including various
studies which were not anticipated at appraisal. Studies performed
included: geochemicaL., radiometric, and offshore seismic studies. As a
result of the above studies, it became clear that significant errors in
previous surface geological mapping had been committed. Two additional
studies were performed: an aeromagnetic survey and the processing and
interpretation of selected offshore seismic data. These studies experienced
a delay of approximately three months due primarily to the failure of the
consultants to locate an insurance company willing to post a performance
bond, as required under the contract signed with the GOH.
3.04         Thnugh the initial work performed by this consultant firm
which was a subsidiary of a large oil company, was initially of
satisfactory quality, it must be noted that later (mid-1983) the firm moved
away from consulting as decided by its parent-company. To honor its
I



5
contract with the DGMH, this company maintained a reduced unit for work on
the project and employed independent consultants unforeseen at appraisal.
As the motivation and the number of qualified personnel of this comrany
diminished, it became necessary to negotiate with another firm (one that
worked in conjunction with the company which performed the aeromagnetic
survey) to organize three petroleum promotion seminars (and produce
relevant documentation) which were designed to attract foreign oil
companies and to offer Zor sale the technical materials produced under the
contract. Promotional presentations to the international oil industry were
offered in October 1985 in Houston, London and Tokyo. Though some interest
was shown by the major oil companies present, up to the present time no
contract for petroleum exploration has been signed.
3.05         Independent of the promotional process described above, an
exploration contract was signed in November 1985 by the GOH with a small
company, which has since forfeited its corporate charter as a result of its
failure to pay local taxes in Texas. The signature of this contract, which
involved prime, previously unexplored areas, raised concern on the part of
the Bank, as well as the major oil companies that had been invited to bid
for the exploration contracts because : a) the company's small size and
lack of sufficient resources to perform the exploration work as specified
under the contract should have disqualified it; b) the company did not
purchase the background documentation as required under the guidelines
established for bidding at the time of the promotional campaign; and
c) essential elements of any normal exploration contract, such as specific
technical commitments and GOH's right of approval regarding annual minimum
work obligation, were not covered under the scope of the contract. After
review, the Bank staff felt that the contract was an inadequate adaptation
of the Model Contract which, itself, was never finalized to the Bank's
satisfaction. All of these factors led the major oil companies, as well as
the Bank, to questio3 GOH's seriousness of purpose regarding petroleum
exploration. Representatives of several companies have cited this as an
important factor in their loss of interest in bidding for exploration
contracts; as mentioned above, no other contracts have as yet been signed
(Para 3.04). It should be noted that the Borrower attributes this lack of
enthusiasm to the drop in international oil prices.
(b) Legislative Review
3.06         The second major subcomponent was the review of the
legislative instruments of the Borrower for the petroleum sector and
preparation of a model contract and model bidding procedures, the purpose
of which being to better protect the interests of the country while at the
same time attracting foreign oil companies to participate in exploration
and production activities in Honduras. After some initial changes regarding
the procedures for contracting of a legal consultant, the contract with the
chosen firm was signed in October 1982. With the timely completion of the
proposed work in mind, the consultants began work prior to official GOH
approval.



6
3.07         By early-1983, the legal consultants completed a preliminary
review of the then-existing petroleum law and regulations and presented
drafts of the revised law and of a model concession contract. After review
by the GOB, the exploration consultants and the Bank, it was determined
that the draft law had to be simplified so as to effectively attract the
oil companies as desired. The legal firm agreed to v Ice any and all desired
changes, however, it stated that additional fees fo. its services would be
required, as well as payment of outstanding invoices. The DGMH indicated
that it was unwilling to review the contract amount re..ated to services
already covered by the terms of reference. Furthermore, the DGMH objected
to the firms invoices covering the period from December 1982 through
February 1983. In addition, the DGMH attributed non-payment of other
iuvoices to the failure of the firm to post performance bonds, as required
by local procurement regulations.
3.08         'While the dispute between the DGMH and the legal consultants
continued, the Latin American Energy Organization (OLADE) presented a new
version of the hydrocarbons law, which wai offered free of charge. OLADE's
assistance was sought by the DGMH in November 1982, one month after the
contract was signed with the legal consultants (Para 4.04). The OLADE draft
which placed great emphasis on protection of national interests and
provided inadequate assurances to potential explorers who would be
undertaking considerable risk, neither included the original legal
consultants'work nor previous Bank observations. However, after some
modifications, and amendments following the initial GOH approval, as
recommended by the Bank, the amended OLADE version was approved by the GOH.
The regulations and a model contract were drafted by a company sub-
contracted by the petroleum exploration consultants. by mid-1985. it was
determined that the legal framework established was adequate to permit
bidding and negotiations to proceed.
(c) Negotiation Procedures
3.09         The third subcomponent of the project consisted of the review
of the procedures for negotiation of oil concessions with oil companies and
monitoring their work. This study was was undertaken as planned. The
consultants alno prepared guidelines to facilitate negotiations with the
oil companies.
(d) Accounting and Auditing System
3.10         The final subcomponent was the establishment of a modern
petroleum accounting and auditing system for the DGMH. The contract with
the chosen consultants was signed and became effective September 13, 1982.
By mid-1983, the accounting consultants had prepared a complete petroleum
accounting menual and an auditing manual. After the DGMH and Bank review,
it was determined that the work presented was mainly directed towards the
activities of a national oil company, and that it was necessary for the
consultants to reorient their work towards a more simple set of procedures
that would allow the DGMH to monitor properly the exploration and possible
production activities to be conducted by private international oil



7
companies and establish only general guidelines for their auditing. The
consultants accepted the recommendations and performed the work at no extra
cost. It was also decided that the consultants would provide a minicomputer
program to allow for the monitoring of oil companies'activities. The
resulting work was of high quality. The consultants then presented one
seminar in Tegucigalpa regarding the two procedural manuals produced and
discussed their implementation. Despite the excellent work performed by the
accounting consultants, the desired accounting and auditing system was
never implemented, as it would appear that the DGMH lacked the qualified
staff Zo do so (Para 3.11). The Borrower attributed this failure to the
fact that only one seminar was offered, and this served only to review the
information presented in the manuals.
(ii) Training
3.11         This component consisted of the training of the DGMH staff in
the areas of: a) accounting and administration for the petroleum
exploration promotion program; b)petroleum exploration and petroleum
engineering procedures; c)geological explorations emphasizing geochemistry
and interpretation of data; d)basic introduction to the petroleum industry
for non-geologist professionals; and e)geology and geophysics, as applied
to petroleum exploration. All of the training needs identified at appraisal
were carried out, with the exception of the training abroad for an
economist and an accountant. Despite the in-depth training provided, the
DGMH benefited little, as a result of constant changes of personnel within
the organization. At this point, none of those trained under the project
remain in the DGMH. It is possible that for this reason, the programs
designed by the accounting consultants were never implemented.
(iii) Computer Processing and Equipment
3.12         Both of these components were completed as envisaged at
appraisal. The computer processing was performed successfully, including
the Landsat remote sensing. Nevertheless, after preliminary examination of
the material to be analyzed, it was determined that the scope of the this
component could be made more cost effective by limiting the data to be
reviewed, as determined by an initial assessment of the previously
collected information. The acquisition of an office and laboratory
equipment for the DGMH was also completed successfully.
(iv) Sector Studies
3.13         This component was to provide for the hiring of consultants to
perform: a) a study and evaluation of the Borrower's pricing and taxation
practices; and b) a study to review alternate energy sources for meeting
the Borrower's future needs in the energy field. Neither of the studies was
undertaken.
3.14         The pricing and taxation study was to be implemented by the'
Ministry of Economy. After long periods of procrastinatien on the part of
this government organization, it was decided that this study would not be
performed. The reason for the cancellation for this subcomponent was



8
apparently a lack of interest on the part of the executing agency.
3.15         The study of alternate energy sources was to be administered
by CONSUPLANE. Again, after going through the motions of procurement
througi mid-1985 and having already selecting a consultant firm to perform
the work in question, CONSUPLANE determined that the study was to be
cancelled. Although CONSUPLANE indicated that this study was no longer
necessary, as several similar studies to be performed, including one by
OLADE, the proposed terms of reference had been previously revised to
analyze the most viable options, and thus, to avoid overlap.
IV. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
l
4.01         At the time of project appraisal, the international oil market
I          was experiencing its second major boom in ten years. The price of oil was
high and there was every indication that it would continue to rise. It is
in this context that the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project was
undertaken. The GOH, as reflected by the Ministry of Natural Resources in
general and the DGMH specifically, placed high priority on the discovery of
petroleum resources and the development of petroleum production. By early-
1982, however, the price of petroleum on the world market fell. With it, it
would appear, fell the GOH's motivation to pursue the project's objectives.
The desire to reach the goals initially established under the project
seemed lost, as seen in the resultant actions of the government
organizations involved.
4.02         The the DGMH's performance, in whose hands the primary
responsibility of the project's success lay, deteriorated. As indicated in
paragraph 3.01, there occurred a delay of approximately two years in
implementing the project. Though the governmental procedures exacerbated
the situation, the primary cause for this was inefficiencies within both
the DGMH and the MNR, that included inexperienced officials, as well as
weak decision-making mechanisms. Frequent personnel changes within the two
organizations prevented the contact and training with more experienced and
knowledgeable consultants from having any major influence on the decisions
of the DGMH. Auditing procedures of the DGMH in particular also were
frequently cited by the Bank as a problem which hindered successful project
execution.
4.03         It would appear that GOH authorities actually undermined the
success af the project with its direct negotiations and eventual signing of
a exploration contract (by the Deputy General Attorney) with a firm that
was not well suited for handling such a contract. As a direct result of
this, as mentioned in paragraph 3.05, skepticism developed among the major
oil companies, as well as within the Bank. The Bank staff supervising the
project attempted to point out the problems within the contract itself, and
drafted a Memorandum of Understanding requiring the Minister of Natural
Resources' signature. The purpose of this was to ensure GOH compliance with
the originally established guidelines for negotiations. As signature of
this Memorandum was a requirement for a final extension of the closing



9
date, and as this was never signed by the Minister, no further extension
was granted.
4.04         The DGffH's performance with respect to the legislative
modifications outlined in the Loan Agreement was also of a less-than
satisfactory nature. While on one hand negotiating, and thereafter signing
a contract with the Legal consultants mentioned in paragraphs 3.06-3.08,
the DGMH was simultaneously negotiating with OLADE to perform the same work
at no cost. The Bank was only informed of this situation after the original
consultants presented their draft. Though explained to the Bank as another
resource, the negotiations with OLADE again bring into question the DGMH's
commitment to the work covered under the scope of the project. Regarding
the original consultant firm, the DGMH withheld payment of various invoices
presented by the law firm, attributing this to the firm's failure to post
the required guarantee, as well as the fact that the DGMH disputed several
of these.
V. PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS
5.01        As discussed in Section III of this report, there were three
major consultants responsible for the execution of this project. The first
was the firm to supervise the data processing and geological-geophysical
studies of the subcomponent for technical assistance to be provided to the
DGMH. This firm initially performed satisfactorily, both with its own
staff, and through the use of subcontracted consultants. As mentioned in
paragraph 3.04, the interest of this firm with respect to the project
appeared to diminish in mid-1983, as a result of corporate decisions of its
parent-company, and as a result, its performance deteriorated. The company
thereafter broke-away from its parent-company, and merged with two other
former subsidiaries.
5.02         The legal consultants contracted to amend the Petroleum Law
and regulations performed their duties in a manner that was not considered
satisfactory either by the DGMH or by the Bank, though there was some
thought within the Bank that the work performed did essentially remain
within the outline established by the terms of reference. 5he result of the
consultant firm's labors did not fit the needs of the DGMH in that it was
determined that the revised law remained too cumbersome. As the DGMH was
unwilling to agree to the consultants' request for additional funds, a
draft prepared by OLADE, free of charge, was adopted. As the consultants
never posted the required performance bond, the DGMH legally had no further
responsibility.
5.03         The consultants hired to design the Accounting and Auditing
System performed their responsibilities in both a timely and satisfactory
manner. Although it was also necessary to simplify the materials produced,
this was carried-out very successfully.
5.04         As the original consultants contracted to present the
promotion seminars were not adequately staffed to perform the work
required, a second consultant firm was hired to prepare a summary of the



10
work performed under the project, as well as to carry-out the subsequent
presentations. The work performed was considered of high quality by all
involved.
VI. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
6.01         The Bank's role in the project could have been improved in
several respects. First, as indicated in paragraph 3.03, additional studies
were required for successful analysis of the country's petroleum potential.
Though anticipation of most of these studies at appraisal would have been
difficult, it would have been possible to foresee some of these studies,
such as the aeromagnetic survey. Perhaps a more careful analysis at
appraisal would have led to more realistic cost figures. Supervision of the
project was adequate, however, the supervision reports tended to downplay
the problems and as a result led to a Bank view of the project that was
unrealistic. Though ratings of 'major problems" (3's) were listed
originally, supervision reports soon led to the impression that the project
was being more successfully executed than it actually was. The clearest
indication of this tendency was the ratings given to consultants
performance. Though there were serious problems involving the consultants,
ratings of "problem-free' (or 1's) are found throughout the supervision
reports.
6.02         Regarding the motivational factors within the GOH, and in
particular within the DGMH, the Bank might have been well advised to
reassess the potential for success of such a project, in light of the
changes that had occuried. In doing so, it is conceivable that the option
of loan cancellation should have been considered. If this option is
excluded, there remains no doubt that the Bank should have applied more
pressure to ensure a depoliticized project unit, and thus allow for a more
efficient use of Bank funds, especially under the training component. The
two studies under the control of the Ministry of the Economy and CONSUPLANE
should also been placed under the control of the project unit, so as to at
least ensure the same level of motivation for all aspects of the project,
as well as to allow for greater monitoring by Bank staff. The role played
by the Bank staff involved improved significantly towards the end of the
project. As the GOH's performance deteriorated after the presentations,
i.e. the signing of the contract with the exploration company with
insignificant funds to perform the work contracted, the Bank took firm
actions to give the GOH the opportunity to improve the trend of the
project. This was done by requiring a Memorandum of Understanding (Para
4.03) as well as an agreement on the part of the GOH to follow established
bidding standards, namely International Competitive Bidding. As the GOH
appeared unwilling to pursue the original objectives of the project, no
additional extension was granted and the project closed.



11
VII. PROJECT COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
7.01         As indicated in Table 1, the total estimated project cost of
US$3.7 million was higher than the actual cost of US$3.0 million. This
reduction in cost came as a result of the decision not to proceed with the
two sector studies envisaged at appraisal [(Para 2.01 td)], compoundted with
the slight reduction in scope of the Computer Processing component. The
act'sal cost for this component of US$295 thousand fell below the estimated
cost of US$490 thousand. The total cost of the largest component, namely
the technical assistance to DGMH, was US$2.5 million, slightly below the
US$2.7 million estimated cost. As discussed in paragraph 3.03, additional
expenditures were required for this component. However, costs were covered
by the funds unallocated at appraisal. All other components remained within
the cost levels established at appraisal, though some minor differences did
occur.
7.02         Total Bank disbursements were US$2.8 million, as compared with
the estimated total of US$3.0 million. Again, the difference between the
two figures can be attributed to the factors indicated above. The remaining
US$200,000 was cancelled. It must be noted that neither the Bank cost nor
disbursement figures coincide with those of the Borrower's.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
8.01         The project was initially well designed. The project goals
were clearly defined, and indeed, it would appear that these were
appropriate for the conditions of the country at the time. The project had
serious problems initially with procurement, and it would perhaps have been
advisable for the Bank to have sought agreement on these matters during
project preparation and pcoject negotiations. Nevertheless, once initiated,
the project appeared to be moving in the right direction. Consultants were
hired and the goals remained in sight. Within a short time, however, the
situation changed. The price of oil fell, and with it, the perceived need
by the GOH to promote petroleum exploration. Furthermore, political changes
made within the organizations involved served to counteract the effects of
the training component which was indeed essential for successful project
implementation.
8.02         In reviewing the original objectives of the project, as listed
in paragraph 2.01, it would appear that the Petroleum Exploration Promotiot.
Project did not meet the goals outlined at appraisal. Closer monitoring by
the Bank staff would have indicited this and led thc Bank to change its
plan of action. This project indicates that through supervision, trends of
project implementation must be taken into account wher. Bank decisions are
taken. Furthermore, the Bank should not simply observe without providing
insight to the Borrower regarding the direction of the project, and ir,
turn, progress in achieving the goals set forth at appraisal. When it is



12
evident that the Project has indeed strayed from its chosen course, serious
consideration must be given to the change in scope of the project.



13
Tablo I
Project Cos
Estimated Cost  /1                        Actual Coots /2
percentage
Cemponats                     LocaI    Foreign         Total           Local      Foreign       Total     Dlftfronce
1. Techniel Assistance       63.0       2,e97.9     2,0S.             17n.o     2,825.0      2,6U2.0          -6.91
to ODM
2. Training                    2t.0         J5.9        6J.0             0.0        68.0         63.0           6.0S
8. Computer Processing            a          692       592.0               a          296       295.9         -U1.21
4. Enuipmsnt                   87.        1M0.0        167.0             0.6        116.0       116.0         -89.51
5. Sector Studie               25.0        14*.0       171.0             9.0         6.0          9.0        -100.01
TTAL                       e60.0      $,eo     60. 0 am.e           177.0     2,700.J      2,976.0         -18.53
/I Prices Includo contingencIn.
/2 Differences exist between flnk and Borrover cot figures.



14
ANNEX 1
rage i of 4
CONMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
(Unofficial Translation)
SECRETARIAT OF                                   General Directorate of
NATURAL                                          Mines and Hidrocarbons
RESOURCES
June 7, 1989
Mr. Ricardo Halperin
Division Chief of Operations of
Infrastructure and Energy
World ~-nk, 1818 H St., N.W.
Washi.., n D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Halperin:
In reference to the Project Completion Report for the Petroleum Exploration
Project (Loan 1861-HO), received on May 19 of this year, we forward the
following comments:
1.     We do not agree that the lack of enthusiasm of the oil companies to
invest in our country was partially or totally due to the oil exploration
contract subscribed betweer the Government of Honduras and the Hond-Tex,
since as you would understand, the ±.veL of international investments were
substantially reduced because of the fall of oil prices. This comment
refers to your assertions mentioned in paragraph 3.05 of the document.
2.     With respect to the preparation of a Hidrocarbon Law, although it is
true that OLADE prepared it for the Government of Honduras as a cooperation
of that International Organization, it is also true that Robertson
Resources Company went ahead and prepared a draft of the Law of
Hidrocarbons when the Goverrnment of Honduras was only having conversations
with that firm for a possible agreement on preparing that doeiment; this
comment refers to paragraphs 3.06, 3.07, 3.08 and 4.04.
3.     According to paragraphs 3.10 and 5.03 regarding the accounting and
auditing system contemplated in two manuals, we want to express that the
seminar carried out by the auditing firm Price Waterhouse was only a
presentation of the material without proper preparation of the personnel
that received L., since the seminar took place only on June 15, 1983, when
it should have lasted at least a week, considering that the cost of the
material was US$ 57,300.00.



15
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
4.     You mention in paragraph 5.02 that the Law was eventually completed
by OLADE which makes us think that in your opinion Robertson Resources
Company prepared the basic document, considering this argument false.
5.     Finally point 7 (7.01) related to the disbursements of the Project,
shows a dieaggregation of estimated and updated costs which differs from
those reported to you in our report of July, 1987 for which we attach a
copy of a financial table reflecting those differences.
Sincerely,
JOSE M. LANZA VALLE
Director General



TA.    A        16          DIICON GENItALDE
!IEbI IksKt~LUO~                                                ?& 8 e  7INAS X    2OAnuIos
II Wt *                                                                        ApToA     1
IN~~~J URALES ~~~Apwtado Po"ta 981    Pa~ge3 of 4
7 de JWAO, 1989
Jofe DlvIisln as O   mues Xe
ZnfmeuxItway vwgy1
1nw  Mmdal, 2l618 Ii   str_t. N.W.
I Dsh1zWta, D.C. 2043
U.S.A.
Satnmsdo SWSor Uulpwrnt
Pwafwte a3. Thfom de ?.?mimoian del P:qyeto psra la E,p1ora-
Cidi PsttzlWo3 (frtdatWW 1061-Ha)) reolbido c f.c)hm 19 de ieyo
&Ii car±ffts mao, is zuuttlurj 3g  stguletes onwrmta1s:
1. No statn de acimdp an que la falta de uiwian:'x de Us.
CCU  Mms p.tzo1uma p.m  lnvinrtr 4n maasto pate. me Gmba nl
pmzcla nl tota3u'wtst  aml trato de melaracl& p.tZolWra U3
crito intre el. Ob1Wn de ImWkuu y j. cim%=Ua Hkm84ui, ya,
qu ~utU8 ItWSqua a rA1v*1 tntemw1afml I"# ljwWmlu
-t ZKUdiJew   -    r1    pm 3a d±in1nbmLn in las pz'.iom
Gal P*t*01. 31 sntmwh oammnt,zo so zuf twa, a wu asSvara-
cloms nclonsisu an nvmr1 3.05 dml Gomminto.
2. Mopmct  a la e1daczo&i 4. Ia Ley deB4oor~v el bion
- cat qu la MAXZ la eiab=6 PMr el aDWrno do Ibdwms
-CE VWm aosMCI&i do ase Oquw4sD Zmziic, tsdAdt'
clwr~o quo 1i Ompafia WA rm m bU~Pmwos as adel*nth in p
ye=u el borraidbr di  la y d  4. Uiuornoz cuwvlo el Gablewo
de aiamhms Nw*Ltm     uncmhnwte pIhtAos am sea   mg Itat1zt
pma un pasMeb1 aumd  mi zudmctr Gdich doin Ls m    *at& cr-
tez±e, - eflus m a o ap.doaf in ie mumrmle 3.06, 3.07t3.08
y 4.04.
3. sqgd lUm icaIes 3.O y- 5.03 twfmt. al. slsumw de wtab±-
114.8 y auh1torl.mamsa3    on do iwnsuien is uwsnLf.staws'
qmu el uunlnmd.o Inar In. rareppet wn ?euapar la fir
- AnUttoa fr1m Mt.Im   no fug me quo wam ptu C de~Gl
umt.ria fin pepzur &do1duna*  mI pwumsma qua 3o zwsoi.1ya
Olkbm V,blglW eedWWiW UaWsAuM Sw,iWasVe, V. C.. WOR4UWUI C. A.
Cowaim inmus m UUW. . &-m. U94Y. U4Ui
Tdg. aMUM^ Vt - - Apwt eTold -
RECEIVED FROM      50432784?



,.  17
T-wtas-ml               -
A?floXPage 4 of 4
quo m1wIto  . lzpwtA6 .4 1 La 15 o jmo de 1983, Ciad
Dt  }hlo apw.cmon pw lo in wo   uwa, tuDo en cai-
a     1 wto del ad til wW   Ad U.5.$.57.300.00.
4. Utn micn   an _I juiaf o 5.02 qua la Jay twm
e  1utmd  aurs 01A  Jo 1 su baa rw  qu e u CQ1n
la 0y.f1  J_ua   Suam  mdm6 .1  u               o 4oe. canal-
dezwo falilo _hta quian_to.
5. FrnaUant el pmto 7 (7.01) an  cdah  a lam GamUw         Ga
PrE,WW* mntza un Xntva  de In  mutos y uW casto a-ctuMU
zado uo0 dmaglos  itm a' varam auram los zGrt*o  a
*uatesa n mr tro iifcaue de Jaulo de 97, 01 cal ajwi_
una copla den Wi dM110 f1r.nuier qua zrfef  a Iam dl     &0*~s
Sin otro pmztlular, a.   grato suslbl.u   de utMm.
00m0 '.0ain.ain 260~  8MEM., ?piOMPiuL IL  3~Ume  Co A.
-lms im        Sam w_       _                            - U
wwm WOAa a e- A m
------------  _,   .



18
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
BANK REPLY TO THE BORROWER
(Unofficial Translation)
June 14, 1989
Ing. Jose Lanza Valle
Director General
General Directorate of
Mines and Hidrocarbons
P.O. Box 981
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras, C.A.
RE: Loan 1861 HO-Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project-
Your comments of June 7, 1989 about our Completion Report
Dear Ingeniero Lanza Valle:
We are pleased to acknowledge receipt of your commen.s about the
referenced report which were received on June 9, 1989. In paragraph number
2 of that letter, you indicate that the firm Robertson Resources prepared a
draft project of the Hidrocarbons Law (without having a signed contract
for the work). However, According to the information that the Bank has,
and to the "Final Report to the World Bank on the Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Project' of July 1987 prepared by the DGMH, it was the firm
Coudert Bros. the one that prepared the above mentioned draft. Bank files
do not contain any documentation mentioning the participation of Robertson
Resources in this work. If you have that documentation, please let us know
to clarify this point.
In paragraph 4 of your comments, you mention that our report
implies that OLADE's work was based in the work of Robertson Resources. As
I have previously indicated, we have no work presented by that company. We
have only work submitted by Coudert Bros. However, as we indicated in
paragraph 3.08 of our report, OLADE's draft did not include the comments of
the previously mentioned consultants nor those of the Bank.
If you have the documentation referred to in the first paragraph,
please let us know before June 19 at the latest. It we do not get any
communication from you by that date, we will understand that there was a
mistake and that the information contained in the DGMH report and the
Bank's files are correct.
Sincerely,
Ricardo Halperin
Division Chief of Operations of
Infrastructure and Energy
Department II
Regional Office of Latin America and the Caribbean



19                                ANNEX 2
Paxe 2 of 3
The World Bank                                 unH NS"NW.   am 4T1234
OnSVMUNAcLSAWFm pfoR RomnIIRuCONANDfflWMENW   WuW*%o^ D.C M= Cb M            NWRAD
Ml MMA1OtLDEVELO4E9ffMSOoAnloN              - US9A             CIb Addrss NEVAS
14 de juni0 do 1989
Ing. JoSe Lanz Valle
Director Ceneral
Diroccldn General de
Minas e U drocarburos
Apartado Postal 981
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
londuras, C.A.
Ref. Prestamo 1861 HO-Projecto Para la Pramocifn de la Exploraci6n
Petrolora- Sn  comentarios del dia 7 do junio 1989 sobre
nuestro Inform. de Termanacifn
Zestaido Ingenioro Lanza Valles
Nos so grato acusar recibo de sue comentarios sobre *1 informe de
referencia recibidos el 9 do junio de 1989. EQ el pdrrafo admero 2 de
dicha carta, ustod indica quo la compaftia Robertson Resources preparO un
borrador de proyecto de ley de bidrocarburos (sin tener contrato fixuado
por el trabajo). Sin embargo, seg6n la Informncifn quo tione *1 Banco, y
segfin el 'Informe Final *I Banco Mundial Sobre Proy cto de Promocifn a la
Exploraci6n Petrolera' de julio 1987 preparado por 1 DemB. fud la fiua
Coudert Bros. quo llevo a cabo la elaboraci6n de" borrador awucionado. El
archivo del Banco no contiene ningfna doc1uantacln quo mencione
participacifn de Robertson Resources en e*te trabajo. S1 usted dispone de
tal documentoci6n, por favor comunlquenoslo parc aclarar este punto.
Zn *1 pdrrcfo auduro 4 do sue comentarios, anted dice que nuestro
infonme  plica quo e1 trabajo de OLUDE fud basado en un trabajo do
Robertson Resources. Como lndiqud auteriormente, no tcenmos ning6n trabajo
presentado por *es compafia.  Sunmos solamente un trabajo entregado por el
Coudert Bros.  Sin embargo, cco lndicmos en e1 pirrafo 3.0S  de westro
Informs, el borrador de OLADE so IncIuy6 comentarios al do los consultoreos
mencionados anterlontmte na del Banco.
T4Uin5sQ<Wa514



20
AN=X 2
Page 3 of 3
Si usted dispone de la documentaciln de referencia en el primer
p6rrafo, por favor dejenos saber antes del 19 de junto a mis tardar. Si no
recibimos comunicacifn suya para esa fecha, entenderemos que ha habido un
error en el nombre de la firma consultora, y que la informacifn provista
por el informe de la DGMH y de los archivos del Banco es correct. Sin otro
particualar, le saludo atentamente.
OmiRicrdoHalper
Jeft Divisifn de Oper iones de
Infraestuctura y Energia
Departamento II
Oficina Regional de America Latina y el Caribe



