Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4-Al J 1 - a/s
Report No. P-2743-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
May 6, 1980
This document hus a restricted disribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank anthorization. |



HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Lempira (L)
US$1.00         =    L 2.00
L 1,000,000     =    US$500,000
UNITS AND MEASURES
BD          -  Barrels daily
GWh         -  Gigawatt-hour =    1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
Ha          -  Hectare             2.47 acres
Km          -  Kilometer      =    0.621 miles
MW          -  Megawatt       =    1,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI       -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CIDA        -   Canadian International Development Agency
COHDEFOR    -   Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal
(Honduran Forestry Development Corporation)
CONADI      -   Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones
(National Investment Corporation)
CONSUPLANE  -   Consejo Superior de Planificacion Economica
(Economic Planning Council)
DGMH        -   Direccion General de Minas e Hidrocarburos
(General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons)
ECAISA      -   Empresa Centroamericana S. A.
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
OECD        -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OPEC        -   Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -   US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Honduras
Amount:                      US$3.0 million equivalent
Terms:                       Twenty years, including 5 years of grace,
at 8.25 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:         The project is designed to assist the Government's
efforts to find a domestic supply of petroleum
by encouraging foreign companies to explore and
carry out the high risk investments, strengthening
the Government's capability to negotiate and
supervise exploration contracts, and to improve
its energy planning. The project comprises
(1) technical assistance in organization and
interpretation of previously acquired exploration
data, preparation of evaluation reports and bidding
documents on areas to be offered for exploration,
evaluation of proposals by oil companies, contract
negotiations, monitoring of oil companies' explora-
tion activities, oil accounting and auditing,
revision of the current petroleum legislation, and
preparation of specialized studies as required,
(2) training for staff of the General Directorate
of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DGMH), (3) computer
processing of data, (4) equipment and materials
for DGMH, and (5) consultants' services to review
the country's petroleum pricing and taxation system
and the status of ongoing studies of alternate
energy sources. The main risk associated with
the project is that exploration data, once compiled
and interpreted, may not identify sufficiently
attractive prospects to attract oil companies to
invest in exploration.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                US$ thousands equivalent
Local      Foreign        Total
Consulting services for oil
exploration promotion                 420         1,590         2,010
Equipment and materials purchase         30           110           140
Computer processing                       -           490           490
Energy planning studies                  20           120           140
Training                                 20            30            50
Specialized studies                      30           150           180
Basic Cost Total                   520         2,490         3,010
Physical contingencies                   52           250           302
Price contingencies                      78           260           338
Total Contingencies                130           510           640
Total Project Cost                      650         3,000         3,650
Financing Plan:
US$ thousands equivalent
Local      Foreign       Total
Government                     650             -         650
Bank                             -        3,000        3,000
Total                          650        3,000        3,650
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                       1981         1982        1983      1984
Annual                       1,800          500         500       200
Cumulative                   1,800       2,300        2,800    3,000
Rate of Return:           Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  None.  This is a combined President's and Staff
Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Government of Honduras for the equivalent of US$3.0 million for
the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Honduras" (1856-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 24, 1978. Bank missions visited Honduras during January and
November 1979 to review recent economic performance. The main findings of
these missions are summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only one
percent a year. Honduras' per capita GNP in 1978, US$480, is one of the
lowest in the Western Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is also evident from
a variety of indicators. Malnutrition is severe: about three quarters of
pre-school children are believed to suffer from protein and caloric defi-
ciencies, and infant mortality is estimated at 103 per thousand live births.
It is estimated that roughly 54 percent of the population has no access to
safe piped water and about 76 percent lives without any form of sanitary
waste disposal. Furthermore, these are country averages which conceal
substantial regional disparities as living conditions in the rural areas,
which account for two thirds of the population, are much worse than in
the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance during 1950-75
was the continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of
a few agricultural commodities, especially bananas and coffee, whose prices
depend on a fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly
influenced by weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated
when extensive destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in
1974 reduced the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one half the
level of 1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3
percent. A serious lack of basic infrastructure, uneven land distribution,
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on the economy
in the President's Report for the Second Agricultural Credit Project
(P-2757-HO) dated March 28, 1980.



- 2 -
and deficient credit, technical services, and development programs kept non-
banana agricultural growth far below its potential. Furthermore, the country's
sizeable forest resources were subject to wasteful exploitation practices,
widespread burning, and uncertain ownership. In addition, the mountainous
topography of the country has made the expansion of the road network slow and
costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, including the establish-
ment of a basic transportation network connecting the main population centers
and a considerable expansion of electric power service.
Government Development Efforts
5.        Since 1972, development efforts have accelerated; several measures
have laid the basis for the country's improved longer-term economic prospects.
A land reform program, begun in 1972, and strengthened and expanded through
comprehensive legislation in 1975, aims at greatly improving land utilization
as well as increasing the income and employment of the poorer peasants through
the transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the nationaliza-
tion of timber rights in 1974. A new forestry law established guidelines for
private sector forestry participation and created the state-owned Honduran
Forestry Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). In the same year, the Government
established the National Investment Corporation (CONADI), to promote and
finance industrial projects. Furthermore, improvements in Government planning
and executing capacity resulted in a substantial increase in public fixed
investment from an average 4.9 percent of GDP in 1968-72 to 6.6 percent in
1974, and 10.1 percent in 1978. The Government has also made an effort to
increase investment in the social and productive sectors and strengthen public
finances through tax reforms and better tax administration. A 1975 tax reform
made the tax on coffee exports ad valorem, with marginal rates ranging from 10
percent to 20 percent depending on coffee prices; substituted a 3 percent
value added tax for the sales tax; and raised the tax rates on beer, cigarettes
and liquor. Partly as a result, current Central Government receipts increased
from 13.2 percent of GDP in 1970 to 15.3 percent in 1978.
Recent Developments
6.        During 1974-75, the Honduran economy was adversely affected by one
of the worst hurricanes in its history, by the oil price rise of 1974,
and later on by the OECD recession. GDP remained almost stagnant, severe
balance of payments difficulties arose, and the country's savings capacity
was seriously reduced. Honduras, however, recovered during 1976-78. A
much higher level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production, the extraordinary increase of coffee prices (which doubled in
1976 and again in 1977), and dynamic private fixed investment (7.4 percent
real increase yearly) were the major factors responsible. Real GDP grew
at about 7.4 percent a year, or almost double the long-term growth rate
recorded during 1950-75. The rate of inflation reached 6.4 percent a year,
mostly fueled by imported inflation and domestic difficulties with basic
grain crops.
7.        Although merchandise exports grew 27 percent a year in dollar
terms during 1976-78 as a result of higher coffee prices and the partial



- 3 -
recovery of banana production, imports grew at a 20 percent rate and the
balance of payments continued to show large current account deficits.
Expansionary policies which led to the more rapid economic and investment
growth had an immediate effect on imports into the small economy. Net
foreign exchange reserves, however, increased as a result of greater
disbursements of foreign loans, and by the end of 1978 were US$135 million,
equivalent to about two months of imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        Central Government finances during 1976-78 reflected the economic
performance. Current revenues increased rapidly (21 percent yearly) but
current expenditures grew almost equally fast and current savings showed only
a modest improvement. As a result, the large increment in capital expendi-
tures was largely financed by foreign credits. The increase in Central
Government current revenues between 1975 and 1978 resulted from higher income
and property tax collections; almost a tripling of export and import tax
revenues (including an increase of coffee taxes from US$4 million in 1975 to
US$32 million in 1978); and a rapid increase in receipts from domestic taxes.
Current expenditures for wages, goods and services, and transfers showed large
percentage increases. Higher wage expenditures resulted from expanded employ-
ment (7 percent annually) and higher nominal wages (about 9 percent annually).
About 57 percent of the new posts created were teaching positions. The
Government expanded significantly operating expenditures for education, health,
and defense. Budgeted expenditures for education increased by 81 percent from
1975 to 1978; health expenditures doubled; and defense expenditures increased
by 80 percent.
9.        In 1979, the Honduran economy continued its much improved growth
performance. Real GDP growth is estimated at about 6.5 percent owing mainly to
larger export volumes than in 1978 and increased public expenditures. GDY,
however, increased little because the terms of trade deteriorated by about
13 percent. In spite of larger export volumes of coffee (15 percent) and
bananas (26 percent), lower coffee prices slowed export earnings growth and,
coupled with rapidly rising import prices, resulted in a sharp decline in the
terms of trade. The annual average rate of inflation accelerated to about
8.8 percent, mostly because of imported inflation and higher domestic prices
for housing and food products, partly related to the influx of Nicaraguan
refugees. Towards the end of the year, however, inflation accelerated to an
annual rate of 19 percent. The current account deficit of the balance of
payments increased from US$154 million in 1978 to about US$183 million in
1979 as exports of goods grew 20 percent and imports (CIF) 18 percent,
fueled by higher import prices and the expansion of economic activity.
While Central Government current revenues grew rapidly, they were neverthe-
less outpaced by current expenditures; as a result, current savings declined
from 1.1 percent of GDP in 1978 to 0.5 percent of GDP in 1979. Public fixed
investment is estimated at about 9.9 percent of GDP, a slight decrease with
respect to 1978.
Future Prospects and Development Programs
10.       Real GDP growth, while expected to remain well above historic levels,
is likely to be less than in 1977-79, and to average about 5.6 percent a year
during 1980-83. The main reason for the deceleration is the expected lower
export growth. Exports (in constant prices) may increase by about 7.0 percent



a year, compared to 17.2 percent in 1978-79, since banana production has
already recovered significantly and coffee production is completing a cyclical
peak in the 1979/80 harvest. Further output expansion will be slower than in
the recent past. Export growth would depend mainly on lumber exports (made
possible by the expansion of sawmill capacity now underway) together with
increased beef and sugar production, expansion of fruit and vegetable produc-
tion for export, and promotion of tourism. However, the prospects for export
expansion within Central America have been affected by the political unrest
in the region. A slower growth of the quantum of total exports coupled with
higher levels of imports, partly fueled by rising public investment, will
likely result in continued moderately high deficits in the current account of
the balance of payments during 1980-83. Private investment is expected to
show less dynamism, as CONADI's support for large private projects may have
peaked since most of its existing projects are being completed and few signif-
icant new projects have been identified. Within certain parameters dictated
by the public sector's revenue and indebtedness capability, public expenditures,
both current and capital, may be a positive factor for GDP growth. Real current
expenditures are expected to increase at rates slightly above those of GDP,
although some restraint is needed to insure adequate public savings. Real
public investment is expected to average about 10-11 percent of GDP during
1980-83.
11.       The public investment program for 1980-83 calls for large invest-
ments to alleviate the most significant bottlenecks to the country's develop-
ment process and expand productive activities. The program includes investments
for infrastructure, particularly for power and transport; for export diversifi-
cation, mainly through forestry development; for agricultural development to
advance the agrarian reform program and increase rural productivity; and for
health, particularly potable water. Full implementation of this program is
not likely because of limitations in administrative capacity to prepare and
implement projects, particularly in the rural and social sectors. Neverthe-
less, the public sector's administrative capacity to prepare and execute
projects has shown a marked improvement in the past few years. This is
reflected in the doubling of the share of public investment in GDP since the
early 1970's and has made it reasonable to expect that the major components
of the program, some of which have been under preparation for a number of
years, will be implemented in a relatively timely manner.
12.       Power investments will be the largest of the proposed program,
averaging about 40 percent of public fixed investment, mostly because of the
large, lumpy investment required for the El Cajon hydroelectric project. This
high share is justified in view of the need to provide adequate power supply
to industry and other expanding sectors of an economy expected to grow at a
higher long term rate than in the past. It should be noted that per capita
generation of electricity in Honduras is currently very low (the second lowest
in Central America). Moreover, development of the country's hydroelectric
resources could make an important contribution to reducing the economy's
dependence on imported oil. Expenditures on imported oil and lubricants were
US$76.3 million (10.7 percent of the merchandise import bill) in 1978 and
increased dramatically to US$113 million (13.4 percent of merchandise imports)
in 1979 compared to only US$14.7 million (6.6 percent of merchandise imports)
in 1970. During 1970-79, Honduras' fuel needs for electricity generation grew
from about US$1 million to about US$5.8 million. Rising prices and the



- 5 -
expanded domestic demand would bring about a much larger bill for imported
oil in the future. Clearly Honduras has to pursue a policy to minimize the
negative balance of payments impact of its dependence on foreign energy
sources. The El Cajon project will contribute significantly toward this goal
in the 1980s. Honduras, however, has to continue looking for other sources of
energy. Petroleum exploration, if successful, could represent an important
additional step toward energy independence and a significant strengthening of
the country's balance of payments.
13.       Transport investments will also be large, and include the roads for
the Olancho sawmills, further rural roads, the expansion of the trunk highway
system, and a new port for wood product exports. Forestry investments planned
by COHDEFOR and the Industrial Forestry Corporation of Olancho (CORFINO)
include five relatively large sawmills. Agricultural investments will be
focused on rural development projects for three major valleys: Aguan, Guayape,
and Comayagua. Health investments will be concentrated on water supply and
medical facilities for Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and provincial towns.
These fixed investments will be supplemented by growing credit programs for
agriculture and industry.
14.       The Government has declared its intention to mobilize additional
domestic resources needed to support prudently its ambitious development program.
For this purpose, it has already implemented a tax package which will increase
revenues of the Central Government by about 1.6 percent of GDP in 1980. Other
measures are expected to include a reduction of annual current expenditure
growth from 22 percent in 1976-78 to 17 percent in 1979 and 14.5 percent
thereafter; higher tariffs for public enterprises, particularly electricity
and port tariffs; and, if necessary, further reforms of the tax system. In
addition, the Government has established ceilings for total public fixed
investment (about 11 percent of GDP). To avoid excessive pressures on the
balance of payments and the domestic price level, the Government is also
expected to increase credit only slightly faster than nominal GDP. Interest
rates were raised to keep them in line with external market conditions and to
stimulate savings deposits. Based on its development program, the Government
earlier this year negotiated with the IMF a loan package totalling about
US$75 million (of which US$57 million is from the Extended Fund Facility).
The three-year EFF arrangement provides Fund resources in support of sound
overall economic and financial policies during the implementation of the
public investment program; the latter should strengthen substantially the
balance of payments in the mid-1980s by reducing significantly the fuel import
requirement of the economy and by generating increased exports, particularly
lumber and wood products. However, given the present and foreseeable poverty
of the country, even with the above measures, Honduras needs external assistance
in excess of the foreign exchange component of development projects suitable
for international finance to enable the Government to implement its public
investment program. The large size of this program, the political uncertainty
now prevailing in the Central American region, and past volatility in Honduras'
export receipts have led the authorities to agree with the Bank on annual
reviews of the investment program and its financing prospects. We plan to
continue monitoring closely Honduras' progress.



-6-
External Financing
15.       As the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports
related to the public investment program, the current account deficit is
expected to increase to about US$329 million by 1983 (about 9.7 percent of
GDP) and, as a result, large capital inflows will be required. The bulk of
the external financing requirements is expected to be met through public
borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated gross capital inflow of
US$1.1 billion during 1980-83, of which over US$360 million will be disbursed
from commitments made through the end of 1979.
16.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to US$591.1 million at the end of 1978, US$917.9 million if undisbursed commit-
ments are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on
concessionary terms. The debt service ratio at the end of 1978 was 8.6 per-
cent. It is important that the country continue to borrow on reasonably soft
average terms in view of the country's poverty, the fact that it will continue
to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile price prospects, and
because, historically, natural disasters have sharply reduced the volume of
exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful in obtaining about
two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment program on terms
similar to those offered by the international lending agencies, the debt
service ratio is likely to rise to about 13 percent in 1986 and 15 percent
in 1992. Continued maintenance of Honduras' creditworthiness will depend
on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements its major public
investment projects; on careful, continued demand management, including
cautious use of non-concessionary borrowing; and on export promotion policies.
17.       The Bank Group holds 25.3 percent of the disbursed public debt
outstanding and repayable in foreign currency; excluding IDA, the Bank's share
is about 18 percent. About half of the IDB's total loans disbursed and
outstanding are repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the
disbursed public debt repayable in foreign currency is only 10.5 percent.
CABEI accounts for 15.0 percent of the total, the US Government for 14.2
percent, Venezuela for 13.2 percent, privately held debt for about 18.9
percent and other debt for 2.9 percent.
18.       During 1970-79, the principal external lending agencies active in
Honduras have committed some US$1,005 million at FY79 prices, of which the IDB
provided 38.3 percent, the Bank Group 30.4 percent, CABEI 22.3 percent and
USAID, 9.0 percent. IDB has concentrated on agriculture, manufacturing, water
and sewerage, transport, power, education and housing; CABEI on transport,
power and manufacturing, and USAID on agriculture and education (see Annex I,
page 6). It is expected that USAID and CABEI will continue lending primarily
in the same sectors in the future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture,
forestry, transport, industry and power.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
19.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received 22 Bank loans totalling US$377.7 million and 12 IDA
credits totalling US$85.1 million, both net of cancellations. The most
recent operation, a US$20.0 million loan and US$5.0 million credit for the
Second Agricultural Credit Project, was approved on April 17, 1980. Bank Group
lending to Honduras has been unusually large recently, both because of the
Government's stepped-up investment program and because of the major, lumpy
investment in the El Cajon Power Project, for which a US$105.0 million loan
and US$20.0 million credit were approved on March 11, 1980. While we hope to
continue to support actively Honduras' development efforts, the annual Bank
Bank Group lending level will be considerably lower now that the El Cajon
operation has been approved. An important factor which will be taken into
account in determining the pace and size of future lending will be the Govern-
ment's capacity to implement its large ongoing program and to absorb further
operations (see paragraph 11 above). As of March 31, 1980 a total of US$218.5
million remained to be disbursed on 13 operations for electricity, roads,
education, agricultural credit, ports, regional development, industrial credit
and tourism. Execution of projects financed by the Bank Group has, on the
whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980, as well as notes
on the execution of on-going projects.
20.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, while lending for power and transport has continued, diversification of
our lending has increased through operations for a Second Livestock Project;
a First Education Project, which included as major components primary and
secondary teacher training schools, and support for vocational training
centers and the national agricultural secondary school; a First Agricultural
Credit Project to finance livestock and crop development with emphasis on
assisting agrarian reform settlements through investment credits and a substan-
tial technical assistance program; a Second Education Project to help finance
rural primary schools and agricultural vocational education; a Regional
Development Project to assist small farmers and agrarian reform settlements in
the Guayape Valley; an Industrial Credit Project to provide funds primarily to
small and medium manufacturing firms and firms proposing priority projects in
the wood industry; a Tourism Development Project to contribute to the diversif-
ication of the sources of Honduras' foreign exchange earnings; and the Second
Agricultural Credit Project to continue financing livestock and crop develop-
ment, with increasing attention to small-scale and agrarian reform farmers,
and to initiate a pilot reforestation program.
21.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities
of the Government's investment program by continuing emphasis on investment
in agricultural and rural development to support the agrarian reform efforts.
A number of rural development projects covering many of the major valleys with
good agricultural potential are now being studied. We also expect to extend



- 8 -
further assistance to the expansion of educational opportunities particularly
for the rural population. We would also help finance activities to strengthen
the balance of payments and diversify exports, while continuing to lend for
physical infrastructure where there are still deficiencies to be overcome. In
transport, we plan to place emphasis on maintenance of existing roads and on
assisting the construction of a network of feeder roads to support the Govern-
ment's agricultural program.
22.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will remain at about one quarter during the
1980s. The IBRD share of public external debt service has dropped substan-
tially since the early 1970s because of increasing lending by other external
agencies and a slight increase in commercial borrowing. The IBRD share is now
about 20 percent and is projected to remain at this level through the 1980s.
23.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity invest-
ment, of US$295,000 and US$55,000 respectively, in a tannery, Empresa de
Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity investment
of US$27,500 was made in this company. In 1969 and 1970 equity investments
totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America, S.A., which was established to develop an industrial project
based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve. Although this company is no
longer involved in this project, IFC has assisted the Government of Honduras
in creating an organizational structure and selecting a technical partner for
the project. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0 million and an equity
investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V., a locally
owned textile company, to help finance an expansion and diversification
project. IFC continues working with CONADI and local private investors
in developing other investment opportunities in the country.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
24.       Honduras has the second lowest per capita energy consumption in
Central America, although total use of energy in the country has been increasing
by an average 7 percent annually since 1970. Commercially marketed energy
represents about 60 percent of total energy consumption. Imported petroleum
meets about 80 percent of commercial energy requirements and hydropower the
remaining 20 percent. Honduras' hydroelectric potential is large (about
35,000 GWh annually) but only 656 GWh, or about 2 percent of the total, has
been tapped. With installation of the 292 MW El Cajon Power Project (Loan
1805 of March 27, 1980 and Credit 989 of April 10, 1980) expected by 1986,
Honduras' hydroelectric production capacity will increase more than threefold,
to over 2,000 GWh per year.
25.       Apart from hydropower, the country's known domestic energy resources
are limited to wood, charcoal, bagasse and coal. Wood and charcoal account
for about 35 percent of total energy consumed in the country and for over
80 percent of the fuels used in rural households. As a result of continued
exploitation of forests for fuel, however, serious deforestation and consequent
fuel shortages have developed in a number of areas. Bagasse, which represents
about 5 percent of Honduras' fuel requirements, is used by sugar mills and
farmers largely in the regions where it is a by-product of sugar cane processing.



- 9 -
26.       There are a number of coal deposits in Honduras.  Although they
have not yet been fully investigated, a study by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) estimates possible reserves at about 10 million
tons. While geological conditions do not indicate that the country has major
prospects, further exploration seems justified. Commercially exploitable
discoveries of coal would help relieve the pressures on forests for fuel wood
and might be sufficiently plentiful for use by local industries or for small
thermal power generating units.
27.       In the face of increasing domestic demand for energy and higher
import prices for liquid fuels, the Honduran Government is attempting to
diversify and increase the supply of domestically produced energy resources.
In this connection, greater emphasis is being placed on hydrocarbons and
the Government hopes, through the proposed project, to accelerate petroleum
exploration. Also, with the help of bilateral and multilateral loans and
grants, it is examining areas which appear to have potential for geothermal
development. The Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (COHDEFOR) has
proposed the use of waste wood (produced by the country's sawmills) for
fuel, and a recent study by its consultants suggests that modern methods
of pelletizing woodwaste would make steam power plants economically feasible.
These plants would be mainly in rural areas and would help provide earlier
access to electricity in such areas than would otherwise be feasible. Finally,
the Government is also investigating gasohol possibilities and, to a smaller
extent, wind power and biogas prospects.
Sectoral Policies and Institutions
28.       In line with the increased attention being given to energy issues,
the Government has undertaken, with UNDP assistance (partly OPEC funded),
preparation of an energy balance with forecasts of supply and demand, by
sector, to the year 2000. At the same time, it is seeking, through training
programs--also with UNDP assistance--to increase the analytical capacity of
Government technicians and economists concerned with energy matters.
29.       To make these activities more effective, however, several sectoral
issues need to be addressed.  Among the most important of these is sector
organization.   A number of Government institutions participate in energy
policy-making in Honduras. The Economic Planning Council (CONSUPLANE) defines
broad national energy policy objectives, undertakes studies and coordinates
training. Other agencies with responsibilities in the sector are the Ministry
of Natural Resources (petroleum exploration and production), the Ministry of
Economy (petroleum products distribution and pricing), the National Electrical
Energy Company (electricity generation and distribution), the Ministry of
Communications, Public Works and Transport (transport companies), and COEDEFOR
(wood and charcoal production). Also, the Ministry of Finance plays a role in
the area of fuel taxation policy and in decisions on the public investment
program.
30.       In view of the large number of agencies involved, coordination of
energy planning and development in Honduras needs to be addressed. Recognizing
this, the Government agreed, in connection with the Nispero Power Project
(Loan 1629-HO of December 15, 1978), to contract a consulting firm to undertake



- 10 -
a sector organization review and study. With a view to integrating energy
policy-making and ensuring better coordination, one of the principal tasks of
the consultants was to be the examination of the possible establishment of a
National Energy Commission.
31.       However, the Government subsequently decided to handle the organiza-
tion matter internally without engaging a consulting firm, and, in March 1979,
established an Advisory Group to review whether and how the entire sector
should be reorganized to improve policy-making, management and planning for
the energy sector. In December 1979, the Advisory Group presented to the
Government alternatives for reorganizing the sector, together with draft
legislation designed to establish the entities required. Essentially, the
proposed alternatives involve two approaches: establishment of a Ministry
of Energy, or formation of a National Energy Commission, which would be made
up of key Cabinet members and structured to provide integrated leadership in
energy matters. The Advisory Group's report and recommendations have been
under review by the Government. While a final decision has not yet been made,
current indications are that the Government will opt for a National Energy
Commission, rather than establishment of a new ministry.
32.       Thus, the initial steps are now being taken towards improved manage-
ment of the energy sector. In addition, it was agreed during negotiations
that the Government would, no later than October 1, 1980, begin to carry out
its program to improve the organization of the sector (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.03). It is clear, however, that reorganization by itself will not
cause effective energy policy-making and planning; therefore, as soon as it
reaches a decision on the organizational approach, the Government intends to
analyze what specific additional studies and training assistance may be needed
to implement the new organization. In this latter connection, we plan to
respond favorably to a Government request to reallocate the funds (US$75,000),
originally assigned under the Nispero Power Loan for the sector organization
study, to provide assistance for the implementation phase of the reorganization.
33.       A second sectoral issue to be addressed is that of domestic petroleum
pricing and taxation policies. In this connection, the prices of some products
do not reflect costs while other products are priced higher to offset this
implicit subsidy. This tends to bias the energy demand pattern in Honduras
and, in some cases, promotes consumption and imports. It is important to
eliminate these distortions and assure the most economic use of fuel, while at
the same time controlling increases in oil imports. Taxes on petroleum
products have remained set since the early 1970s at a fixed, low amount per
gallon:  US$0.20 for premium gasoline (out of a total cost of US$1.79 per
gallon), US$0.025 for diesel, US$0.007 for kerosene, and US$0.003 for bunker
oil.  Aimed at keeping prices to consumers as low as possible, the petroleum
taxation policy not only deprives the Government of additional fiscal revenues
(in 1979 revenues from petroleum amounted to less than 4 percent of total tax
revenues) but also limits the effectiveness of other measures which have been
adopted to contain the use of petroleum products (see paragraph 36 below). To
help resolve these issues, the Government has requested a petroleum pricing
and taxation study as a component of the proposed project. The primary aim of
the study would be to provide the Government with a comparative evaluation



- 11 -
of the economic, fiscal and social effects of its existing petroleum pricing
and taxation policy and of several alternative strategies to be used as a
basis for achieving an adequate petroleum products pricing system.
34.       A third sectoral issue is the need to coordinate the various studies
of energy alternatives being carried out in Honduras (see paragraph 27 above),
and to assess their comparative costs and benefits. The proposed project
would provide consulting assistance for this purpose.
The Petroleum Sector
35.       Honduras has no domestic petroleum production.  All of the crude
oil for refining and various petroleum products are imported, mainly from
Aruba, where a mixture of crudes with a base of Venezuelan oil is prepared to
fit the requirements of the 16,000 barrels per day (BD) Texaco-owned refinery
in Honduras. Until 1975, this refinery, where the imported mixed crude is
processed, exported about 30 percent of its output of fuel oil annually,
primarily to Panama. These exports have all but stopped due to the establish-
ment of other refineries in the Caribbean area, and a consequent refining
overcapacity; the refinery is now operating at 70 percent of capacity,
compared to 80 percent in the early 1970s. Future alternatives for the
refinery are currently being studied by a United States consulting firm.
Petroleum products are distributed in Honduras by major companies such as
Esso, Shell, Texaco and Chevron, and by two smaller Honduran companies.
36.       The Government has taken a number of energy conservation measures,
directed mainly at gasoline consumption, such as limiting importation of
cars to 6-cylinder vehicles or less, reducing hours for gasoline sales to
the public, imposition of an 80 km (50 miles) per hour speed limit, limitation
on the use of Government vehicles, and sponsorship of energy saving campaigns.
Despite these conservation efforts, domestic consumption of petroleum in
Honduras is growing at a rate of about 8 percent per year. Diesel and fuel
oil consumption, primarily for trucks and power generation, account for almost
65 percent of petroleum product consumption. Gasoline, while declining as a
percentage of consumption as a result of conservation measures and rising
prices, represents about 17 percent of the total. Jet and residential fuel
(kerosene and butane) account for the remainder.
37.       Petroleum imports (crude and products) represent a growing burden
on Honduras' balance of payments. Petroleum imports account for about 13
percent of total imports. The country's total oil import bill rose from about
US$26 million in 1973, to about US$112.6 million in 1979, or about 15 percent
of total merchandise exports. While consumption of gasoline is projected to
grow at a relatively slow rate, use of diesel and fuel oil, however, would
increase relatively rapidly to meet electric power needs. With expected
increases in international petroleum prices in the years ahead, Honduras'
petroleum imports in 1985 would approach US$428 million, and represent 24
percent of projected foreign exchange earnings. However, with installation
of the El Cajon project in 1986, imports would drop to about US$360 million,
or 18 percent of projected foreign exchange earnings.



- 12 -
Petroleum Geology
38.       Onland.  Honduras' land area is about 112,090 km2, of which some
36,000 km2 are sedimentary. Perhaps some 20,000 km2 have petroleum prospects,
mainly the Caribbean coastal areas and the Comayagua Valley, where some oil
and gas seeps have been reported. These areas need to be surveyed in detail
with field geology and geophysical methods, coupled with photogeologic inter-
pretation, to accurately document these seeps. Though foreign companies have
generally neglected these inland possibilities, particularly because of the
poor quality and small size of the prospects, the area appears to have some
merit. Detailed surveys may upgrade the land prospects to the point that oil
companies will be seriously interested in searching for oil that could be easy
to produce.
39.       Offshore.  Most of Honduras' prospective petroleum areas lie offshore,
including some 53,000 km2 of continental shelf and 97,000 km2 of deep water
(200 meters and deeper). In the northeast, the shelf consists of a wide
platform capped by coral reefs and small sand keys which extends more than
200 km. The stratigraphic section consists of thick marine limestones, shales,
sands and siltstones, the thickness of which can reach several thousand meters.
Under proper conditions, the deeper shales may have generated petroleum while
the overlying sands may have acted as reservoirs.
40.       The Caribbean Sea offshore prospects appear interesting.  Several
sizeable structures were discovered by seismic surveys run by previous
operators. The attractiveness of the region is, moreover, confirmed by a
significant live oil show from a limestone bed encountered in Union Oil Main
Cape-l, a well drilled in early 1973. During a test at around 8,900 feet in
February 1973, about 15 barrels of oil were recovered, but the operator was
not motivated to pursue this finding at a time when oil was worth less than
US$2 per barrel. The Pacific offshore--a small portion of the Gulf of Fonseca
belongs to Honduras--appears less promising because of its proximity to the
volcanic belt which may mean great thicknesses of basalt, which would render
seismic interpretation impossible at the present state of the art.
Status of Oil Exploration
41.       Past History.  Although oil concessions have been granted to
Honduran and foreign individuals since 1916, exploration started in earnest
only in 1961, when major international oil companies (Pure Oil, Union Oil,
Chevron (Socal), Signal, Shell, Pecten, Mobil, Phillips) became active. In
addition to geological surveys, the operators ran air and surface magnetic,
gravity and seismic surveys. The total amount of seismic lines which have
been surveyed and for which profiles have been located to date for the compa-
nies who hold, or have held, exploration permits in offshore Honduran waters
is about 27,500 km. A complete tally would probably exceed 30,000 km. In
1980 prices, these data have a replacement cost of about US$20 million.
Although this represents a considerable source of data which could help
attract future investors, it has never been systematically gathered, stored
or interpreted. The proposed project will provide assistance in this area.



- 13 -
42.       Some 15 wildcat wells with an aggregate of more than 130,000 feet
have been drilled since 1961 (one well per 4,800 km2 of prospective area).
These wells have a 1980 replacement cost of about US$70 million. All were
dry with minor or no shows with the exception of the Union Oil Main Cape-I
(see paragraph 40 above).
43.       Present Situation.  One domestic and four foreign companies presently
hold exploration rights over nine offshore blocks and two land blocks, as
detailed in Map IBRD-14843 and as shown below:
No. of          Area in            Year
Permit Holder                     Blocks             ha        Acquired/Expiring
Empresa Centroamericana S.A.
(ECAISA)-Honduras                1 /a            34,301     1973      1979
Anschutz                           1 Ia           388,760      1975      1981
Anschutz                           2 /b           201,366      1977      1983
Esso                               6 lb           640,728      1977     1983
Texaco/Amerada-Hess                1 /b           179,455      1977      1983
Total                        11           1,444,610
/a Land block.
/b   Offshore block.
The offshore area currently held represents about 3.7 percent of the total
such area with petroleum prospects. The Government is currently reviewing the
status of the ECAISA permit which was due to expire in 1979 and on which no
work has been carried out. The Anschutz permits reportedly require little
work obligation and no drilling commitment. Esso, having complied with its
work obligations (a seismic survey and drilling two wells, which were dry),
can keep its blocks for another three years. Texaco/Amerada-Hess is presently
drilling a second offshore well; the first one (Castilla-1) was a dry hole
completed in early January 1980 at a total depth of 12,143 feet.
Current Plans
44.       Little exploration is expected to take place in the next few months,
but the Government plans to offer soon further offshore exploration areas
for bidding by oil companies. If these plans are realized, some five to ten
offshore wells could be drilled within the next four to six years, thus making
it possible to accelerate exploration of Honduras' petroleum potential (see
paragraph 40 above).
Institutional and Legal Framework
45.       Responsibility for petroleum exploration and production rests with
the General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (DGMH), which is part of the
Ministry of Natural Resources. DGMH, which is also responsible for the mining
sector, is inadequately equipped to discharge its responsibilities with respect



- 14 -
to petroleum. Its director, a civil engineer with extensive experience as
a private construction contractor, has little expertise in the petroleum
field. Its 25-man professional staff, while dedicated, lacks training in
almost all petroleum techniques and operations.
46.       In view of the new emphasis being placed on petroleum exploration, the
Government has assigned high priority to the reinforcement of DGMH. Accordingly,
through the proposed project, it is planning to arrange training of its personnel
by operating oil companies and through attendance at specialized institutes,
such as the Mexican Petroleum Institute. By itself, however, this training
would not be sufficient to allow DGMH to manage oil exploration effectively.
Therefore, the proposed project would also provide considerable consultant
assistance to DGMH.
47.       The petroleum law and its regulations governing petroleum explorati n
and production providl for exploration permits to cover no more than 4,000 km
on land and 10,000 km offshore, and to have a duration of six years extend-
able to ten years provided at leas5 two wells are drilled.  The financial2
commitment amounts to US$25 per km in year 2, increasing to US$75 per km in
years 9 and 10. According to the law, all relinquished blocks become part of
the National Reserves and can be awarded anew only after international bidding.
One such bidding took place in 1977 following a Texaco request for exploration
blocks previously released. The bidding was prepared by DGMH with CIDA assis-
tance, and three companies were awarded seven offshore blocks.
48.       The current law is weak in certain of its important provisions,
which are not in accordance with those normally used in industry practice,
and do not give the Government adequate compensation or control over rights-
holders. For example, the law does not properly define work obligations,
nor does it allow Government representatives to witness production tests.
The Government is aware that there are deficiencies in the law and has
requested assistance under the proposed project to revise it.
Government Program and Bank Role
49.       The Government attaches high priority to the discovery of domestic
petroleum resources. Its most promising area, the northeast offshore, has
been only lightly explored, and the results of past and ongoing exploration
efforts (one well per 4,000 km of offshore shelf) are inadequate to establish
the petroleum potential of Honduras. Moreover, a discovery of as little as
10,000-15,000 BD would go far towards satisfying Honduras' petroleum require-
ments. At the same time the Government wishes to avoid risking scarce domestic
financial resources in oil exploration. The Government's plans, therefore,
are to pursue a policy of attracting international oil companies to carry out
further exploration. Private capital would probably be available for a new
round of exploration provided that, on the basis of previously acquired data,
sufficiently attractive prospects are presented persuasively to potential
bidders. The Government recognizes the need for such an approach and has
therefore requested Bank assistance in these efforts through helping DGMH in



- 15 -
compiling and interpreting existing geological and geophysical information,
preparing and administering the bidding, negotiating with the foreign companies
and monitoring their work. It has also requested assistance in establishing
the basis for effective energy planning.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank mission
to Honduras in August 1979 and was appraised in January 1980. Supplementary
data are contained in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on
April 23-24, 1980. The Government delegation was headed by the Deputy Director
of DGMH.
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The proposed project would support the Government's efforts (1) to
discover petroleum by encouraging foreign oil companies to explore the most
promising offshore areas of Honduras, and (2) to improve energy sector planning.
The immediate objectives of the project are to:  (a) strengthen the capacity
of DGMH in the areas of geology, geophysics and other aspects of petroleum
exploration, production processing and transportation; (b) assist DGMH in
preparing itself for offering exploration areas to foreign companies; (c) pro-
vide DGMH with trained staff and technical capability to monitor operating
companies; and (d) assist the Government in priority aspects of energy sector
planning through a petroleumm pricing and taxation study and a review of
studies on alternative energy sources. It would include the following compo-
nents:
52.       Technical Assistance to DGMH.  The project would provide a total of
108 man-months of consultants to DGMH. Geophysical consultants would assist
in the organization of geophysical data and related activities so as to
facilitate information access and analysis by the Government and interested
oil companies. The petroleum exploration consultants would organize and
interpret surface and subsurface information, undertake special studies where
required, assist with preparation of evaluation reports and bidding documents
on areas to be offered for exploration and evaluation of proposals by oil
companies, assist with contract negotiations and monitoring of company work
commitments, train competent staff in the foregoing activities, and provide
guidance on exploration strategy. Other consultants would provide technical
assistance in oil accounting and auditing procedures and perform specialized
studies which might be required as a result of the findings produced by the
geological and other consultants. Finally, the consultants and an international
legal firm would review the current petroleum law and provide assistance in
making necessary revisions to better protect the interests of the country,
while at the same time providing adequate incentives to attract foreign oil
companies.
53.       Training.  The project would provide training for key management
personnel of DGMH and its professional staff in petroleum exploration techniques,
laboratory procedures and related activities through seminars, on-the-job train-
ing, and intensive courses abroad.



- 16 -
54.       Computer Processing.  This component would provide for processing of
(a) previously acquired seismic profiles in order to improve offshore geologic
interpretations and (b) Landsat remote sensing imagery and for putting seismic
lines data on magnetic tapes.
55.       Equipment.  The project would provide office and laboratory equipment
and materials, including storage files for geological data, technical books,
magnetic tapes, special copying machines for logs and profiles and a telex
machine.
56.       Sector Studies.  About 12 man-months of consultant assistance would
be provided for two energy planning studies. The first would review the current
petroleum pricing and taxation situation, with a view toward advising the Govern-
ment on policies in this area. The second would review the status of ongoing
Government studies on alternate energy sources, with a view to evaluating them
based on comparative cost effectiveness.
Cost Estimates
57.       The total cost of the project (it is exempt from duties and taxes) is
estimated at US$3.65 million equivalent, including contingencies of US$640,000
equivalent, or about 21 percent of the baseline cost estimate. Price contin-
gencies were calculated assuming international price increases of 10.5 percent
for 1980, 9 percent for 1981 and 8 percent for 1982. Physical contingencies were
calculated at 10 percent for all project components, because of uncertainties
regarding the precise quantities of work required. The average gross cost of
the 120 man-months of internationally-recruited consultants has been estimated
at US$14,000 per man-month, including travel, subsistence and overhead. This
amount is reasonable, taking into account the high level of expertise required
and salaries prevailing in the petroleum industry. A breakdown of the various
component costs is shown in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of
this report.
58.       The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange component of
the project, or 82 percent of the total cost. Local costs totalling US$650,000
equivalent would be financed by the Government.
Project Implementation
59.       DGMH would be the principal executing agency, while the energy planning
studies would be supervised by the Ministry of Economy (price/taxation) and
CONSUPLANE (alternative energy sources). It has been agreed that DGMH would be
adequately staffed to execute the project and provide necessary counterpart
personnel to the foreign experts (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). In
addition, it has been agreed that the Government would present to the Bank for
comment, no later than December 31, 1980, its proposals, based on the consul-
tants' recommendations, for necessary revisions to the petroleum law and DGMH's
accounting and auditing procedures, and would thereafter undertake such revisions
which are required to promote petroleum exploration in Honduras (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06). It has also been agreed that the two energy planning
studies would be completed no later than March 31, 1981 and promptly thereafter
presented, along with a statement of the Government's proposed actions thereon,



- 17 -
to the Bank for comment (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). Finally, DGMH
is expected to sell copies of an index tape giving the data of all seismic
recording stations and of a report prepared by the consultants during project
implementation to interested oil companies. It has been agreed that the
proceeds of these sales would be placed in a special account and, until
December 31, 1985, used exclusively for surveys and studies in the energy
sector (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)(ii)).
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
60.       Since the Honduran Government plans to accelerate exploration of
its promising offshore areas by granting permits through international bidding
by the end of 1980 or early 1981, DGMH has already begun to contract the
various consultants and purchase part of the office equipment provided under
the project. For this reason advance contracting for about US$1.1 million
and retroactive financing in the order of US$350,000 are recommended to cover
DGMH's expenditures after March 1, 1980 and before loan signature (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4).
Procurement
61.       The selection of the consultants would be in accordance with regular
Bank procedures, with terms of reference, consultants' qualifications and
contracts to be satisfactory to the Bank. Because of the small amounts
involved, office and laboratory equipment would be procured by local shopping
based on three proposals, in accordance with normal Government competitive
practice, which is satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
62.       Disbursements would be made over a period of about three years to
cover 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 80 percent of local expenditures
(representing the estimated foreign exchange component), for office and
laboratory equipment, and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for all other
items.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
63.       DGMH would keep separate project accounts to be audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and would submit audit reports to the Bank no later
than four months after the close of each fiscal year, starting with 1980.
DGMH would submit quarterly and annual reports on project implementation in
a format acceptable to the Bank. It would also prepare and furnish to the
Bank, no later than six months after the Closing Date, a Project Completion
Report.



- 18 -
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The primary benefit from the project, which represents a first step
in Bank assistance in the development of Honduras' petroleum sector, would be
private capital investment in high risk petroleum exploration on terms favor-
able to the country. The main risk associated with the project is that the
data, which is already available but has never been systematically gathered or
interpreted, may not be of good quality, or if it is, the prospects identified
may turn out to be inadequate to attract oil companies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft agreement conforms to the normal
pattern of loans for petroleum technical assistance projects and its more
important features have been included in Part IV and summarized in Section III
of Annex III of this report.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 6, 1980



-19-                                    ANNE  I
Page 1
TLE3A
NONDG3AS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SRHET
Et0NDRAS                  cREFERENCE GCOUPS (ADJUSTED A!IRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. ?36.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            112.1                                                    SAME        SAME      IEXT HIGHER
4GUOCUULTL        28.9                                 MOST RECENT      CEOAPRIC    INCCOE         tNCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       2EGION /c  C10P id   GCOUP /I
CMP PCR CAPtTA (US;)                  180.0       260.0      480.0          1124.4       467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGLAMA   0F CAL EQUIVALZNT)     155.0       247.0     264.0            943.1      262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-TA  (MILLIONS)        1.9         2.6       3.3
URIAN POPULATION (PERCENT 0F TOTAL) 22.7         28.7      32.0.            59.3       24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPVLATION  N1 YIXA 2000 (MILLIONS)                       7.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         15.0
ER  STATIONUT YPOPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
PoPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        17.0        23.0      29.0             23.5       45.3         44.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      67.0        91.0     114.0             80.5      149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGI STRUCTUIZ (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                          65.5        46.1      47.0             40.9       45.2         41.3
15-64  sIs.                        52.0         51.2      50.0             54.6       51.9         55.3
65 n1s. AND ABOVE                    2.5         2.7        3.0             3.9         2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCaNT)
TOTAL                               3.3         3.1       3.3              2.4        2.7          2.4
U0tAN                               5.3         5.4       5.3              3.7        4.3          4.5
CRUDE 1RTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.0        49.0      47.0             32.8       39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATd RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        15.0      12.0              8.5       11.7          9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.4       3.4              2.4        2.7          2.2
F7aLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TEOUSANDS)        ..        12.7      23.0
USECS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..       9.0             17.7       13.2         34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          79.4         96.0      86.0             99.4       99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   S4.0         99.0      90.0            107.0       94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GUMS PER DAT)            53.0        58.0      56.0             60.4       54.3         64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       21.0         25.0      20.0             28.3       17.4         23.5
CHILD (ArES 1-4) MORTALM  LATE       30.0        20.0       14.0             6.7        11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 31RTH (YTARS)    46.0         53.0      57.0             63.6       54.7         60.2
l4NANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          130.0        117.0     103.0             76.1       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAT1R (PERCET OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        34.0      46.0             63.4       34.4         60.8
URBAN                                ..          ..      82.0             79.5       57.9         75.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      27.0             38.6       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        24.0         *.            58.8       40.8        46.0
URBAN                                ..        64.0        ..             77.8       71.3        46.0
RS11AL                               ..         9.0        ..             24.5       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..      3710.0/f  3300.0           1841.9     6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..          ..    1420.0            933.7     1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                            590.0        570.0     660.0            563.4      726.5        453.4
URBAN                                 .       150.0         ..           279.4      272.7        253.1
RURAL                                ..     11810.0        ..           1140.9     1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER 8OSPITAL BED            ..          ..      24.0             25.7       27.5         22.1
COUS4INc
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
DOTAL                               5.7          ..         ..             5.0        5.4          5.3
URBAN                               5.5          ..        ..              4.8        5.1          5.2
RURAL                              5.7           ..        ..              5.3        5.5          5.4
AVERACE 'L'SER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.4         ..        ..              1.3          ..         1.9
'.R.AN                              1.8          ..        ..              1.3         ..          1.6
RIRAL                               2.7          ..        ..              1.5         ..          2.5
iC'-ESS TO LICTEICI-Y (PERtCEN
OF DWELLUNCS)
-TOAL                              15.0                  25.0             54.3       28.1         S0.0
URBAN                              56.7          ..      67.1             60.1       45.1         71.7
RURAL                               2.0          ..       5.5             1-.2        9.9         17.3



- 20 -
MNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
HoNDURAS - SOCIAL TXDrCATORS OATA SHEET
MONDURAS                  Rll:iRCI C~Rouis ^.AUWSTED AyGE? CE5
- MOST XECE!T ISTI!T  -
SAME        SAME     SEXT HICHER
MOST RECtNT     GEOGRAPHIC   lfCOCM       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 /b EST IXATE /b      RECION /c   GROUP /d    CROUP /a
EDUCA.:OS
ADJUSTED EMROLLwENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     bO-AL                67.0         93.0      89.0            107.3       82.7       102.5
MALE                 68.0        9'.0       S9.0           109.1        87.3       108.6
FEMALE               67.0        93.0       88.0           107.4        75.8        97.1
SECON)ARY:   TOTAL                 8.0         12.0      13.0             40.5       21.4        33.5
MALE                  8.0         13.0      13.0            40.4        33.0        38.4
FEMALE                7.0         12.0      13.0            39.0        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t 0o  SECONDRY)  24.0         18.0      25.0             18.5        9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           32.0         35.0      35.0            37.1        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         10.0           ..      17.0            17.9        23.4        22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        45.0          *-      57.0             77.4       54.0        64.0
C0NSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0          5.0       5.0            29.1         9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAN
POPULATION                        68.0         57.0      54.0           172.1        76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSArD
POPULATION                         1.0          8.0      16.0            67.9        13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INYERESr) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 21.0           ..      35.0             76.1       18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTEnDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        ..              4.2        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAUOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      590.0        780.0     979.8
MEMALE (PERCENT)                  12.5         12.8      13.3            21.5        29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.2         66.5      63.0            30.2        62.7        43.5
LNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.6         12.5      14.7            23.8        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5         30.6      29.8            30.9        37.1        33.5
MALE                                 55.3        53.5      51.8             47.3       48.8        48.0
FEkU%LE                               7.8         7.8       7.9             13.3       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.6       1.7              1.5        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRISUTION
PERCE.T OF PRIVATE 7NCOHE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT Or HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..            23.7        15.2        20.8
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         67.8jj      ..            58.7        48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         2.3/g      ..              2.9        6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         7..                       9.9        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTEE POVERTY LNCOM
LEVEL (05$ PER CAPITA)
UlRAN                               ..           ..    240.0            265.6       241.3       270.0
UIRAL                               ..           ..    170.0            185.1       136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY LNCOME
LEVEL (tss PER CAPITA)
URJAN                               ..           ..    235.0            396.3       179.7       282.5
RURAL                               ..           ..      75.0           308.1       103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLtlTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      14.0            35.2        24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..           ..*     54.9            46.6        37.5        35.3
Not available
Slot *pplicable.
/s    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geometric aeans, excluding the extrem
values of the indicator and the mosc populated country in each group. Coverage of countriee among the
indicators depends on availabilitcy of data and is not unifom.
/b    Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any rear bet.een 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Rectac  stimate. becween 1974 and 1977.
/t  Latin America & Caribbean;  Id  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita. 1976);  /a  Intermediate
3!ddle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  If  Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/  1967.
Host Recent letimete of GCP per capita is for 1978.
AuguaC, 1979



*    21 -                                                          ANIiE    I
Page 3
hWNFfIT'IOS Or SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes   Aithoogh the data are dran  from .-ures gene.rally judged the most aethoritti-e end reliable, it should s1ae be neted that they s   not be interns-
theil    operahis be-sue of the lank of otandardiord definitios and ooaoepte used hy different ocutries in -ollectisg the ants. The dnt. aer, s-nthbeloss
useful to desribe orders of msgnitude, indio-te treds, sod oherscteise certin maJor differen-e  het.een coutrie.
The ndjusted group a-eges for enoh iadi-t-atree pupoitin-eigisted geoeeetri.omeans,  -ooldlg the ectres  values of the indicator snd the  -ot populated
coutry is raub grouy. p Tee to lnk of dnts, group n-eeges of all indloators for Capital S.iuclo  Oil Esl,rtors end of indiontor  of Acces  to Wnter sod Ecorta
iiipo.al, Hoousing, Incm  Diatribution and Phe-ty for other o.utry groups are poplatios-eeighted geo-teio meas eithout snoluion of the eutrem   cuu-  and
the most ppouited -onntry.  Siethe  ovraeofocstriesan   the indloaoed nso  av llaiitr of data  nd is not unformcaution must he eer-is-d
in  rlte  veraiges of one iulnor ho sother  Tes   raveree  mrs metly usfu.a. aproimtions. of ".eo drctod   alus  mbno,prs  the  -noe  of one
iiotur atatmeaog the coutry and referene groun..
Ian ANAg (thassed sq.k.)                                                                  Assess to tarot. Dismml(areto   n ltes   SP- toal uban. end rural 
,E71=   Total esefaee  area. o.ehslsg Lawd see  and Imland  aters.                               or o  peupl. it%ota, ura,  n   eae)aeedb."rtadsoa 
AgieFtem         Wett resent estiate of wgiemlt-ea  arm. need tneaprily                   pareentages of their repestiva pp.l.atiesa. beret. dIsposal W  imelsde
sepsaely for crePe, pasture., market end kitche  gardens Wr to                   the .s1lsetien sd dispesal, mitt mremithsnut teest~aat, of been  steets
lIe. falloW.                                                                             Am  masts-ester by ste-burn   qatma  er the us  of pit priflessat sala
PIR   (us*)   =P W   ..Pt. ..umt-  t C.Maot   rkt pri-inataflatinen.
'MP   CAPIpeTAptaetiaesa  cran  mretpics                                                                      h-pseltion divded by smeter of prahtieteg physician
saismtateday a    seve rswion matted -  Unrig Dank Atlas (1976-78 basis);                                  Noih~ttiils1esbm   taieriylvl
1960, iL9705  ad 1978 data.                                                             Pslti"' eaen.    Parsen - tp.lalthon divided by sastr of patielag male
REY  eM         OMic  MN CAPITA - Annul oensuption of serseoiml  -onay                      nd  esl  gradasato  uss  pmttoal nees .d assistent nurses -
a          -a-__________Psslts                                                                         gaiaNd-total, urban. end rura  - Pnps1atisn, (total, ucan
selmadl&de tiee.   aura  ga  and bydee-, nuclea  and Sam-                          NMdrua)dvidbyterescientrufhptlbds elslen
itesmalelectrci    hmkilegesm   of ..og equIvalent Pee caPita; l96,                 pulcadp daegnrl  a   psaia    otia  adrhhhtts    ses
1970, and 1976 data..                                                                       b4    n   r          ..a    dpLI.dhapt1wdr blti                               -.
Hospitlal are eatsblhabeetn paermanetly staffed by at masht use pdsysiein.
POHJIATI AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               Nstabiiheatts providing prd,ssipally custodial. sure -emt imeluded. nRal1
toalPaeltihe. mAYdar'iiniue) - As ef July 1; 1960, 1970, and                             hospitals, heerer, include health sad medieal esters not permanetly staffed
"ll7dta.                                                                              by a physlicia  (hUt by a medIcal assistast, nurse,  idmife, ate.) tick  offer
Ura  osltiun (pe t of t           Ra)-thin  of urbsse to total popeLti;i-tit matiti  nmd pRovide a limiedt  rageof mdIjica  fasilitia..
dafie  ntdefimlltin   at urba  aeas may affect  -p-arbiiity of data                   Adigpge.ppl.1                    Ttal oastr of adisusto or diseharges fee
sgeutre;1960, 197, and 1975 data.                                             hopIiWlW WhtkitrOfbds
.o3tie  Pro setiom.
tie Din  ear 2000 - yCurret ppslation projestisna are beasd o                   fIBG
'IWitl966iAi     by . ag    d aeu sad their  -,tality and fertility        Aveag dine  f Nsaseihld (srosprhueod)-ttl   ra.sd rura  -
rates.  r-jectiem  pareaeters For mortality rateso.      rs  of three                A hushold consists of a  eu   tislisa.  k   hr    Ivs  quarters and
levels    -.    IIuaa  lfe expetacy at birth Inc reasing, mitt eutey a                their main meals. A hoarder or lodge  may or may not be included in the
per  Waita inom  I.-l, sad r inle life espeotaacy stbilailng at                       household for statistical purposes.
775 ysr. . The parmters for fertility rate als  have These levels                 Averag. nmber of persoss re-ttl urban, and rura  - Average nobto
assumIgdelaine in fertility an-rdipg to innes leve  and psat -of Person  Per ru   he al                            ira,md rural occpied  -ovetiosal duellingc,
family elasniu  performnc. Xba  -ontcy in th-enassigned oe  of tke.e                 repectively   Deelliags eaide n-praet strtue  and unccpied parte.
also cetinatieme of msrtmllty and fertility trends fur projection                  AM"ss toIetiie(ecn   fdeius)-ttl  ra.adrrl-Cn
ittiss                         eluain     nasationar  population ther  is no gevith     total, urban, and rs.a  deoflings respectively.
stinc  th    ithrt  i qa  to the death rate, and also the age
strutur  rein     -cntant. This is achieved only after fertility rates           EDUCATION
decline t  the repla-n-en t leve  of unit net reprodasetion rate, uen              Adjuted  nrollmat. Ratiss
each generotiec of mes  repla"e  itself  -ostly.  The sttionasy pope-                 Primay sehonI - toal ml ad eml    G rene total, male and femal  ver.11-
Iatio  sine  -  estimated en thbebasic of the projected ehacteristica                   gent of all ages at the primay levla  percetages of respective primr
of the ppoplation in the year 2000, sod tho rate of decline of fertility                school-age Ppopltions; aermaly incldes children aged 6-11 year, hut
rate to replace,et leve.                                                                 dJusted for different lengths of priasry ednoation; f- or  otrirs sith
Year statiesy popasltion is reached - The yearten  stationary popultion                   unvra  eduction  -.rolm-t. ma  emced 100 percet since som  pupil.
sine has been reahed.                                                                   are hel1n or above the officIa  school age.
Pevelation Density                                                                        Secondar scoo-Itta        'ml and fale  - Co"peted -sabc..c;e'orco""y
Par us. ha. -  id-year peplatin per squar  iilo ter (100 hectares) of                     _ euaion  eqirest at least fou  years of *pprcce  primacy ieroi
total area                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prsvides genra  ec-tional, or teacher training  nastr-ti-n  for pupils
Per as. ho. gi-uItural land - Computed -  sov  fur agricltural landusualy of 12'to 17 your  ofag;  orepondenc  c-uru   are genrally
only.                                                                                   enlded.
Pelaia   g   tneture (perent) - Chlde  (0-lb year), aerhing-sge                    oainlerle     (ecn   fscnay   Vocatiesal  institutions includ
)5b   er  ,.en  retired  k  year  and ovr) as percestage  of mid-year              teebical, industrial,o   te   rgsa   ikoeaeinoednl   ra
population; 1960, 1970, and.1977 data,                                                    departmenits of oncondary institutios..
P.  laies G-oth Oats   reest) - total - Aonnua geeth rates of total mid-                  Neltahrrto' rmr.as  seodry - Total studest  aro-lledit
yearpoplatonsfor1950-O, 1950-70, nd1970-77.                                        primar  andseonar  level  diie ynumber  of teaher'                 ntecre
PePu1atios G-nth Sete. (va-n)l -uban-  Aonnual groeb  eaten of urban                        spendinghein
populations for 195070 ,1960-70, s.d 1970-75.                                           Adult literasy rate (percen.t) - Literate adults (able to real nod -vite)a
hatep         ortthousand) - Amnuml flee birth. per theesand of mid-apercetage of total adult population aged 15 yearu and ovr.
yar pultf.~er; th0 1970, and 1977 data.
C     NateDthousand)   Annual deathn per thouand of mdd-year                   COSNUMPTICOI
pueltin1k   ,19 d,i1977 Ants.                                                Pasege Cars (oc:r thousan  p ulto)- Passenger car  -oprio enot- orne
Ores oedcies hate - Avenge oesehr of d.gtees.  som illersaiglesta   ih  pesos;eldsu ambulances, hearses and military
inh r asa reproductive period if she e.pri-eae   presen.t age-veil.
speeific ferti lity rates; uaslly fiv-year  -eerge  ceding is, 1960,                  MadOn ecIvrs g(ore thouead oolotios) - All types of rceivern for radIo
1970, s.d 1975.                                                                         bredutjognrlpbic per thouand of poplition; ..cldes onlicenoed
raily Pan-iss-Acpos   nul(hssn -                   -UAnnual number of                     receiver  is coutries and is fear  sk.. regiutration of r.di.urtoonu-
-roptoro bit-coto  devier             nerasie  of natisnal  finally                    effect; Ants for recet years say not he  -op ..sble ui-c  nootconre
plansieg peeps..                                                 s~~~~~~~~~~.b11helshd licensing.
famly laolog- Oers(1ar-et o                       Pnre   oe( - .Pretage of maried  TV neeivers (perthosn p ulation) - TVroees for b-od-nt to general
sesof child-bearing ae(5k  yer)uh              eo birth-contrel devises             public pe!r thosadpopultion; enldsoli-nusd fTY recivers in countries
to all merIrd -ee  in see  age group.                                                   and in year  ten  rgint-tion of TV sets ens in effect.
FOD00      NTITO                                                                          Ltesea2e  Circultion (per th-ansd prlathou ( -  oon  the average circulaion
-r-IR'~1 doetI,:per Cap1t, Ila -71~100  - Ioda  or paof.pdaily general isterest ne-pap ,dfnds   aprioui-nI pbhlitesice
....rrrIprdodutios o  se  Cacit _19697-  )-idno   e   aiaderoted primarly torecording ger                                             -oe.  It is considered to he "daily'
annul prductos o  allfendOsdlies . Production enlude  need and               if it sppears at latfu  ie   en
feed and is on  alendur year basis.  Todities corer primary goods                    Close Anoual Attendnet per Caita oc year-tednki  nse   f    it
(e.g   -9garcae icetead of sugr) skin  are edihle and -oii  onutrients                 sold during the yer   nldin    dluln  to drive-in cine   and nobile
(e.g. coffele and tea are coluded).  Aggregate pedution of each centy                  onit..
Isbhasd on national avnepunorpirsIgIa 
Pee.sit. nporlye of osorvo)orest of reusirenLt.)-Coptdfe                        120OlC
--e-   equivalent of set foud_ oupien avalable isoutry Per en.Pita.                  oa hor force (thousands) - fEonoicaly artier persons, including aed
Peeray   Available supple  coprise dometic peoutin  imprts less                      feresad onaloe  btelding bonemieve, utdento, etc. Definitic-
ve,ports, ad changesi  uoh.Nt  uple   -nlde anma  feed, seds,                        in variou  o-ontries se  act coparable.
quatiie  usd  nfoed prcesig  and losnes Is dibt tio5. Require-                FElyJpr~tc),-nfeemle labor forc  as peroatags of total labor force.
mtnmresiaed by fAd based on pbysioigicaj nedo for normal                                       t    abrforce is farming, foretry, hunting and
antivity sod health ceusidering envi-osental teperatur, body esighta,                fihing_ uspcnagoftalabroce
age  nd  en  intihuIon    fPoplation, and al1icuin  10 porcest for            Inusry pret  - Labor forc  in mining, contrution  eanufacturin  ano
nacte at iousehold level.  .                                  electeio~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ity,  str an-aa    ernutags of total labor fore.
fee   Pteid nelyo f ~EroenP-     an     d:y) - Prtoin  -oteut of pr                  ParticiPationRt  pret   total mae,an  feae- Participation or
capia se  suply  f fod pr dy. Nt npply of feed is dfiard usativity rate  ar   optdu   ea,sl, and feae labor force ac per-
shove . Requiremets fee s1.1 -nutrieu established by RSDe previde for a. ceiges of total, male and female population of all ages respectively;
odinis  allan-   of 60 gram  of total protein per day and 20 gem  ofr                 1960o, 1970, s.d 1975 data. .Thsa  are II110 carticipetios rates rflectiug
animal and pelse protein, ef thick 10 gene should be eninul proetin. age-sex. struture of the population, and long time trend. A fec estimates
These ntndards are losr thua thoee of 7f5 gesa  of total protein sd                  are fro  nntionalse en
23 grnmu of anima  protein ns an average for the nurld, proposed by PAO             &9Olyipe96pY Ratio -  hatio of Pe  slonuder 15 and 65 and ovr to
in the Th ird World food Ourcy.                                                      th_64frMiIaegnu   f1-A   er.to
P.rerPita erotein ucaly fre  anima and pslne - Protein supply of food                  telbrfr-I   9    -     f1                 .a
deie   reaiasad             ple   ngenprday.                                     0NCO)6 DiISRIOmiION
Chil (aes -u)shoraliy nte per houand( -Annua deaths per thousad            Paroen 1tag   frPrivate2inaE (bothin cash and hind) - heneivd by rioheet
in age grouP 1-4 yearn, to c,ihildren in this age group; for most dee-                  5pret  ieet 20pecet, porest 20 percent, and poorest e0 pe-enet
eying coutries data derived fee life tables,                                            of ssshds
HULEAlTHRT  TAYRGITIgofn
life erecanoy a  Birt )yeau)     verag   nubr of years of life              Fsidi&hiiTh              rr       elevel (28  ev -cPita) - urban and rusi 
reosiolg at bith; 197, 1970,and 197. data.Absolut  povrty mam-  leve  i5 tha  inoe                                     Ie hole chick a minima
Infnt ortlit Rae peethosan) -Annaldeaths ef infants  deonnuiieolyaqatdetpsesnilnn-foo   eurnnsC   o
yer ff    g t ipert thousandflee birthq.raftcrimhbet
AecesotoSaf=Wter (saerost ofwmatsins  - total,. uran had rual -                         Estinatd Relativsphvrty mace lee (28$ see  arita) - urban md rural-
Thae  f   1pel  (total, urban, and rura) sith r-au=ale acces  to                   heal relative pvrty in.m   leo   is oer-third of avrae per capats
safe eater supply (insludee treated surface  ateca or antemted hut                      Personal i-eom  of the -oatry. Urban level is derived from tke rural lec-l
socotamlatedsa.ter  -uh as that fre  protected ho-dsles, springs,                       mitt adjuetant for higher cos t of living is urban area..
and aitr  wells) as perentages of their respective populations.                       Relihed Puulation Salns Abselute P-verty inoetej(evs--   ra   n
anabnarea a pubIc feontas  or sts.dPest located ash mere thans                     rura  - Percent ef PPoplation (urban, and raleho ae"boue~~'
200 metrs from a kose. Ws ha nonidered -s being mittin r-aseale                                                                                           I ~
accean  f that hous.  In rura  areas reasonable acces  -nlo imply
that the hoeseife or meters ef the household do oct harm  to spend atn-ic and SocialDtin  Division
dIsp-rpotionate Psrt of the day in fetching the family. s mtar asea                                                      NEeno-h  Analysis and Projectio.. Department
dsgust 1979



-22 -
ANNEgX I
2-13-80                    Paee   4
.A8I0N01. AUCOUNTS G1T
(8IL-TTS 01 000 GA       195    OVC
GROSS 00802110C -OACUCr                    7ll0         078.7       11,40 8       277 0       0334. 5     1420~7       '59591        li-T        2541-8         C I          7-A          5 N         5A          30.0C
GROSS 5501 .. DCOCO-                       741 0l       0S8.9     -1             -    EAA3.4  70   8 91 AA 01          14-0         '808"I       284-4          C 7..        3C          5.1          S-A'   CO "     "   I,  "C  '  2  102.~7
1M08A05                        C-TA~~ ~~~~~~           ~~   ~~~~~ le95  47.  473     7.0       0432         093.6        91-          17-            -C         84           00           5-2         41.5
IMPAIS  -      -CTTE                       AUG7N       -3681 9       92.5        I-9 0       -480 N       -SAC1 I       628. 0I                  -10.            .7         I            7 0          5           3-
EXOT     A    O950-7                             -409 0        113-        -9<           534.3       547          00.            97       -00              <           N            NA             4        36R
GPEACOGA  - AlA  158                         S           O            07 -5        0N           GA-A         95,0        BA 7        TIC 0         89-3                                                             S
08044  OONSOT901GON    708.8        934 9       1090 9       00~~~~~~~~~~~~~16.7  TIAA.   ANN       2A.           030        1925.7        35           4-N          4.,6        487          087
NATIONAL 58870-5                           AT3.2         49.4        135          IA3         210.5         174-0       829          74           815.1            0          0          8..9                      9
D8M1ST10 S-,INS,                            70.         '241         1-9           37 A       459.2        248           84.         7089 2        2.0          4C           0            74C-                      3
00GOPA  CUGGOS   ISN                       5l01         717.0        507.0       1564.0       1819.0       2164.0       2G21.5       4248.5       7181.3        8.7         18.4          I             l
SECOTGG TATOG
(50480 00 SC.1   T97GS  TOIUOST
IGAIOJOTOGO                                C.0          3-90         2-90,       C.A87        0-37         938          0 704        I  -O      0.265
IACOSORT                 CAll         0-239        3-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0207  02  0269         0-264        0-269        020         01
SEROICES                                   0I4          C.41A        3 433       C4375        0.423        0,TAT        9,429        0-929        O.4A
080061 PRI01 11700051<                                  597          IS 5' I '1  '17864      044.12 IA    141.2         502         790          21~8. IA          8         0.           0.6S         0.2
IMPORT P0I0E 10DE0                        33.1          1.3        l SOG 90      I  05       12.8         24A           62 14      777l I       299.20         8.          IT 7          7.           0.I
TEAM  OF 1080  IND'0                      130.         732.39       139. 00      115 40      111.4         96.59        90.9G        9  06        94.57        -0.9         -68 0        -  0C08                 -
G80 P0 TA10   105                           0.4'         S -T       TOO 94       124.82       134.31       102.32       160.80       21.8.7      286.30         543         10.3                        .
4A-11  2093   18004907  GATE                A  7          .0             0         20           2.86         2.86
-------   - ....   -   -17                    *94           970          90 1-7                   098         199           90          1885
(C.  ET IONAI NOL3    S
I-TA EGG                                   AA A GOC   1202-15.                   413           15          5.0          5.           404         11.
'.    AG  00960   GATOS -T                 42.2         407           98         893          9.            45         181.7261                   0.
2.  PT01000      GIL.  eUAUSS                A             3           NS           539          70.7         70.3        1A8         197.9        428.1
3.  OTHO    NOMO81    00                     A           170.7        159          159 6        170           3.          20.         297 2        52.9
4.  C-PIAG   000 -9.5                                     ATA.         18          137          140          AT           80.5        896.0        540.2
5.1 T0080 G9039 (C10)                       2690         41.9         440.0        45.          08.9         74.2         80.8       10302        48 5
0.   N8-04CT8   5001000CE                    01           77.6         82A 2       100. 4       128.6         6.14                     06.0  80A 53.4
7.  08100 0.07  81-  SOC                    302          ISI0          I 457        14.7        654.8       704.          917.5      IIA2-        2071EN
0P00810 17810I 
IC''  10'-4        1990~III     1979        1977         A979         1374          9-90        19A5
4.1 BANANAS                                  92I          79 7         61 0        106.7       127.9        41.6         70..4        222.0        343.8
120 000E0                                   41.6         43.9         00.9        00.3         188 2       Al0          15.9         285 3        IRS-8
43.3 0850                                    77 I         47           380         4.           47.          4A2 3         2.'         47.0        104.5
BE 00 2F                                                1            08 .3       25.6 -         A          40 9          78           83         10.
1.SLOGOG                                        I          AI5          7.           8.           72          5           13.5         25S0         01-A
E0LEG                                         IC0.                     30           69           7.3         7.3          118         130          71.5      -
Z IMNC                                                  4.           161          11.         12.          13.          A            0087-
_.R140010 _00  AMD OTHERS          110.         171           7.          6  4         -0.          4    1       30.0        1598        48
3.  8108.0        05                            .         171.         214.         25.A         27.0        28 A          4.'3        57           8.
4.T1088  030DS (I C0.0  I                   506.5        20.9         37979        400.2        5A2 22      620.0         758.0       90O6 I      16467
5.       1-08010  0E-10E7                    27 A         a2.7         39.0         30.0         50.3        61.0          71.8        AA9         065.2
N T 1000GOOTS 850  IS                       277           31. 3       743.0        140.8       5i72.5       008.1         821.9       90.0        103.
AI.E. Addd4
LABOR 8081 E4                                     1173NDA
50100100 T-TTUIIU-S                        -501 7      1017779      1171905995-0                                                                             OGPUT 0P8 W88K08             Lb26 0808          E8,.84
1000                                        5I07         3 47         4.30        I. 4.4AOAa                                                                            1878                        1078                   87
IMPORT EOAFII201TA                         307           1.7         0.07           TAI..,                                                                                               .81        83. 7      132       58.
"900E     0009    ICGOS01                   0 "    LA    9.9           0           0.0                                                                        -I-4M                      .184    -147          23     -17.
84A0G04I  -8170M    581A I     0960         I.'         -1            02  0          25                                                                                                   29         2.        29         8.
1G100CRT'/006                               0 57         0.405         .4         0.46                                                                        Tt.190                               100        10
INi,lSTAONI 70-                             T'.2T        020.         32 84       327                                                                                                     88       168        18         186.0
8850600   0807000                           0.05         00 CS 00                  3 07
ELI8110_FINANCE  11e.o.t.d IAdA-M...MI                                                                                                                                                       -       864          -PAI.c
ICenlosI 8aAe.....cRII       1965    1978    1976    1977    1978    1878    1883                                                                           DETAIL ONP8..8 
"p'  -                                                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I4VETGN  0888888      1988-73   -1975-78      19789-8
Curret R-aAptA/GDP           18.8   13.2    1.        158     15.3    16.7    11.                                                                            6AAL8NA                             2.          A4          1.
CrcrA...  OaPIcdltu,...       8.2    11.1    146.    18.4    14.2    14.2    146                                                                             A,1%1       sa,.d FAIestry           3.8         '18.       18.3:
B.do,t,,y  ,,I 2t,.,   1:46    2-1 1  1:1   1:1 ~~~~~~~~~~:l  1:G                                                    p .. IAae                            22.7       14.7         38.8
audaclsry 15410183  1.8    2.1  0.2  1.4  1.1  8.3  1.0 -                                                            OPR6RPAPA RId O8RM9J8TAMAAA0M        92.8       64.1         24.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-pirt..d    -icti-  52.   4   24 
810c  Pubt    Rb   401        .      1.1     2.4      2.8     3.      3.13    3.8Bae                                                                                                              -         12.4.
88081i1 SecarIRe- .cA         2.5     8.6      7.'3    0.8    18.     .8                                                                                     T--. 1,d8.10.                                  100          0.
C089087 EXPENDITURE DETAILS                    888880                                                                                                       FI-NANCING OfPgL0808  CAPITO  EXP0NMR89ES-
_lAs 8_Tatat CAO-Rnt_8880d.)         1878       9 107  1876-   1888                                                                                          ubIc Scata, S.NRG6                  38.8       48.4        48.8
EduAGtl(A                             27.6    24.7   23.5    25.5                                                                                            CR8164  Rccnc                         4.3         1.1-
41cS016.     ria.1.                          10     1.      15.7                                                                                          Foreign FiNalloa (Inct               40.4       67.8         48.
8gH'0,14t..                            3.8      8.      184     60.4                                                                                         DA....1ti  FIAM-iOA 11,61            15.4         2.3     --2.2
818cr 9-BBRI  eMAGIA-                 10.3    13.0    13.8   12.3                                                                                                                                 0.           00        100
AOuTarsinMd Defe.se           35.8    2B.8   38.15   28.4                                                                                                                                18.        168           8.
002cr CdebtAric47.8                             87       .     10.7
186.0   188.0   186.8   186.0
I.c18d8c  -urr-n  dcRcIaosBn  capcooditurcu.



-23 -
Page 5
I I7  7 1     11-          I-     08 847  0  78888157810lr   8  6 1,808880
SU-  .1 C, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~8 
8   89500809 8074808              8~~~~~~~~~ 1    2-127   10  3         888         -8I        7      8      - 95.6         13          118            -5             07         - 2871 7     25 18
3   881  840788 0880808  ICOME       2-73  8        -1     8-88         -5        I       -676I         3  81.      808 I 1                  -802I 0          73         - 88I        -1987        -78 
8888188818888 888M8885  -795       -148888                   ~~~~         ~~~ ~~~23  808  834       -486          73I 450                     5I           674         -842-        I 8-2
8I088018  1838808   88-E8                     17                    -802          48 8         -377         -400         -88      80               -lo00           187         -800         -34         -8806
5808088$88M81581800$797087      0            0            0            -0~~~~I  0I               0             0         I17                            7            0            0            0
M8088C8  01800880088  0707087  1451788          -~~~~~11081117            -17  4          84I-        13.8        217         -089             171        -73           -374        -8718
3   8882070 OIOMI   8808..808.          8 I         - I02         0            71 8         68           7I          10.0         '80          20-0           7'7           77          870           0
80087870                                                    88                       1             38          7            41.3        "17           8  7           8  01,     8"5           817 8       -884;
16 4608888888108           0            0            0           -~ ~~~                     ~~           ~~          ~~          ~        ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~0  0  7        7 0    - 
18   88857M888                                                0            0            0            0            0            0            780                                      000
888888283  1008 88 888188)  477         0~~~~7I8     8.            2-          I            0            4   5151I                833 I77'                    712 0          "7I -      82
I 8088180   E.MANTS      -                  11,7            0            0 -                      .0        0I           11           1I          1                            lc          2 7       ~    1
8.  68887 870880 96638 10888  80 I   078         '885          1804~~~~I--  2246        144-
6088088808c 1W            D"s              'o           ITs0             3            0.      32l              -068288    86  80488I80085'70
IC888087..       8871III32                                7              8        21P  5       21.I         74 3I117                                                                                                                          I-
I.I     1. 'I         7            ,1 1~ ~~ ~880  80  7932818   13
84     T 889*38I                                            01          -0I        3,              0            0..              68I0870                                      7T 7.4                  28       3    86      4    .             9.
3o     215          21.0         SI9                      PEI,08860856888788                                      0            0                         8           -
989886*80-16  830880                                                                            86680~~~~~~~~~~~--  8-8 --- - ---                          - 8 -1 6                  -25          -46          -5-
aSO"D5                      IT           I            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~88    085
8-  498888 8786888  08 88807~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,_2                                                                 ~1       11
08 -8 IT8                            750        8   0          80         7   0         780         6  800              886888078057                                    3            3            4              8            1           8
008  8888 807'7108 -83-. 8878808   3~ ~         2 81        88 8         28. I        8.8          87
CT                                                                              ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~68  -68  E.8    5/08   887                                      .            -            .
68666 08606                            109.6         25.3                                      681  86888083.'I'8878 8876                     16 7         '2  8        63 8         66 7         688 8T       64 8- D..  2  5.
0866868668868  -  70168880 8081888888 878   ~~~~. 108.2PE   26.5                                               81838086         II,I,DTIMD3                                 7            685                         .
88 8878087 088888870                  0           -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                          CC
588T-0866                                                               56.           5.-6-88   588    88   86.4.'                                                                         8   3-                       51        86           8-
E em, -----                                         109.7 ~ ~~~~~~~ 0t.                                        88308888                                     48           57          8.            78          8  8         88
8888088 8888 802                       -              8            0                                      8668 88888/83880 778                          37 0          88 5        48 5         80  8 IT7.......56         86 83
668    60088   68511                                                               158668880   8:88    3                                                                      57          8            58 8         48.8         88 W             2 5 
168    071880887888  09'-00jS$88                                       168.9        155.3                                      684  8,170          0827788
OF -R.1 U.T-ILI  EC.-I-S III              0           o     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ 886  83'80                                          7  '         8           4   8         840           2           7 
sumi                                                                                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~161085888  088808  0868888    -84



- 24-
ANNEX I
Page 6
OFFICIAL LENiDING TO HONDURAS BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-79
(in millions of constant FY79 US dollars) /1
IBRD/IDA    IDB       CABEI /2    AID        TOTAL
Transport                    104.0         38.2      113.5          -      255.7
Power                        121.0         77.0       69.2       10.6      277.8
Education                     13.6         20.7          -       10.2       44.5
Health                            -         7.3                     . 4       7.7
Housing                          -         14.1          -        1.3        15.4
Agriculture                   32.1         75.9       12.8       29.2       150.0
Manufacturing                 15.0         91.9       12.5        4.2       123.6
Water and Sewerage                -        56.9        6.5           -       63.4
Other                         19.5          2.5        9.9       34.6       66.5
305.2       384.5      224.4        90.5   1,004.6
/1    IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
/2    Excludes operations with the private sector.



- 25 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  1/ (Net of Cancellations)
(As of March 31, 1980) 2/
Loan or
Credit                                                       US$ Million Amount
No.   Year        Borrower             Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eighteen loans and credits fully disbursed    61.1   41.1
841     1972  Emp. Nacional de        Generation and   12.3       -        0.8
Energia Electrica    Transmission
896     1973  Honduras                Roads             18.8      -        0.1
954     1974  Honduras                Education          3.0      -        0.6
1081    1975  Emp. Nacional de        Generation and
Energia Electrica    Transmission    35.0         -       0.5
628     1976  Honduras                Agricultural
Credit             -    14.0        5.5
1341/2  1976  Honduras               Highways           35.0      -       14.1
1395/6  1977  Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria  Ports               12.0      -       3.0
777     1978  Honduras                Education           -      5.0       4.9
1576    1978  Honduras               Regional
Development      10.5      -        9.4
1629    1978  Emp. Nacional de
Energia Electrica   Power               30.5      -      20.4
1659    1979  Honduras                Industrial Cr.   15.0       -       14.9
1673    1979  Honduras               Tourism            19.5      -       19.3
1805 3/ 1980  Emp. Nacional de
Energia Electrica   Power              105.0      -     105.0
989 4/ 1980  Honduras               Power                 -   20.0       20.0
Total                                   357.7   80.1
of which has been repaid                30.3    1.1
Total now outstanding                  327.4    79.0
Amount sold                  4.5
of which has been repaid  3.4           1.1       -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA 1/                            326.3    79.0
Total undisbursed                      188.1    30.4    218.5
1/   Including exchange adjustment.
2/   Does not include Loan 1833 (US$20.0 million) and Credit 1005 (US$5.0 million)
approved April 17, 1980, for Second Agricultural Credit Project.
3/   Not yet effective.
4/   Approved, but not signed until April 10, 1980 and not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year                  Obligor      Type of Business    Loan    Equity   Total
1964/66        Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A. (ECCASA)           Tannery          0.30    0.08      0.38
1969/70        Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)             Pulp and Paper       -      0.08      0.08
1978           Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V.             Textiles        9.00    1.00    10.00
Total gross commitments                   9.30    1.16    10.46
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                                6.30    0.16       6.46
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                   3.00    1.00       4.00
Total undisbursed                           -        -



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 841   Fifth Power Project:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
About 90 percent of the project, which included 26 MW of
diesels, an interconnection line to Nicaragua, a load
dispatch system, studies and training, has been completed.
Its full completion will be delayed until mid-1981 due to
slow preparation of the load dispatch system and the addition
of a geothermal resource study. Project costs have increased
by 14.3 percent (about US$2.3 million), to be financed by a
loan from the OPEC Special Fund and internal cash generation
of the Borrower.
Ln. 896   Sixth Highway Project:  US$18.8 million Loan of May 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project's main objectives have been achieved. The construc-
tion of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road (the main project component),
the Comayagua-La Libertad Road, 80 km of feeder roads, and
technical and economic studies for 430 km of feeder roads have
been finished. Preparation of engineering studies for 3 rural
roads has delayed completion of project works about two and
one-half years beyond the original schedule.
Ln. 954   First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan of January 9,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
This project (which was financed also by a US$3 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes agricultural
training centers, an extension to the agricultural school at
Catacamas, vocational training centers at San Pedro Sula and
Tegucigalpa and teacher training facilities. These project
elements are all substantially completed. The small amount of
remaining funds has been committed for equipment and furniture
for the Catacamas school.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 1081  Sixth Power Project:  US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
This project includes the 46 MW extension of the Rio Lindo
hydroelectric plant, distribution system improvements, rural
electrification works, studies and training. The plant
extension went into operation ahead of schedule. Some
US$1.1 million of the savings under the loan, realized from
lower than expected steel prices and other cost reductions,
are being used, with Bank approval, to finance part of the
extension of 35 kV lines to serve rural areas in western
Honduras from the Nispero power plant. This project is
expected to be completed by 1981, two years later than
originally estimated.
Cr. 628   First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 million Credit of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily. All credit funds were committed ahead of schedule
by the end of 1979. Difficulties in recruiting suitable
internationally experienced technicians, who have now all been
hired, have resulted in slower disbursements than forecast for
technical assistance operations.
Ln. 1341/ Seventh Highway Project: US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342 US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with construction
works ahead of schedule and of good quality. Due to heavy
rainfall, additional protection works are planned for a portion
of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas road.  Procurement of
maintenance equipment is 90 percent completed; consultants in
maintenance operations have been retained and their technical
assistance is progressing well. Preparation of the Highway
Master Plan is complete.



- 29 -
ANNEX TI
Page 5
Ln. 1395/ Third Port Project: US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396 million on Third Window Terms) of April 22, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
This project (which was financed also by a US$5.0 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes the construction
of Puerto Castilla on the north coast and the expansion of San
Lorenzo in the south. The new facilities at San Lorenzo have
been put into operation. The civil works contractors at Puerto
Castilla are about twelve months behind schedule, mainly
because of failures in key equipment and delays in obtaining
proper spares and making an effective start on pile driving.
The contractors recently stopped work, and a proposal by the
Borrower to change contractors is under review within the Bank.
Cr. 777   Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Credit of April 6,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Disbursements have been delayed by procurement difficulties
but the construction of the rural primary schools has begun.
Bidding for construction of the forestry school has begun.
Design of the agriculture school is completed and bidding
is expected to start shortly. Specialists in school mapping
and rural education are being recruited, and the in-service
teacher training program is under preparation.
Ln. 1576  Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 million Loan of
June 16, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1978;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The Government has established the project unit and appointed
its staff and other officers required for the project. The
special revolving fund is now operating and procurement docu-
ments have been approved by the Bank. Three training courses
have already been carried out, and a research program is being
implemented. Credit operations and road construction and
maintenance have begun.
Ln. 1629  Nispero Power Project:  US$30.5 million Loan of December 15,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Major equipment components for this project have already been
ordered. Most of the consultants have already been engaged
and the main civil works contractor has begun operations.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. 1659  Industrial Credit Prolect:  US$15.0 million Loan of March 8,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 5, 1979: Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The new Industrial Development Fund has been established and
capitalized; its initial staff has been recruited. Participa-
tion agreements have been signed with CODHEFOR and a number
of commercial banks. The Bank has approved 10 subprojects.
Ln. 1673  Tourism Development Project:  US$19.5 million Loan of June 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: November 8, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The foreign experts and their local counterparts have been
hired and interagency agreements for project implementation
have been signed. One subloan for the improvement of an
existing hotel has been approved.
Ln. 1805  El Cajon Power Project:  US$105.0 million Loan of March 27, 1980,
Cr.  989  and US$20.0 million Credit of April 10, 1980; Terminal Date for
Effectiveness: July 29, 1980 for Loan and August 12, 1980 for
Credit: Closing Date: February 28, 1987.
The Borrower is in the process of fulfilling the conditions of
effectiveness.
Ln. 1833  Second Agricultural Credit Project:  US$20.0 million Loan and
Cr. 1005  US$5.0 million Credit of April 18, 1980; Terminal Date for
Effectiveness: July 22, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Borrower is in the process of fulfilling the conditions
of effectiveness.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
HONDURAS
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation and Pre-Appraisal
(i)  First discussions with Government:  November 1978
(ii)  Bank identification mission:          August 1979
(iii)  Preparation by Government:            August 1979-January 1980
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:                January 1980
(c)  Negotiations Completed:                    April 24, 1980
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                 October 1, 1980
Section II: Special IBRD Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed that:
(i) It would, no later than October 1, 1980, begin to carry out its
program to reorganize the energy sector (paragraph 32);
(ii) DGMH would be adequately staffed to execute the project and
provide necessary counterpart personnel to the foreign experts
(paragraph 59);
(iii) It would present to the Bank for comment, no later than December 31,
1980, its proposals, based on the consultants' recommendations, for
necessary revisions to the petroleum law and DGMH's accounting and
auditing procedures, and thereafter would undertake such revisions
which are required to promote petroleum exploration in Honduras
(paragraph 59);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv)  It would complete the petroleum price/taxation and alternate
energy sources studies no later than March 31, 1981, and
promptly thereafter present the studies, along with a statement
of its proposed actions thereon, to the Bank for comment
(paragraph 59); and
(v)  The proceeds of the sales of an index tape and consultants'
report on seismic shot points data would be placed in a special
account and used exclusively for energy sector surveys and studies
until December 31, 1985 (paragraph 59).



IBRD 14843
i: F  ,:899 G                                     99                       99                       09 0. ;0  , \ *33  ,i i  . -   S?'     3S  d4'    93'                       92o                       01                       80              FEBRUARY 1930
2 ~ ~    ~      ~     ~    ~       0 -C;                                                                                                                              $,,S         .,9-,;-  i I 
17'
i3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                    i
\ 7 ' 5gL'i t t t E i : L j; __, .......... ) , <.,V , - EOG~~~~~~~~~~~vo-,.......                                                                                                                                                 16
<Gtv S O La v IDnV rO / t ! G R A C | A S X ) >:, ............................. *. *. .....
SANTA  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R     
r;'> 9 z~~~~T                                                                                                   A    DIOSf           F6iz-'TI 165
;i;-f:   C1 COAYGA    </......  HODURAS
PETROLEUM  EXPLORATION
.OCOTEPE               'INTIBUCA t        - C)MAYAU  f.uEi=5t  s:s,3=7 
aOCLOETMFpECRU^E  LA    [ A PA24FANgOJ<                                                                                                                                                                                             ;;4;2t$    ; T. sco)  9 B-  S0' 7
<  LA  PAZ            C GAEL PAAS
S A4LVADOR                                                                                                                                                                     CA I 0(1                              ,       0     0SA               5-A,. |
9000009                          o  ploI-o9NAT001NAL RESERVES AREAS
~~~~5CHOL                                                                                  a' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200 METER DEPTH LINE
I 5             ;         290      r150      20e0                                   _ -   MAIHIGHVAYl. HIGHWAYS
9.800(2990 -fi    Oe  l     5           KLMIP   :.      ;j\ ij__ rEPARTMENT bOUNDARIES               13--                        4'1i\ RART   BOUNDARIES
r  2-CLa,7mm                                                                           rws  3   tLulJmradialL                      I          ~             --   2ItTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR ES           P- fP cCJ-
0 i9-83<   s8t43  G 05 |   iS  S A 7: 0            95'   :  \   . | ;  i n Sb                          83-                      827                                                                         D 



