TMTCIAL       LOAN NUMBER 1861 110
Loan Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1861 HO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             45-             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (her2nafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Prea-tble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DGMH" means "Direcci6n General de Minas e Hidrocar-
buros", the General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons of the
Borrower and such term includes any successor thereto;
(b) "CONSUPLANE" means "Consejo Superior de Planificaci6n
Econ6mica", the Economic Planning Council of the Borrower and
such term includes any successor thereto; and
(c) "Ministerio" means "Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho
de Economia", the Ministry of Economy of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section. 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
three million dollars ($3,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described irn Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and equipment to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with local
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to t'he Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
t-ime to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1st and September 1st in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out: (a) through DGMH,
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project; (b) through Ministerio, Part
E.1; and (c) through CONSUPLANE, Part E.2, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and petroleum exploration practices, and


﻿- 3 -
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, staff, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall employ, in adequate
numbers, qualified counterpart personnel to work with the consul-
tants and experts referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (i) all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion; and
(ii) all proceeds obtained from selling the index tapes and
reports prepared under the Project shall be recorded in a
separate account and be used exclusively until December 31, 1985
by DGMH to finance surveys and studies in the energy sector.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work schedules for the Pro-
ject, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services finauced out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; and (ii) shall
furnish to the Bank quarterly and annual reports on the execution
of the Project containing all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the priceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all facilities, installations, sites, works, property and
equipment of the Borrower and its agencies necessary for the
Project and any relevant data, studies, records and documents.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
March 31, 1981, carry out the studies included under Part E of the
Project.
(b) Promptly upon its completion, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank for its review and comment a copy of each of the
studies included under the Project and a statement of the Bor-
rower's proposed actions resulting therefrom.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1980, furnish to the Bank for comment: (i) the results of
the review of the Borrower's legislative instruments for the
petroleum sector, to be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project,
and the proposed revisions to such legislative instruments result-
ing from such review; and (ii) the proposed petroleum accounting
a-nd auditing procedures to be established under Part A.4 of the
Project;
(b) to the extent needed to promote petroleum exploration
in the Borrower's territory, revise such legislative instruments
taking into account the recommendations resulting from such review
and the Bank's comments thereon; and
(c) establish such accounting and auditing procedures after
having afforded the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
thereon, and thereafter maintain such procedures.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defiaed), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges- on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other char, ,s on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets ccisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any, lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adepuate to reflect in accordance with


﻿-6-
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower respotzible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) As part of the foregoing, the Borrower shall establish
and maintain for DGMH separate accounts, including the one refer-
red to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, to be used exclu-
sively for the Project and shall cause to be registered in such
accounts all receipts and payments made for or in connection with
the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred
to in paragraph (b) above for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
ance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
.Section 4.03. Starting not later than October 1, 1980
the Borrower shall carry out a program, satisfactory to the Bank,
aimed at improving the administrative organization of its energy
sector.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01 The date            gcyo      , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pi'blico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
HACIENDA
Tegucigalpa
Honduras
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the ;arties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By,O         -
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               1,590,000           100% of foreign
services                                      expenditures
(2) Equipment and                110,000           100% of for-
materials                                     eign expendi-
tures and 80%
of local ex-
penditures
(3) Computer                     490,000           100% of forcign
processing                                    expenditures
(4) Training                      30,000           100% of foreign
expenses                                      expenditures
(5) Studies under                120,0' 0          100% of for-
Part E of the                                 eign expendi-
Project                                       tures
(6) Unallocated                  660,000
TOTAL      3,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the
term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$350,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after March 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 11 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
strengthening DGMH, reviewing its petroleum laws, establishing
appropriate bidding procedures for oil permits and improving its
energy planning capacity and to support the Borrower's efforts to
accelerate oil exploration by attracting experienced oil com-
panies.
Part A:
1.   Organization, compilation and interpretation of geologi-
cal and geophysical information and related specialized studies.
2.   Review of the legislative instruments of the Borrower
for the petroleum sector and preparation of a model contract and
model bidding procedures, for participation of oil companies in
exploration and production activities in Honduras.
3.   Review of procedures for negotiating oil permits
with oil companies and monitoring their work.
. 4.   Establishment of a modern petroleum accounting and
auditing system for DGMH.
Part B:
Training of selected management personnel and professional
staff of DGMH in petroleum exploration techniques, laboratory
procedures and related activities through on-the-job training,
and seminars and intensive courses abroad.
Part C:
Computer processing of: (a) seismic profiles in order
to improve offshore geologic interpretations; (b) LANDSAT remote
sensing imagery; and (c) digitized seismic lines data (index
tapes).
Part D:
Acquisition and utilization of office and laboratory equip-
ment and of laboratory materials for DGMH.


﻿- 13 -
Part E:
1.   Study and evaluation of the Borrower's current petroleum
pricing and taxation practices.
2.   Review of studies being carried out by the Borrower
on alternate energy sources for meeting the Borrower's future
needs in the energy field.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1986
through   September 1, 2000                100,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                        2.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                 4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                 6.60%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                 7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                 8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 19ra.
FOR SECRETARY


