Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22430
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-45210; COFN-04330)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 95.50 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR A
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADUSTMENT LOAN
June 29, 2001
Private and Financial Sectors Development Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev
BGN 1 = US$ 0.46
US$ 1 = BGN 2.16
GOVERNMENT
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL                 Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
BNB                  Bulgarian National Bank
BDZ                  Bulgarian State Railways
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
COM                  Council of Ministers
FESAL                Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FESAP                Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
JBIC                 Japan Bank for International Cooperation
NEK                  National Electricity Company
PA                   Privatization Agency
PATA                 Privatization Advisors and Transaction Agents
SOE                  State Owned Enterprises
SPAL                 Social Protection Adjustment Loan
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:    Paul J. Siegelbaumn
Task Team Leader/Task Manager    Albert F. Martinez



BULGARIA
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan II
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               8
6. Sustainability                                                                   9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 10
9. Partner Comments                                                                12
10. Additional Information                                                         15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              24






Project ID: P008317                                       Project Name: Financial Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan II
Team Leader: Albert Martinez                              TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR7 Tape: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Financial Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan II  L/C/TF Number: SCL-45210;
COFN-04330
Country/Department: BULGARIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FF - Financial Adjustment; FS - Financial Sector
Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/08/98                                Effective:  12/10/99          12/10/99
Appraisal:  06/28/99                                  MTR:
Approval:  12/02/99                                Closing: 03/31/2000          03/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA/COUNCIL OF MINISTERS/BULGARIAN
NATIONAL BANK
Other Partners:  JAPAN BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                         Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:      Yasuo Izumi                               Yasuo Izumi
Team Leader at ICR:   Albert F. Martinez                       Albert F. Martinez
ICR Primary Autthor:   Albert F. Martinez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Suistainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrowver Peifornmance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The general objective of the loan was to sustain implementation of essential structural reforms



while continuing to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment. The specific objectives were: (a)
accelerating the privatization or liquidation of SOEs; (b) continuing banking reform focusing on the
privatization of banks and upgrading of supervision capacity; (c) maintaining financial discipline in the
enterprise sector; and (d) restructuring the energy sector.
The general and specific objectives of FESAL II were fully consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy discussed by the Board on April 28, 1998. The CAS focused on supporting Government efforts to
underpin progress in macroeconomic stabilization with durable structural reforms, with priority given to
accelerating the reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions in the general or specific objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
FESAL II had four main components: (a) privatization and liquidation of SOEs; (b) maintenance
of financial discipline; (c) reform of the banking sector; and (d) restructuring of the energy sector. The
components were part of the Government's Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (FESAP)
which was to be supported by three interconnected FESALs as envisioned in the CAS. FESAL I was a one
tranche operation approved on October 30, 1997 and was effective on February 10, 1998. FESAL II was
also designed as a one tranche operation where all actions had to be completed prior to Board presentation.
However, FESAL II also listed future actions which would be undertaken by the Government as part of the
FESAP, progress in which would be supported by a planned FESAL III. The components below contain
both the actions completed as conditionalities for FESAL II as well as future actions to be undertaken by
the Government.
1. Privatization and Liquidation of SOEs
A. Actions Prior to Board
e   Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings of SOEs equivalent to at least 80 percent of
the long term assets of SOEs in the Privatization Advisors and Transaction Agents (PATA) Program.
*   Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings of SOEs equivalent to at least 30 percent of
the long term assets of SOEs in the Pool Privatization Program.
*   Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings of SOEs equivalent to at least 85 percent of
the long term assets of SOEs under the responsibility of the PA.
*   Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings of small SOEs equivalent to at least 80
percent of the long term assets of small SOEs under the responsibility of the line ministries as of June
30, 1999.
*   Cessation of operations of SOEs under liquidation as of June 30, 1999 with the exception of two
SOEs.
*  Completion of sale to private owners of assets of at least 140 out of the 280 SOEs under liquidation.
*   Sale of residual share packages in at least 50 percent of enterprises privatized as of June 30, 1999.
B. Actions During Next 18 Months
* By March 31, 2000, completion of the PATA program.
*   By March 31, 2000, completion of the Pool Privatization Program (covering all eight pools).
*  By March 31, 2000, completion of the sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings of all
SOEs under the responsibility of the PA.
-2 -



* By March 31, 2000, completion of the sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings of all
SOEs whose privatization mandate was transferred by the PA to the line ministries in July 1999.
* Cessation of operations of all SOEs under liquidation.
* By December 31, 2000, completion of sale to private sector of assets of SOEs under liquidation as of
June 30, 2000.
* By December 31, 2000, sale of the residual shares of the State in all enterprises privatized as of June
30, 2000.
* Starting January 2000, begin the process of privatization of SOE,s, or components of large SOEs, in
the energy, transport and infrastructure sectors.
II. Imposing Financial Discipline on the Enterprise Sector
A. Actions Prior to Board
* Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings of all Group B SOEs.
*   Increase in tariffs of District Heating Companies (DHCs). Submission of long term plans for the
DHCs, acceptable to the Bank.
* Sale or closure of eight plants of Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ).
* Submission of a restructuring plan for BDZ acceptable to the Bank. Implementation of restructuring
plan for BDZ.
* Submission of privatization or liquidation plans, acceptable to the Bank, for seven collieries from the
coal mining companies and the briquette factory under Group A of the Isolation Program.
*   Continued implementation of the collection policies of Bulgargaz.
* Submission of a restructuring plan for Bulgargaz acceptable to the Bank.
* No increase in the arrears to the National Electricity Company (NEK) from the level as of June 30,
1999.
- Second reading by Parliament of a Tax Procedure Code acceptable to the Bank which provides for
improvements in the ability to deal with enterprises in arrears.
e Submission to Parliament of a Social Security Code acceptable to the Bank which provides for
improvements in the ability of the National Social Security Institute (NSSI) to deal with enterprises in
arrears.
3 Creation by the Council of Ministers (COM) of a unit under the COM which will set standards, train,
select, remove, and generally supervise liquidators of SOEs.
* Submission to the Parliament of amendments, acceptable to the Bank, to the Commercial Code that
would result in faster, more efficient, and more transparent wind up or sale of SOEs through the court
system. Setting up of an inter-ministerial commission to analyze and recommend amendments to the
current insolvency legislation to reform the court insolvency procedures and structure.
B. Actions During Next 18 Months
* By June 30, 2000, completion of sale of all Group B SOEs under liquidation.
*   Implementation of programs for improving efficiency, collection, restructuring and privatization of
DHCs agreed with the Bank.
* By December 31, 1999, sale or closure of additional five plants of BDZ.
* By December 31, 2000, privatization of viable coal mining SOE,s and cessation of operations of
nonviable mines.
* No increase in arrears to Bulgargaz from the level as of June 30, 1999.
* Implementation of Bulgargaz restructuring plan. By March 31, 2000, issuance of international tenders
for private regional gas distribution companies.
* Continued implementation of the collection policies of NEK.
* By January 1, 2000, establishment of an Agency for Collection of State Claims to deal with the
- 3-



securing and collection of State receivables, including arrears.
* Implementation of the Tax Procedure Code.
* Implementation of the Social Security Code.
* Enforcement of selection and performance standards for liquidators.
* Establishment of a system, acceptable to the Bank, for monitoring financial discipline and fiscal risk in
the enterprise sector.
II. Reforming the Banking System
A. Actions Prior to Board
* Completion of the privatization transaction, including full payment, in the sale of Postbank.
*   Signing of share purchase agreement between BCC and Societe General in the sale of Expressbank,
including a 10 percent downpayment.
* Review of bid submissions from interested private buyers in the sale of Hebrosbank.
* Issuance of Invitation to Bid in the sale of Bulbank.
*   Approval of Information Memorandum and start of the marketing process in the sale of Biochim.
* Submission of medium term strategy for SSB, acceptable to the Bank.
* Enforcement of all prudential regulations.
* Passage of amendments to Banking Law dealing with existing insolvent banks.
. Start of the auction process which will enable the Ministry of Finance to take over the assets of eleven
closed banks.
- Monitoring by BNB of the lending portfolio of the remaining public sector banks, including CCB,
Business Promotion Bank, and the Municipality Bank of Sofia.
* No increase in the lending portfolio of CCB from the level of June 30, 1999, until CCB has met the
capital adequacy requirements under the prudential regulations issued by BNB.
3 No increase in the equity of CCB through the infusion of public resources.
B. Actions During Next 18 Months
3 By December 31, 1999, completion of the privatization transaction of Expressbank.
• By March 31, 2000, completion of the privatization transaction of one more public sector bank.
9 By June 30, 2000, completion of the privatization transactions of two more public sector banks.
v Implementation of MOU between the State Savings Bank (SSB) and BNB.
* Implementation of SSB privatization strategy starting January 2001.
* By March 31, 2000, adoption of a regulation establishing consolidated supervision.
*   By March 31, 2000, submission of legislative provisions to Parliament to enable the Deposit Insurance
Fund to administer newly closed banks.
* By December 31, 1999, complete the takeover of the assets of eleven closed banks by the Ministry of
Finance.
* By June 30, 2000, reduction of the direct and indirect share of the Government in the equity of Central
Cooperative Bank to 33 percent or less.
* No increase in the lending portfolio of CCB from the level of June 30, 1999, until CCB has met the
capital adequacy requirements under the prudential regulations issued by BNB.
* No increase in the equity of CCB through the infusion of public resources.
IV. Restructuring the Energy Sector
A. Actions Prior to Board
* Passage of Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency.
* Establishment of a State Commission for Energy Regulation and appointment of commissioners.
- 4 -



* Increase in electricity prices.
*   Completion of accounting separation of generation, transmission, and distribution functions of NEK.
B. Actons During Next 18 Months
* By March 31, 2000, adoption by the Council of Ministers of all regulations envisaged in the Law on
Energy and Energy Efficiency.
* Starting 2000, implementation of privatization of different components of the energy sector according
to a plan agreed with the Bank.
* By December 31, 1999, establishment of electricity distribution companies.
* By June 30, 2000, establishment of generation and transmission companies.
* Continued implementation of three year action plan for the restructuring of the energy sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
None
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no QAG review at entry. The ICR rates the quality at entry as satisfactory because: (a) the
design was consistent with the CAS and addressed the pressing issues at that time of preparation; (b) there
was excellent collaboration between the Bank and the Govermment/13NB; (c) there was optimal use of
country office resources and extensive donor participation; and (d) the loan produced satisfactory outcomes
based on the stated development objectives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The main objectives as specified in the President's Report have been substantially achieved.
More specifically, the actions under Schedule 3 of the loan agreement and detailed in Section 4.11 and
Annex 2 of the President's Report have been completed prior to Board presentation. The actions completed
under FESAL II built upon those in FESAL I and represented a critical mass of structural reforms
necessary to support the macroeconomic stabilization program and enable the Government to begin the
second generation of reforms thus deepening the transition to a market economy. In addition, the
Government articulated in the LDP the future actions to be completed under its FESAP, and by end-2000,
the Govemment has completed or achieved substantial progress in most of these actions. Section 4. 2
below details the main accomplishments under FESAL II and describes the status of the post-FESAL II
reforms as articulated in the LDP.
The favorable outcomes are also reflected in several economic indicators. Real GDP growth in
2000 was 5.8 percent, compared to 3.5 percent and 2.4 percent in 1998 and 1999 respectively and negative
growth rates in 1996 and 1997. The private sector was a major factor in contributing to growth, with
private sector gross value added increasing by 14.2 percent in 2000. The share of the private sector in
GDP was 61 percent in 2000, approaching those of the advanced transition economies. Exports also grew
by 24 percent in 2000. Foreign direct investment was almost US$ 1 billion in 2000, compared to an annual
average of US$ 100 million in 1995-96 and US$ 560 million in 1997-99. Credit to the private sector as a
percentage of total domestic credit has increased from 30 percent in 1995 to 80 percent in 2000.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Privatization or Liquidation of State Owned Enterprises
- 5-



The Government made substantial gains in divesting State assets during the preparation stage
of FESAL II and achieved the FESAL II conditionality by divesting at least 75 percent of the
non-energy and non-infrastructure SOEs measured by fixed assets. The acceleration of the divestiture
of SOEs was identified in the CAS as a critical component of the structural reforms needed to support the
stabilization program. While the process of divestiture began in the early 1 990s, the process was marked
by stops and starts such that when FESAL I went to the Board in September 1997, less than 30 percent of
non-energy and non-infrastructure SOE assets had been divested. By the time FESAL II went to the Board
in December 1999, the Government had divested at least 75 percent of the assets of non-energy and
non-infrastructure SOEs. The Government had divested more assets during the period 1998-99 than during
the period between 1991-97. In addition, as a condition for FESAL II Board, the Govermment sold 50
percent of the residual shares of enterprises privatized as of June 30, 1999.
The pace of privatization post-FESAL H was slower than envisioned in the LDP, although by
end-2000 about 90 percent of the non-energy and non-infrastructure SOE assets have been divested.
There were major privatization transactions that were started but not completed. The negotiations for the
sale of the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company, which were ongoing for about 15 months, fell through
and a new privatization strategy is now being designed. The attempt to privatize Bulgartabac - the large
tobacco holding company - failed due to covenants relating to the protection of the tobacco growing
industry, and a new strategy is being developed. The successful privatization of these two companies
would have brought the percentage of non-energy and non-infrastructure assets privatized to about 95
percent. Another factor was a reshuffle in the Government in early 2000 which led to a review of the
privatization program and the subsequent Parliamentary approval of amendments in the Privatization Law
to improve transparency of the process. This process of review and amendments of the Privatization Law
slowed the privatization effort somewhat. Nonetheless, there is firm Government commitment to the
privatization program as reflected by the fact that by end-2000, 90 percent of non-energy and
non-infrastructure SOE assets have been divested and 70 percent of the residual shares of enteprises
privatized as of mid-2000 have been sold.
As a conditionality of FESAL II, the Government set the preconditions for the privatization
program covering the energy and infrastructure sectors. The Government put in place the legal and
regulatory framework for energy restructuring, including the unbundling and privatization of the National
Electricity Company. FESAL II also required the submission of long term plans for District Heating
Companies (DHCs)and the Bulgarian National Railways (BDZ). Parliament has approved the strategies
for restructuring DHCs and BDZ, which included private sector participation components. In the water
sector, preparations were made for private sector concessions covering the water utilities in two of the
largest municipalities. Finally, the privatization of the viable coal mining companies has started while
bankruptcy procedures for the nonviable mining companies have been initiated.
Imposing Financial Discipline on SOEs
The Government successfully fulfilled the FESAL II conditionality of divesting all of the 48
non-energy and non-infrastructure SOEs in the Isolation Program, which covered the largest loss
makers in the enterprise sector. FESAL II required that all of these 48 SOEs exit the program though
privatization, liquidation, or bankruptcy procedures. These enterprises included the largest steel mill, the
largest mining company, the largest shipyard, and the airline company. Of these 48 SOEs, 32 were
privatized, 13 were liquidated, and 3 were placed under bankruptcy proceedings. The exit of these SOEs
significantly reduced the risk of Government funding of SOE losses and increased the chances of successful
- 6 -



restructuring of the privatized enterprises.
The Isolation Program, which was established under FESAL I, also covered 30 loss-making
energy and infrastructure SOEs, which were required to implement financial restructuring plans, but
the initial success of efforts to stem losses of these SOEs could not be sustained post-FESAL II
without fundamental restructuring including privatization of certain operations. As a conditionality of
FESAL II, many of the loss-making energy and infrastructure SOEs increased tariffs and divested non-core
assets which improved their financial results. However, after the end of the Isolation Program in mid-1999,
the losses for district heating and railways began to increase. This was mainly due to the lack of
substantial progress in the fundamental restructuring of the district heating and railways sectors. For this
reason, FESAL II required the submission of restructuring plans for DHCs, BDZ, and the coal mining
companies, to be implemented under FESAL III.
The Government put in place actions to ensure that the major sources of funds to the SOE
sector - the National Electricity Company, the gas company (Bulgargaz), the tax office, the National
Social Security Institute, and the banking system, especially the state owned banks - imposed financial
discipline on SOEs. The Council of Ministers passed a resolution that the National Electricity Company
and Bulgargaz would strictly enforce their receivables policies by suspending deliveries to enterprises that
were in arrears. The Government also strengthened the collection capabilities of both the tax office and the
National Social Security Institute through the passage of the Tax Procedure Code and the Social Security
Code. A collections office was also established at the Ministry of Finance to represent the Government in
collection and bankruptcy cases. In addition, the privatization of most of the major state owned banks
reduced lending to SOEs. These supply side actions have generally been successful in imposing financial
discipline on SOEs.
The Government initiated reforms to improve the the liquidation process for SOEs and court
administered insolvency procedures. To ensure proper liquidation of SOEs, the Council of Ministers
created a unit under the COM that set standards, train, select, remove and supervise liquidators for SOEs.
In addition, the Government submitted to Parliament proposed amendments to the Commercial Code that
would improve the efficiency and transparency of the insolvency procedures covering all enterprises. The
insolvency related amendments to the Code have been approved. The next step would be institutional
reform of the judicial system, which would be supported by FESAL III.
Reforming the Banking System
The banking reforms under FESAL II focused on the privatization of the state owned banks
to reputable foreign strategic investors, and the conditionalities included the completion of two bank
privatization transactions and the preparation of three other bank privatization transactions. The
privatization transactions for Postbank and Expressbank were completed by the time FESAL II went to
Board. Post-FESAL II, the privatization transctions for Hebrosbank and Bulbank - the largest bank in
Bulgaria - were completed. The negotations for the sale of Biochim Bank fell through, and a new
procedure is under way. By end-2000, the share of the private sector in the banking system had increased
to 86 percent at end-2000 from about 50 percent in mid-1997.
The Bulgarian National Bank continued the process of upgrading its banking supervision
capacity by, inter alia, securing technical assistance in the form of seven full-time and several
part-time foreign advisers. In addition, prudential regulations were improved, including the issuance of
regulations on consolidated supervision. A Strategic Plan for On-site Supervision was approved and
- 7 -



implemented, and the Banking Supervision Department has begun adopting the CAMELS bank rating
system. Off-site supervision has achieved substantial progress in terms of both the information
requirements and analytical work.
The Government and BNB successfully dealt with the problem of lack of progress in the
liqudation of banks that were under court supervised bankruptcy procedures. To expedite the
completion of the bankruptcy process covering closed banks, the Government designed a mechanism by
which the Ministry of Finance took over the assets of 11 closed banks whose liabilities were mainly to the
State, thus enabling these banks to be fully liquidated. In addition, to improve the process of dealing with
insolvent banks in the future, a draft Bank Bankruptcy Law has been submitted to Parliament.
Restructuring the Energy Sector
The Government successfully met the FESAL II conditionalities covering the energy
restructuring component of the loan. The Government actions were able to put in place the preconditions
for restructuring the energy sector by: (a) getting the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency passed by
Parliament; (b) establishing the State Commission for Energy Regulation; and (c) unbundling the National
Electricity Company. In addition, NEK raised electricity prices twice in 1999. The Parliament approved a
District Heating strategy acceptable to the Bank. However, post FESAL II, there were delays in the
implementation of the privatization component of the energy restructuring plan.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
FESAL II supported the establishment of the State Commission for Energy Regulation, the
expansion of the role of the Deposit Insurance Fund with respect to insolvent banks, the creation of a unit
for supervising SOE liquidators, the strengthening of the Enterprise Monitoring Unit in the Ministry of
Finance, the improvement in the collection capabilities of the Tax Office and the National Social Security
Institute, the creation of an Office for Collection of State Claims, and the upgrading the Banking
Supervision Department of the Bulgarian Natiional Bank.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Foreign investor interest in strategic stakes in major privatizations was a critical factor in
implementing the ambitious privatization program. The Kosovo crisis dampened foreign investor interest,
hence slowing the progress in privatization. In addition, foreign investors were initially cautious because of
Bulgaria's uneven record in implementing reforms prior to 1997.
Bulgaria's development partners made important conributions to the the implementation of the
reforms through the financing of technical assistance in the areas of privatization, banking supervision, and
-8 -



isolation program.
There were some delays in the Parliamentary approval of some of the key legislation.
5.2 Factors generally suibject to government control:
The strategies and programs for divesting state owned enterprises and banks were generally
well-designed. The Bank Consolidation Company, in particular, was successful in the sale of state owned
banks to foreign strategic investors, and Bulgaria's bank privatization strategy and implementation should
be considered best practice.
The creation of a Council for Structural Reform improved the coordination effort among different
ministries and government offices in designing and implementing policies.
5.3 Factors generally sutbject to implementing agency control:
The Council for Structural Reform, the Bulgarian National Bank, and the Bank Consolidation
Company had the appropriate commitment and resources to implement the reforms.
5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered highly likely for several reasons. First, the Government had already
undertaken under the FESAL II most of the politically difficult decisions and actions - such as the
liquidation of many large loss making enterprises. Second, FESAL HI planned to support continued
implementation of the FESAP. Third, Bulgaria had an agreed program with the Fund, which
complemented and ensured sustained progress in structural reforms.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank used its most experienced experts in the preparation stage to both design the project as
well as advise the Government. The participation of Bank experts was greatly valued by the Government
and was highly effective. In particular, proactive Bank participation resulted in the jumpstarting of the
bank privatization program which had suffered some delays from the Government's original timetable.
The Country Office successfully coordinated with other development partners. Donor coordination
was a critical success factor since there was no Bank-financed technical assistance project that
accompanied FESAL II. Other aid agencies financed the implementation of the privatization program for
enterprises and bank, the isolation program, and the upgrading of banking supervision capacity.
-9-



Bank coordination with the Fund was relatively smooth and resulted in effective complementarity
of Bank and Fund activities. There was constant communication between both institutions in Bulgaria and
at HQ. Both the Fund and the Bank commented on each other's draft documents and staff from both
institutions were generally invited to Bank and Fund mission meetings.
7.2 Supervision:
There was a small supervision mission a month after the loan approval. Thereafter, the review of
the progress in the FESAP was taken over by the preparation work for FESAL III.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Given that work on the design of the FESAP began with and was supported by FESAL I, there was
adequate preparatory work for FESAL II. In the course of preparing FESAL II, the Government made
numerous adjustments to the privatization program, including several amendments to the Privatization
Law, to take into account experience to date as well as feedback from different potential investors and the
IFIs. The Govemment also leamed from the experience of the first major bank privatization, which took
longer than expected, and used the experience to improve the process of privatizing the other state owned
banks. The Government made several bold decisions with respect to liquidating many non-viable.
enterprises.
7.5 Governmnent implementation performance:
The Government was able to successfully undertake many politically difficult actions, such as the
liquidation of many large loss making enterprises. While the initial FESAL II mission expressed concem
about the delays in the implementation of the FESAP as articulated in the FESAL I loan document, the
Bank and the Government worked towards defining new performance benchmarks to be completed under
FESAL II. These actions were completed with a three month lag given the impact of poor external
conditions on the privatization of large enterprises.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Council for Structural Reform, the Bulgarian National Bank, and the Bank Consolidation
Company were able to implement the reforms under FESAL II successfully.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
With respect to the actions required prior to Board, the Borrower performance was satisfactory. With
respect to the implementation of the FESAP after the loan was approved, most components have moved
forward, albeit with some delays. In particular, there have been delays in the privatization of some of the
large SOEs and in the privatization component of the energy restructuring program.
8. Lessons Learned
- 10 -



The existence of a well-defined multi-year program is a prerequisite to the design and
successful implementation of the FESALs, which are one tranche operations supporting the
completion of critical performance benchmarks and reinforcing Government commitment to sustain
the reforms. The Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program was initially articulated in the
FESAL I Letter of Development Policy and action matrix, which included Government actions to be
accomplished during the 18 month period following the FESAL I Board approval. These future actions in
FESAL I became the basis for the design of FESAL II, which in turn articulated future actions to be
supported by FESAL III.
The use of single tranche adjustment loans - instead of one multi-tranche loan - to support the
Government program was appropriate due to country conditions. FESAL I was approved at a time
when the Government was relatively new, the commitment to completing the program has yet to be
demonstrated, and implementation capacity was not yet fully in place. Having a second FESAL - instead
of a second tranche for the first FESAL - provided flexibility by enabling the Govemrnent and the Bank to
assess the experience in program implementation and to utilize additional information to strengthen the
program. Many of the conditionalities in FESAL II could not have been forseen during the preparation of
FESAL I. FESAL II adjusted some targets to take into account implementation capacity and introduced
new components, specifically the energy restructuring program. This process of adjustment would have
been difficult to do with a multi-tranche single FESAL.
Timely parallel operations prevented overloading the FESALs and optimized the linkages
among the operations, but required good coordination within the country team. The Social Protection
Adjustment Loan and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan focused on reforms that would not have
been dealt with in a comprehensive manner had these been incorporated in the FESALs. The Environment
and Privatization Support Loan also provided a more systematic approach to environmental reforms, at the
same time ensuring that the FESAP took environmental issues into account.
Because of the complementary nature of the content of the FESALs and the Fund program,
coordination between the Bank and Fund was essential. This required good communication both in HQ
and in the field, including timely circulation for comments of draft papers from both institutions.
The FESAL requires on the ground support due to the need for constant communication
between the Government and the Bank in dealing with implementation issues. The FESAL team
included country office staff who monitored implementation progress and worked with the Government
technical staff in resolving certain issues. The participation of country office staff as members of the
FESAL team improved both the quality of the loan as well as the efficiency of the loan preparation.
The lack of accompanying Bank technical assistance loan and the subsequent reliance on
donors required intensive coordination of donor activities. This made the implementation of the actions
required by FESAL II dependent to a great extent on the availablity, timing and quality of donor support.
The country office played a critical role in coordinating donor activities.
Government commitment to the reforms, ownership of the program, and effective
organization are important to the successful implementation of the reforms. The Government that took
over in 1997 was able to sustain implementation of the reforms in the program agreed with the Bank and
the Fund. The Government had ownership of the FESAP. The Council of Structural Reform within the
Council of Ministers was an effective mechanism for coordination of policies and reform implementation.
- 11 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
Republic of Bulgaria
Council of Ministers
Mr. Thomas O'Brien
World Bank Sofia Office
Resident Representative
Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II)
Draft Implementation Completion Report
Dear Mr. O'Brien:
I would like to take this opportunity to extend my appreciation on behalf of the Government of
Bulgaria for the successful cooperation with the World Bank project team during FESAL II preparation
and implementation.
Let me express my consent and support in principle on the findings and conclusions in the draft
FESAL II ICR that was submitted to us. On the whole, the project accomplished the aims set by the
government, as it was a well developed, appropriate and constructive project.
Through the World Bank and IMF supported economic program, Bulgaria managed to overcome
the economic and financial crisis of 1996 and beginning of 1997, whereby the Government of Bulgaria
successfully stabilized and renewed the much delayed structural reforms. Moreover, the support provided
by the Bank through FESAL II has been exceptionally well-timed bearing in mind the financial tension in
the country during the crisis in Kosovo in 1999.
The achieved results for the period 1997 - 2000 are promising, and specifically translate into the following:
-     Macroeconomic stability;
-     Economic growth of 12.1% for the period. The economic growth rate in 2000 was 5.8%,
which is the highest in the last 10 years;
-     Per capita income increased from US$800 in 1991 and US$1,170 in 1997 to US$1,500
in 2000;
-     Acceleration of privatization, whereby by end 2000 the share of the privatized assets
reached 77.5% of the assets slated for privatization (infrastructure excluded).
-     Liquidation accounts for 10.8% of the privatizable assets.
-     Land restitution was completed in 2000.
-     The private sector share in GDP grew from 50% in 1997 to 70% in mid-2000.
-     At end 2000 the state debt declined to 80%.
In particular, the implementation of the priorities set out under FESAL I1, i.e. speeding up the
privatization of state-owned enterprises and banks, creation of an appropriate environment for restructuring
and effective management, continuing the banking reform, sustaining the financial discipline in the
remaining state-owned enterprises, as well as energy sector restructuring, supported the achievement of the
-12 -



set goals by the government for stepping up and deepening the transilion to a market economy.
Finally, I would like to extend my firm belief in the future successful cooperation with the World
Bank which cooperation will assist Bulgaria on its way to EU accession.
Peter Jotev
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy
Attachment
CBC, PA and MOF Statements
ATTACHMENT
Ministry of Finance
Ms. Juliana Nikolova
Director of European Integration
and Relations with IFIs Directorate
Council of Ministers
Ref: 02.17-49 dated 5 June 2001
Dear Ms. Nikolova:
In response to the draft FESAL 11 ICR that was submitted to use we would like to inform you that
the Ministry of Finance finds the report an accurate reflection of the status of compliance with
commitments, within the priorities and authority of the Ministry. We hereby advise that we have no
comments or suggestions with respect to the text of the Bank report.
(signature)
Plamen Oresharsky
Deputy Minister
PRIVATIZATION AGENCY
Ms. Juliana Nikolova
Director of European Integration
and Relations with IFIs Directorate
Council of Ministers
Dear Ms. Nikolova:
We have no significant comments on the draft document. In the privatization section, the main
targets have been met, as the report states.
(signature)
- 13-



Levon Hampartsumian
Executive Director
MEMORANDUM
To:   Youliana Nikolova
Director of European Integration
and Relations with International Institutions Directorate
Council of Ministers
From: Alan Hawkins
Senior Advisor to Bank Consolidation Company
and Ministry of Economy
Subject:FESAL II Evaluation - Comments
Date: June 8, 2001
As requested, I offer the following comments regarding the May 29th 2001 evaluation of the
World Bank's FESAL II program in Bulgaria:
Generally, I find the evaluation accurate and do not have any major comments. I did notice a
discrepancy between Page 7 of the narrative and Annex 1 (page 14) regarding the private percentage of the
banking sector. Page 7 indicates 86% of the banking sector is private while Annex I (page 14) indicates it
is 80%.
With regard to Item 9 (Borrower/Implementing Agency Comments), I am not sure if you want me
to add anything on behalf of the Bank Consolidation Company but, just in case, I will include the
following. However, you should clear these comments with Mr. Jotev before including in your response to
the World Bank.
Bank Consolidation Company Comments:
The Bank Consolidation Company ("BCC") wishes to thank the staff of the World Bank ("Bank")
for the excellent professionalism they have exhibited in working the BCC during the term of FESAL II.
We believe one of the most important "lessons learned" (not included in Section 8 of this report) is that it is
almost impossible to get arbitrary deadlines for privatizing the banking sector. Early on in our relationship
with the World Bank under FESAL I, too much focus was placed on specific deadlines for privatizing the
banks. However, it quickly became obvious that the specific "timing" of a bank sale was dependent on
many external market factors beyond the control of the BCC. Under FESAL II, we worked very closely
with the Bank staff in setting target dates for actions to be taken by BCC necessary to achieve a successful
privatization, i.e. issuing the tender for the sale. Once the tender was issued, the timing of the ultimate sale
depended more on the potential acquirers that the BCC. It was often difficult to attract high quality
strategic investors quickly and we recognized the need for a flexible approach in setting deadlines for
offers. We believe allowing adequate marketing time, so as to achieve a competitive bidding procedure
with participation by reputable foreign banks and financial institutions, was the primary reason for our
successful efforts.
- 14 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
Date: June 28, 2001
Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JBIC's comment on FESAL II
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Draft
General Comment:
We share the Bank's observation and view that the main objectives of this loan, underpinning
progress in macroeconomic stabilization, were mostly achieved by the appropriate selection of
policy matrix directed to the enterprise and financial sectors' reform. It should be emphasized
that during the period of this program the Bulgarian economy has enjoyed quite good economic
performance with 5.8% real GDP growth in 2000, and the country has experienced
unprecedented foreign direct investment inflow amounting almost I billion dollars in 2000. We
take notes that several privatization and restructuring processes, including Bulgarian Telecom,
DHC and BDZ, are less advanced than planned under this program.
There is no mention to government financial institutions in the ICR. While there are various
opinions as to establishment of governmental financial institutions for implementation of
development policies in the transition economy, it would be possible, at a certain stage of
development, that governmental financial institutions would have a potential to play an important
role for further economic growth in Bulgaria, fostering and strengthening the real economy under
the condition that it focus the range of its operation strictly on the supplementary and
complementary role for the market principal.
Energy Sector
Compared to the other sectors, there are few mentions to achievement of objective and outputs in
restructuring the Energy Sector in the ICR.
Given the importance of the energy sector in the Bulgarian economy as a drive-force for future
economic growth, review and analysis on this sector should be more clearly elaborated in the
proposed ICR and the Bank's continuous involvement in this sector would be still of great help to
support the country's efforts for privatization reform.
(c) Other partners ('NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatoriMatrix                   Projected in last PSRI               ActuaULatest Estimate
Divestment of at least 75 percent of                                      About 90 percent of non-energy and
non-energy and non-infrastructure SOEs                                    non-infrastructure SOEs have been
privatized or liquidated; about 70 percent of
residual shares in enterprises privatized as of
June 2000 have been sold
Exit of non-energy and non-infrastructure                                 All non-energy SOEs in the Isolatin
SOEs from the Isolation Program through                                   Program were either privatized, liquidated, or
privatization or iniflation of liquidation or                             placed under insolvency proceedings
insolvency proceedings
Increase of District Heating Tariffs and                                  District Heating tariffs were increased and
submission and implementation of DHC                                      Parliament has approved the DHC
restructuring plan                                                        restructuring plan; however, the plan has not
yet been implemented
Submission and implemention of BDZ                                        Parliament has approved BDZ restructuring
restructuring program                                                     plan and passed new railway legislation; 16
BDZ subsidiaries have been privatized
Submission and implementation of                                          Action plan for accelerated privatization of
privatization or liquidation programs for the                             coal mines was approved by COM decision;
coal mines and briquette factory                                          all nonviable mines are under liquidation;
privatization process for viable mines has
begun
Submission and implementation of                                          Financial Recovery Plan is on target; tenders
restructuring plan for Bulgargaz                                          for establishment of low pressure regional
gas distribution companies under preparation
Implementation of policy on arrears to NEK                                Collection policies of NEK and Bulgargaz
and Bulgargaz                                                             have been generally followed
Enactment of Tax Procedure Code and                                       Tax Procedure Code and Social Security
Social Security Code                                                      Code were passed and are being
implemented; the Agency for Collection of
State Claims is operational
Creation of a unit under COM to set                                       Unit has been created; review of
standards, train, select, remove, and                                     implementation progress still to be done;
generally supervise liquidators of SOEs                                   future of the unit to be decided with SOE
divestment close to completion
Enactment of amendments to the                                            Amendments to Commercial Code have
Commercial Code to improve insolvency                                     been passed
process
Setting up of an inter-ministerial commission                             Not yet done; Bank assessment of
to analyze and recommend further reforms in                               insolvency being planned and will
insolvency process                                                        recommend next steps
Estabishment of a system to monitor                                       Financial Discipline and Fiscal Risk
financial discipline and fiscal risk in the                               Monitoring Unit created in the MoF and
enteprise sector                                                          receiving TA
- 16 -



Completion of privatization transaction of                                   Postbank, Expressbank, Hebrosbank, and
Postbank, Expressbank, Hebrosbank, and                                       Bulbank were successfully sold to foreign
Bulbank                                                                      investors; share of private sector banks in
banking assets is now 86 percent.
Begin privatization process for Biochimbank                                  Negotiations with interested buyer for
and SSB                                                                      Biochimbank are ongoing; privatization
process for SSB has yet to begin
Passage of amendments to Banking Law                                         A draft Bank Bankruptcy Act has been
dealing with insolvent banks                                                 submitted to Parliament but not yet passed
MoF to take over assets of 11 closed banks                                   MoF has begun the process of taking over
the assets of the 11 closed banks
Reduction of Govemment ownership share in
CCB to 33 percent or less                                                    Govemment share in CCB reduced to 32.8
percent and will be sold
Passage of the Law on Energy and Energy
Efficiency and adoption of regulations                                       Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency has
been pased and all but one key regulation
Establishment of a State Commission for                                      have been adopted
Energy Regulation and appointmentof
commissioners                                                                The State Commission for Energy
Regulation has been established and
Unbundling of NEK into distribution,                                         commissioners appointed
generation, and transmission companies
Seven distribution, six generation, and one
transmission company have been
Implementation of action plan for                                            established
restructuring the energy sector
Privatization of eledricty companies has
been delayed; implementation of district
heating program has also been delayed
Output Indicators:
lndicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR     -            ActuallLatest Estimate
End of project
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuaWL atest IPercentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
Total Baseline Cost                                0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs            0.00
Total Financing Required             0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    lCB           NCB        Mtho'2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         Other     __  ____
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
S. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
t_ _____________________   (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)                   (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICs          NCB         OtherI      N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
I _________________         (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
-18 -



5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                          0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
3 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local goverrnment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l                                                              . ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~ Percentage of A>ppraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate                 _  __
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Monith/Year    Count           Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/98                          4   2 Enterprise, I finance, 1
econonomist
11/98                         7   2 finance, 2 enterprise, 3
economists
4/99                          4    1 enterprise, 1 finance, 2
economists
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/99                          4    1 enterprise, I finance, 2
economists
10/99                        4    1 task manager, I lawyer, I
disbursement, 1 loan dept
Supervision
1/00                          2   1 enterprise, 1 finance              S              S
ICR
5/01                         2    1 enterprise, I finance              S              S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               USS (000)
Identification/Preparation                  62                           101
Appraisal/Negotiation                       78                           144
Supervision                                 19                            15
ICR                                          1                             5
Total                                      160                           265
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
DSector Policies                         O H  * SU O M  O N  ( NA
D Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
E Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Ol Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                              )HS *S  OU  OHU
O Supervision                                         D HS * S   ( )U  OHU
El Overall                                            OHS OS O U  O HU
6.2- Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS   O  U  0 HU
El Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 24 -



