Report No. PID8333
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Second Financial and (*) ...
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Private and Financial Sector
Project ID                       BGPE8317
Borrower(s)                      Government of Bulgaria
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 1, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         June 28, 1999
Projected Board Date             December 2, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      In late 1996 and early 1997, Bulgaria experienced deep financial and
economic crisis. In February 1997, an interim Government took office and
introduced measures to stabilize the economy. After elections in April
1997, a new Government took over and continued the efforts to pursue
economic stabilization and structural reforms. The most important element
of the macroeconomic program was the introduction of a Currency Board
Arrangement on July 1, 1997. To ensure the viability of the CBA, the
Government pursued strict fiscal policies and embarked on a program of price
and trade liberalization.
2.      In 1989, at the start of the transition of the transition to a market
economy, there was virtually no private sector presence in the Bulgarian
economy. In 1997, Bulgaria had one of the worst records of SOE
privatization in ECA with less than 20 percent of SOE long term assets being
divested. With the structural reform supported by the Bank, As of October
31, 1999, the Government has privatized or placed under liquidation or
insolvency about 75 percent of long term assets of SOEs in sectors other
than energy, transport and infrastructure
3.      During the 1996/97 crisis, the banking system went through a shakedown
as 17 banks were closed and came under court supervised bankruptcy and
liquidation procedures. Out of the remaining 22 banks in mid-1997, seven
were public sector banks which accounted for the bulk of the system's
assets. To reform the banking system, the Bulgarian National Bank
strengthened the legal and regulatory framework for banking and is upgrading
its banking supervision capacity. In addition, the Government had
privatized three public sector banks with the privatization of three more
expected in 2000.
The Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
4.      The Government's Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program has
three main components: (a) privatization or liquidation of SOEs; (b) banking



reform, including the privatization of the public sector banks (PSBs); and
(c) financial discipline on the remaining SOEs.
5.      The privatization strategy has three components: (a) sale of large SOEs
to strategic investors using international and local privatization agents;
(b) sale of small and medium SOEs mainly through auctions, tenders, and
negotiated sales; (c) liquidation of those SOEs whose privatization does not
materialize.. The Government has also reformed its social protection
programs to ensure adequate protection to vulnerable population groups in
the process of economic restructuring. An environmental program has also
been put in place and is supported by a Bank loan currently under
preparation.
6.      A new Law on Banks and a revised Law of the Bulgarian National Bank
were passed in 1997 to strengthen the legal framework for banking and enable
the BNB to adapt to the new environment under the CBA. The BNB overhauled
the prudential regulations for banking and strengthened its Banking
Supervision Department with the help of foreign experts. The Bank
Consolidation Company, which held the Government shares in six public sector
banks, has already privatized three banks and is in the process of
privatizing the three remaining banks under its control. The Government
envisions privatizing the State Savings Bank in 2001, thereby completing the
privatization program covering public sector banks.
7.      To impose financial discipline on the largest loss-making SOEs, the
Government implemented an Isolation Program to limit the access of these
SOEs to bank credit. The program covered 78 SOEs, of which 48 had already
been privatized or placed under liquidation or insolvency proceedings. The
Government has prepared restructuring plans for the remaining 30 SOEs, which
are mainly in the energy and infrastructure sectors, and is reviewing the
feasibility of privatization and private sector participation. In the
meantime, the Government is monitoring the financial performance of the
remaining SOEs, especially the build-up of arrears to major creditors such
as the state-owned electricity and gas companies, the tax office, the social
security institute, and the public sector banks.
Energy Sector Restructuring
8.      The Government has adopted a reform program for the energy sector to
restore its financial viability and ensure efficient allocation of
resources. The plan is to phase out all subsidies, initiate appropriate
pricing mechanisms, and create a regulatory environment that is conducive to
private sector participation in the energy sector so that much of the needed
resources for investment can be attracted on commercial terms without
incurring excessive budgetary liabilities and risk. The core elements of
the program include:
Progressive increase of tariffs
Establishment of a sound legal and regulatory framework
Liberalization of the market for electricity generation
Break-up of NEK into separate entities for generation, transmission, and
distribution
Privatization of major non-nuclear assets.
9.      The Parliament passed in July 1999 the Law on Energy and Energy
Resources which provides for: (a) private ownership of energy assets; (b) a
-2 -



clear separation of policy-making, regulatory, and ownership functions; (c)
an independent regulatory authority to set regulated tariffs, issue
licenses, and regulate market structure and rules to enable competition and
transparent regulation; (d) a legal and non-discriminatory basis for
generators and importers to enter into direct supply contracts with eligible
customers; and (e) an open regulatory process. The Government has also
established the autonomous regulator, the State Agency for Energy and Energy
Resources. The National Electricity Company will be broken up into several
units starting end-1999, and the privatization of the power distribution
companies that will be spun off from the National Electricity Company will
begin in 2000.
The Proposed Loan
10.     FESAL II will support the sustained implementation of the Government's
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program, as well as the initial
phase of an Energy Sector Restructuring Program. FESAL II is designed as a
single tranche operation. A third FESAL is envisioned in the CAS to support
the completion of the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program and
further reforms in the energy sector.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:               (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Albert F. Martinez
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel: (202) 473-9287
Fax: (202) 522-3687
Ministry of Finance
102 Rakovsky Street
Sofia 1040
Tel: (359-2) 9859 2001
Fax: (359-2) 87 05 81
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 5, 1999.
- 3 -



