Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7342 -BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 95.50 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
November 3, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = BGN (effective July 5, 1999)
BGN 1 = US$ 0.540
US$ 1 = BGN 1.850
BGN 1 = BGL 1,000 (old currency)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
BULGARIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCC                    - Bank Consolidation Company
BDZ                    - Bulgarian State Railways
BNB                    - Bulgarian National Bank
BSD                    - Banking Supervision Department
CAS                    - Country Assistance Strategy
CBA                    - Currency Board Arrangement
CIRL                   - Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan
COM                    - Council of Ministers
DHC                    - District Heating Company
DIF                    - Deposit Insurance Fund
EIA                    - Environmental Impact Assessment
FESAL                  - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FESAP                  - Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustrnent Program
IBRD                   - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF                    - International Monetary Fund
LDP                    - Letter of Development Policy
LTA                    - Long Term Assets
MoF                    - Ministry of Finance
MoJ                    - Ministry of Justice and European Legal Integration
MPP                    - Mass Privatization Program
NEK                    - National Electricity Company
PATA                   - Privatization Advisors and Transaction Agents
PSB                    - Public Sector Bank
RL                     - Rehabilitation Loan
SOE                    - State-owned Enterprise
USAID                  - United States Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director: Paul J. Siegelbaum
ProgramTeam Leader: Albert F. Martinez



BULGARIA  FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
I.  INTRODUCTION .......................................................1
II. MACROECONOMIC POLICY AND PERFORMANCE   ............                                          2
III. THE FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM   ..............                 ...............................               3
Privatization and Liquidation of State-owned Enterprises .........                  3
Banking Reform ......................................................               8
Financial Discipline ......................................................        12
Energy Sector Restructuring ............................................           15
IV.  THE PROPOSED  LOAN .............................................                           17
Description and Objectives ..............................................          17
Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................       ...................      17
Composition and Quality of the Bank's Portfolio ........           ...........     18
Country Assistance Strategy and FESAL II ...........................               19
Loan Amount and Tranching ......................... ..................             19
Loan Conditions ......................           .......................           19
Disbursement and Procurement ..................          .....................     24
Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing .............          ....................    24
Implementation and Monitoring of Development Impact                  ..........    24
Environmental Implications of FESAL II ...........            ................     24
Potential Risks ......................................................             25
Collaboration with the IMF, US, EU, and Japan ........            ............     25
V.  RECOMMENDATION ......................................................                       26
ANNEXES
Annex 1:                  Letter of Development Policy
Annex 2:                  Policy and Action Matrix
Annex 3:                  Selected Key Economic Indicators
Annex 4:                  Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 5:                  Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 6:                  Bank Group Operations Portfolio
Annex 7:                  Bulgaria at a Glance
MAP                      IBRD No. 26532R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






BULGARIA
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Bulgaria
Executing Agency:  Ministry of Finance
Loan Amount:      Euro 95.5 million
Terms:            IBRD terms with 20 years maturity, including 5 years grace period, at the
Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans in
Euro.
Commitment Fee:   0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Objectives:       The objective of the loan is to support: (a) substantial progress in the
implementation of structural reforms in the financial and enterprise
sectors, and (b) the initial phase of the energy sector restructuring
program.
Description:      The loan will support the acceleration of progress in the privatization and
liquidation of state owned enterprises, the sustaining of banking reforms
including privatization of public sector banks and upgrading of banking
supervision capacity, the maintenance of financial discipline, and the
implementation of the initial phase of the restructuring of the energy
sector.
Benefits:         Progress in the reforms supported by the loan will sustain the gains from
macroeconomic stabilization and deepen the transition to a market
economy.
Risks:            The most important risks are delays in implementation given the crises
that have affected and continue to affect the region in general and Bulgaria
in particular.
Environment:      The proposed loan has been placed in Category B.
Financing Plan:    IBRD - Euro 95.5 million
Japan Bank for International Cooperation -- US$50 million equivalent
Disbursements:    FY00 - Euro 95.5 million
Project ID Number: PE-P008317






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II) to the Government of
Bulgaria for Euro 95.5 million. The loan will comprise a single tranche in Euros, and will be
payable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate for
LIBOR-based single currency loans in Euro.
1.02     The proposed Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan will provide
foreign exchange for balance of payments support. The proposed loan is conditioned on
substantial progress in the implementation of structural reforms in the financial and enterprise
sectors, and the implementation of the initial phase of the restructuring of the energy sector,
aimed at deepening the process of transfonnation to a market economy. There have been three
prior policy based loans to support structural reforms. The Rehabilitation Loan (RL), approved
in August 1996, supported the initial phase of the Governinent's stabilization and reform
program by helping mitigate the adverse social impact on displaced workers. However,
incomplete and hesitant implementation of the structural reforms damaged the credibility of the
reforms leading to a sharp decline in economic activity in 1996 and subsequently the downfall of
the Government.
1.03     In February 1997, a new Government took over and with the support of the Bank and
the IMF developed a new stabilization and structural reform program. The Critical Imports
Rehabilitation Loan (CIRL), approved by the Bank in May 1997, provided rapid financial
support to reduce shortages of vital commodities, thereby helping build public confidence in the
reforms. On July 1, 1997, the Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) was introduced as the
centerpiece of the macroeconomic stabilization program. The first Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL I), approved by the Bank in October 1997, supported the initial
stage of implementation of an aggressive structural reform program to accompany the
macroeconomic stabilization efforts.
1.04     The proposed Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL II)
will support the sustained implementation of the Government's Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Program (FESAP), the initial phase of an Energy Sector Restructuring Program, and
a set of policies and actions contained in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP), included as
Annex 1 of this report. The proposed FESAL II will complement other assistance supporting the
Government's reform efforts. The IMF has agreed with the Government on a medium-term
economic program supported by a three-year extended arrangement approved in September
1998. The Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL), approved in November 1998, aims to
mitigate the adverse effects of transition on vulnerable population groups. The Agriculture



- 2 -
Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL), approved in May 1999, supports a comprehensive reform of
agricultural sector policies to develop a more efficient and responsive agricultural sector. The
proposed Environment and Privatization Support Loan (EPSL), scheduled for Board Presentation
in January 2000, will support a comprehensive reform of environmental policies and the
incorporation of environmental issues into the privatization program.
II. ECONOMIC POLICY AND PERFORMANCE
2.01      Macroeconomic conditions have improved remarkably since the crisis of 1996-97,
with the most important accomplishment being macroeconomic stabilization. Sound policies
have led to a decline in inflation, single digit interest rates, and a return of confidence in the
currency and the banking system. In 1998, Bulgaria's economic developments remained quite
favorable despite the Asian and Russian crises.  Macroeconomic stabilization has been
successfully maintained largely due to the Currency Board Arrangement and a tight fiscal stance.
The overall Government balance swung from a 2.5 percent deficit in 1997 to a one percent
surplus in 1998. Inflation, at one percent at the end of 1998, remained below expectations. As
the stabilization program took hold, economic activity began recovering in 1998. One positive
impact of the stabilization program has been recent increases in real wages and salaries, which
has enabled a recovery in the purchasing power of the population from its very depressed levels.
This created some modest growth in domestic demand. As a result, economic growth also
rebounded and real GDP growth reached a rate of 3.5 percent in 1998.
2.02      The economic recovery slowed in the latter part of 1998, as a result of a combination
of factors, notably the turnoil in international markets, weak external demand, and the
restructuring taking place in the country's industrial sector. Nonetheless, the recovery of GDP
growth in 1998 resulted in a decline in the unemployment rate from 14 percent in 1997 to 12
percent at the end of 1998. Despite the recovery in economic growth in 1998, the slow pace of
restructuring in the industrial sector has led to some stagnation in exports. As a consequence, the
country's trade balance deteriorated, and the current account swung into a deficit of 2.1 percent
of GDP in 1998. These results indicate that more needs to be done to facilitate the restructuring
of the economy in order to achieve sustained economic growth.
2.03      The early 1999 economic developments signaled a weakening of the economy even
before the Kosovo crisis. Industrial sales went down by about 13 percent in the first half of
1999. Business confidence in industry also recorded some deterioration, and inventories began
to grow suggesting a further weakening in demand. This is likely to lead to some increase in
unemployment, as enterprises adjust to the worsening business environment. Also, export
performance continued to weaken during the first half of 1999, contributing to a widening of the
current account deficit. Traditional exports of chemicals, fertilizers and metals kept falling
mainly due to lower world market prices and the restructuring in these sectors, while textiles,
apparel and footwear offset some of the fall in other exports.
2.04      The economy's weakening performance has been exacerbated by the Kosovo crisis.
The closure of the border with FR Yugoslavia in late March 1999 resulted in direct and transit
trade losses. A large part of Bulgaria's exports was rerouted at much higher cost, while transit
trade remained blocked even after the end of the military operations. There was also some



-3 -
limited negative effect on tourism. The conflict initially affected investor confidence and a
number of large privatization deals were put on hold. However, after the war, investor
confidence revived quite rapidly, and foreign direct investment is now expected to be higher than
initially projected for 1999. Nonetheless, the Kosovo conflict increased the overall balance-of-
payments financing needs of Bulgaria for 1999 by about one percent of GDP. We estimate that
the negative impact on growth was about 1.5 percent. These negative external developments
have increased the importance of adhering to the stabilization and structural adjustment
programs, and the Government has re-affirmed its commitment to do so.
2.05      External demand is expected to be weaker in 1999 due to the impact of the recent
international and Kosovo crises, and this will result in lower GDP growth rates. Nevertheless, if
the Government continues to aggressively pursue the structural reform program, higher growth
rates of at least four percent could be achieved in the medium term due to projected
improvements in the external environment and increased domestic investments-both private
and public. These expectations are based on the assumption that private sector activity will
continue to expand while public investment will grow in line with the public investment program
of the Government.
2.06      The adverse effects of the international environment and the related current account
deterioration necessitated a tighter fiscal stance. The Government has achieved considerable
progress in improving revenue performance and tightening expenditure management, thereby
keeping the overall deficit for the first nine months of 1999 to manageable limits. Preliminary
data indicate that the revenue and expenditure performance over the first nine months of 1999
would ensure the achievement of the 1999 deficit target of 1.5 percent of GDP if restraint on
discretionary expenditures and wages is maintained for the remainder of the year.
III. THE FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Privatization and Liquidation of State-owned Enterprises
3.01      The Privatization Strategy and Program. In 1997, compared to other transition
economies, Bulgaria ranked close to the bottom in terms of privatization of SOEs. With the
stabilization program of 1997, the Government embarked on an ambitious privatization program
that had two phases: (a) the divestiture, originally scheduled to be completed by the end of 1999,
of SOEs in sectors other than energy, transport and infrastructurel accounting for about 63
percent of total long term assets (LTA)2 held by all SOEs; and (b) the privatization, beginning
2000, of most of the SOEs in the energy, transport and infrastructure sectors accounting for
about 37 percent of total LTA. The Government will continue to maintain ownership of certain
SOEs and assets in the energy and infrastructure sectors, such the nuclear power plant and the
power transmission company that will be spun off from the National Electricity Company.
I The Bulgarian Telecommunications Company, Balkan Airlines, and some power generation assets have been
included in the first phase of the privatization program.
2 The base used is the value of total long term assets of all SOEs at end-1995, estimated at BGL 599 billion or about
68 percent of 1995 GDP.



- 4 -
3.02       The first phase of the privatization program has the following components: (a) the
privatization of large SOEs to strategic investors using international privatization agents for the
largest and most important SOEs; (b) the privatization of smaller SOEs mainly through auctions,
tenders, and negotiated sales; and (c) the liquidation of those SOEs in sectors other than energy,
transport and infrastructure whose privatization does not materialize after a reasonable period of
time. For large SOEs, the sale of controlling stakes to strategic investors aims to ensure effective
post-privatization governance and restructuring. For the smaller SOEs, the privatization methods
emphasize speed and transparency.
3.03       The second phase of the privatization program involves: (a) the establishment of a
legal and regulatory framework that would enable privatization and private sector participation in
sectors with natural monopoly characteristics; (b) the restructuring of these sectors to facilitate
privatization and private sector participation; and (c) the implementation of actions prior to
privatization that would improve efficiency in operations of SOEs in the energy, transport and
infrastructure sectors. While the Government is establishing the framework that would enable
privatization and private sector participation in these sectors, the Government is implementing
short term programs to reduce losses in many of these SOEs by increasing and rebalancing
tariffs, divesting non-core operations, and improving revenue collection.
3.04       First Phase of the Privatization Program. Under the first phase of the privatization
program, some 530 large SOEs3 in sectors other than energy, transport and infrastructure were
slated for privatization or liquidation. The privatization of 31 of the largest and most important
SOEs accounting for about 24 percent of long term assets4 of SOEs in the first phase of the
privatization program involves the appointment of international privatization agents under the
Privatization Advisors and Transaction Agents (PATA) program financed by donors and the
Bank. An additional 52 large SOEs and holdings accounting for about eight percent of long term
assets were grouped into eight pools where each pool is assigned to a privatization agent. The
Privatization Agency is directly handling the privatization of about 390 large SOEs accounting
for some 32 percent of long term assets, and the line ministries are responsible for the
privatization of 60 large SOEs representing about five percent of long terrn assets.
3.05       The privatization of about 3,000 smaller SOEs accounting for about 31 percent of
long term assets is managed by the line ministries. While competitive auctions and tenders are
the preferred mechanisms for privatization, negotiated sales in the context of Management and
Employee Buy-outs have been dominant in this segment of SOEs. Investors have also used
vouchers from the Mass Privatization Program to purchase many of the smaller SOEs.
3.06       In 1996, the Government introduced a Mass Privatization Program  with the
distribution of vouchers to about three million citizens. Three auctions were held during 1996-
3 SOEs above BGL 1 billion (about $560,000) in long term assets based on the 1997 revaluation were considered
large enterprises and the responsibility for their privatization was given to the PA, which manages the PATA and
Pool programs and also directly handles the sale of most of the large SOEs. In July 1999, the PA transferred the
responsibility for the privatization of 60 large SOEs to the line ministries.
4 The long term asset base used for computing performance under the first phase of the privatization program is
BGL 376.5 billion in 1995 prices, or 63 percent of total long term assets.



-5 -
5
97 resulting in the privatization of 666 SOEs representing about 14 percent of long term assets.
In 1998, investment vouchers were offered to about six million eligible citizens and a centralized
public auction scheme was designed where shares of SOEs were to be sold for both cash and
investment vouchers. To date, the number of citizens who have received vouchers exceed one
million. Seven centralized public auctions are scheduled in 1999 to sell mainly residual shares of
the State in privatized enterprises, with the first five auctions completed as of October 31, 1999
and the remainder to be completed by December 31, 1999.
3.07       Second Stage of the Privatization Program. The second stage of the privatization
program covers SOEs where privatization is considered difficult, such as in the case of railways,
or where sector restructuring and the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework are
preconditions for privatization, such as in the case of the energy sector. These SOEs number 133
of which the energy sector accounts for 54 percent in terms of long term assets of SOEs in the
second stage of the privatization program. The Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ), the 18 district
heating companies (DHCs), and the coal mining enterprises are the major loss-makers in this
group of SOEs, requiring subsidies from the budget. The other SOEs in the second stage of the
privatization program are mainly in water utilities, ports, airport, and transport sectors.
3.08      Performance. As of October 31, 1999, about 75 percent of long term assets of SOEs
included in the first phase of the privatization program have been privatized or placed under
bankruptcy or liquidation, compared to the 28 percent performance as of September 30, 1997
when FESAL I was about to go to Board. With respect to the large SOEs, the Government has
completed the divestiture of about 80 percent of long term assets of SOEs in the PATA program,
and divested over 30 percent of long term assets of the SOEs under the Pool program with the
remainder in an advanced stage of preparation.6 The Privatization Agency has divested more
than 90 percent of long term assets of the large SOEs under its responsibility. Because the
responsibility for privatization of 60 large SOEs was only recently transferred to the line
ministries, only one privatization transaction in this group of SOEs has been completed.
Nonetheless, the divestiture of the large SOEs under the first phase is expected to be completed
in the first half of 2000. With respect to smaller SOEs, the line ministries have completed as of
October 31, 1999 the sale of, or placed under liquidation or bankruptcy, about 80 percent of the
long term assets of SOEs under their mandates. The small scale privatization program is
expected to be completed by March 31, 2000.7
3.09       The Government has taken significant steps in establishing the foundation for the
implementation of the second phase of the privatization program. The Parliament enacted in
July 1999 the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency, and the Government has set up the State
Commission for Energy Regulation, paving the way for the sale of energy assets beginning 2000.
The Government recently approved the long term plans for BDZ and the DHCs, which plans
have privatization and private sector participation components. In addition, the Government has
5 SOEs privatized by voucher are included mainly in the line ministry component of the first phase of the
privatization program.
6 The Pool Privatization program was established about a year later than the PATA program, and most of contracts
with the privatization agents expire in the latter part of 1999 and the first quarter of 2000.
7 The smaller SOEs that will remain after the completion of the small scale privatization program will be those with
restitution and legal issues that prevent the line ministries from proceeding with their privatization or liquidation.



-6 -
been shedding the non-core activities of BDZ, preparing the legal separation of the distribution,
transmission, and generation functions of the National Electricity Company (NEK), and
introducing competition through private entry in the gas distribution market.
3.10     Social Safety Net. The Government has begun the process of reforming its social
protection programs with three overarching objectives: (a) to ensure adequate protection of
clearly identified vulnerable population groups, especially those adversely affected by structural
reforms, through improved targeting and provision of meaningful benefits and quality services;
(b) to ensure the medium and longer run fiscal sustainability of the social protection system in a
manner consistent with economic growth objectives in a market-oriented economy; and (c) to
increase the fiscal transparency and reduce duplication and fragmentation among the various
social protection programs.
3.11     In the area of labor and unemployment, the reforms focus on increasing the
flexibility of labor markets, improving work incentives for the unemployed, and providing
adequate protection for laid-off workers in a fiscally sustainable manner. In November 1997,
Parliament approved the Act on Unemployment Security and Employment Incentives providing
employment benefits and unemployment protection consistent with the needs of a market
economy. The Act also established the National Employment Agency as an independent entity,
which manages the payroll contribution financed Professional Qualification and Unemployment
Fund.
3.12     In addition to ongoing employment programs, the Government initiated in 1997 a
severance pay scheme to provide special support to workers laid-off as a result of structural
reform measures. The program was significantly expanded later in 1997 to provide support to
both SOE and budget sector workers affected by closures and downsizing. To date, nearly
50,000 workers have opted for severance pay, with the average payment at BGN 383.
Unemployed SOE workers also have the option to receive unemployment insurance benefits
under the Professional Qualification and Unemployment Fund in lieu of severance pay.
3.13     Environment. The implementation of sound policy reformns aimed at economic
recovery and growth, including privatization, will have to be accompanied by environmental
policies and targeted environmental programs in order to achieve the maximum welfare benefits
from economic reforms. Experience in many countries, including those in Central and Eastern
Europe, has shown that uncertainties about liabilities for past environmental damage and about
standards for future environmental performance increase the risk for investors, hinder the
privatization process, reduce privatization revenues, and leave serious environmental problems
unresolved. In Bulgaria, there are two separate but linked issues, which must be solved.
* The environmental legacy of the past is a major concern especially for sectors where
environmental liabilities are large compared to the value of enterprises. These sectors
include mining and metallurgy, chemicals and petrochemicals, oil refining and petroleum
distribution. The need is for a clear legal framework backed up by mechanisms for:
(a) assessing the magnitude of past liabilities; (b) developing plans for appropriate
remediation and management of the liabilities; (c) agreeing on the respective
responsibilities of the Government (as seller) and the new owners for implementing and



- 7 -
financing these plans; and (d) dealing with hidden liabilities whose extent and nature only
emerge after the privatization is completed.
Few industrial plants are currently able to comply with existing Bulgarian environmental
regulations with respect to their emissions, let alone any future regulations that will be
adopted as Bulgaria moves to implement EU environmental directives. It is clear that the
responsibility for future compliance with environmental regulations must lie with the new
owners. However, the nature of the emission standards that will apply and the time
allowed for compliance with these standards may have a large impact on the valuation of
enterprise and future investment plans. If the time allowed to comply with more stringent
environmental regulations is shortened, the Government has to bear the costs reflected in
reduced privatization revenues.
3.14      At the beginning of privatization, the Government did not pay special attention to
environmental issues.  The lack of awareness and information about the extent of past
environmental liabilities has caused delays in and failure of the privatization of a number of
highly polluting enterprises. In other cases, the lack of attention to environmental issues has
resulted in ongoing disputes and unresolved problems. As the Government embarked on an
ambitious large-scale privatization program, concerns were raised about the possibility that large
and poorly defined environmental liabilities would deter reputable investors.
3.15      The Bank assisted the Government with an Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
to help address immediate environmental liabilities at the MDK Copper Smelter, one of the
worst polluting enterprises in Bulgaria, in the context of its sale to a strategic investor. The
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project introduced a mechanism for addressing both ongoing
environmental obligations and past liabilities in a comprehensive way for the first time.
3.16      Based on the lessons learned from the Bank-assisted Environmental Remediation
Pilot Project, the Government embarked on an Environment and Privatization Support Program
with three main components: (a) a framework for integrating environmental liabilities into
privatization; (b) regulatory reform for addressing off-site and hidden liabilities; and (c) a
framework for improving ongoing environmental performance. Bank support for this initiative
is being contemplated under the proposed Environment and Privatization Support Loan.
3.17      In 1998, a Regulation of the Council of Ministers introduced a requirement for SOEs
in the process of privatization to carry out an Environmental Impact Assessment, including an
assessment of environmental damage caused before privatization. In accordance with the
provisions of Bulgarian environmental legislation, the full Environmental Impact Assessment is
subject to public consultation and discussion before it is approved by the Expert Council of the
Ministry of Environment and Waters. The Environmental Impact Assessment will identify
whether the SOE is required to develop a Remediation Plan for Past Environmental Damages
and/or a Compliance Plan to bring the operations into compliance with relevant emission
standards.
3.18      Post Privatization Restructuring and Growth. The Government's enterprise reform
agenda for the future will focus on three areas. First, the Government will complete the first



- 8 -
phase of the privatization program and begin implementation of the program of privatization and
private sector participation in the energy, transport and infrastructure sectors. Second, the
Government will ensure the existence of conditions that will support and encourage restructuring
of privatized firms. The Parliament is considering a new Law on Public Offering of Securities
and the Council of Ministers has submitted amendments to the Commercial Code that would
improve the framework for enterprise liquidation and insolvency. The Government will also
start a review of corporate governance mechanisms, including the market for corporate control.
Third, the Government is reviewing and will continue to improve the enabling environment for
the development of new private sector activities. The focus is on small and medium scale
enterprise development, export promotion, improving productivity through skills and technology
upgrading, increased foreign direct investment, and achieving competitiveness.
Banking Reform
3.19      Banking Reform Strategy. The current program of reforms in the banking sector has
four major components: (a) the establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory
environment; (b) the development of an effective banking supervision capability; (c) the
restructuring of the banking system through liquidation of insolvent banks and privatization of
public sector banks to strong and reputable strategic investors; and (d) the containment of public
sector bank lending to SOEs while these banks are in the process of privatization. These reforms
will pave the way for the next generation of banking reforms which will address issues relating
to increased resource mobilization and greater financial flows to support private sector activity.
3.20      Legal and Regulatory Framework. In line with the recommendations of the IMF and
the Bank, the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) strengthened the legal and regulatory framework
for commercial banking activity in order to foster prudent banking practices and ensure the
stability of banks under the Currency Board Arrangement. Parliament passed a new Law on
Banks in June 1997 mainly to facilitate the resolution of insolvent banks, improve bank licensing
procedures, strengthen accounting and external auditing provisions, introduce provisions on
bankers' fiduciary duty and conflicts of interest, and rationalize penalties for regulatory non-
compliance. Parliament also passed a new Law of the Bulgarian National Bank to clarify the
role of the BNB in the context of the Currency Board Arrangement and to increase its
independence and accountability. In particular, the new law ensures the independent authority of
the Deputy Governor responsible for banking supervision.
3.21      In line with the new legal framework for banking, BNB overhauled the regulations
covering banking activities and issued regulations covering capital adequacy, risk exposures and
provisioning, and liquidity. To enhance the credibility and effectiveness of the new banking
laws and regulations, BNB restructured its banking supervision function and introduced
requirements for bank accounting, auditing, and reporting consistent with international practices.
Banks were required to adopt international accounting standards, to be subject to independent
audits by international auditors, and to introduce internationally accepted disclosure standards.
3.22      The Banking Supervision Department of the BNB has an ongoing review of existing
regulations and has worked on the preparation of new prudential regulations to be issued by the
end-1999. The Banking Supervision Department has prepared amendments to the regulations on



- 9 -
licensing and large loan limits, and drafted a new regulation on consolidated supervision, both of
which are expected to be introduced by end-1999. Recent experience in enforcing existing
regulations has revealed weaknesses that would require the Banking Supervision Department to
strengthen the regulation on classification and provisioning of credits.
3.23      Banking Supervision. To improve banking supervision, the Banking Supervision
Department has reorganized, expanded, and trained its staff with the assistance of one resident
IMF advisor, two resident USAID on-site advisors supplemented by frequent visits by several
short term examiners and legal advisors, and four resident EU PHARE advisors who focus on
off-site supervision. In addition, resident advisers to the State-owned Bank Consolidation
Company (BCC), which holds the majority of the equity shares in most of the public sector
banks, help prepare the public sector banks for privatization. Various banking experts have been
assisting the State Savings Bank in designing and implementing a restructuring plan.
3.24      To implement the Strategic Plan for On-site Supervision, the Banking Supervision
Department has trained on-site examiners and developed an Examination Manual funded by
USAID. The Banking Supervision Department has formally adopted a CAMELS bank rating
system which will be published after it has been further tested and all banks have been rated.
USAID program support includes the development of a section in the Manual on "Enforcement
Powers and Problem Bank Supervision."
3.25      Following the arrival of EU PHARE advisors in October 1998, off-site supervision
and analysis have made significant progress. Considerable work has gone into the development
of new monthly and quarterly call reports from banks, which began submitting reports on the
new basis beginning March 1999. The current institutional development agenda for off-site
supervision will focus on ensuring the quality of incoming information, improving the reporting
system, and developing analytical skills.
3.26      Privatization of Public Sector Banks. Following the economic and financial crisis of
1996-97, the banking system shrunk as 17 banks were closed and placed under court supervised
insolvency procedures. Out of the remaining seven8 public sector banks in mid-1997, six were to
be privatized by BCC, which held between 78 to 99 percent of the equity shares of these six
banks. In July 1997, BCC sold 99.6 percent of the United Bulgarian Bank to a group of
investors that included the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and
Oppenheimer & Co. In November 1998, BCC sold 78.29 percent of Postbank to the American
Life Insurance Companyl and the Greek Euro-Finance Holdings which made a commitment to
infuse U.S. $20 million in additional equity within a year after conclusion of the transaction. In
September 1999, BCC signed a share purchase agreement with Societe Generale for the sale of
*97.9 percent of Expressbank. The status of the privatization of the three remaining banks under
BCC's control is described below:
s The Government does not consider the Municipality Bank of Sofia to be a public sector bank due to the
independence of the Municipality of Sofia, which owns 67 percent of the bank, from the central Government.
Nonetheless, the Municipality Bank of Sofia is not a private sector bank and its loan portfolio is being closely
monitored by the BNB.
9 IFC will invest $12.4 million in the equity of Postbank.
10 The American Life Insurance Company has committed to purchase an additional 7.3 percent of equity in
Postbank.



- 10-
*  BCC is handing directly the privatization of Hebrosbank. Final instructions to bidders were
issued in early August 1999 and four institutions and/or consortiums submitted offers by the
September 15, 1999 deadline. BCC is currently reviewing the offers and has requested
clarifications as to some of the terms and conditions of the various offers. A share purchase
agreement with the winning bidder is expected to be signed during the first quarter of 2000.
*  BCC hired the consortium of Credit Anstalt Investment Bank, Credit Suisse First Boston, and
Arthur Andersen as the investment advisor to assist in the sale of Bulbank. Bulbank is the
largest bank in Bulgaria and holds approximately 27 percent of the total banking assets. The
invitation to bid was issued in June 1999 and BCC expects to sign a share purchase
agreement with the winning bidder by June 30, 2000.
* In early 1999, BCC hired Glendale Consulting to furnish foreign bankers to serve as senior
managers of Commercial Bank Biochim and restructure the bank over what was anticipated
to be a two year contract. At that time, Biochim was not expected to be privatized until the
year 2001. However, based on increased interest from both foreign and domestic investors in
the Expressbank and Hebrosbank offerings, BCC approved the acceleration of the
privatization timetable for Biochim in July 1999. In conjunction with this revised strategy,
the foreign management team was dismissed because a two year restructuring program was
inconsistent with the accelerated privatization strategy. BCC has approved the Information
Memorandum for Biochim and has started the marketing phase of Biochim's privatization.
BCC plans to issue final instructions to bidders in late 1999 or early 2000 and following
receipt of offers and negotiations, expects to have the share purchase agreement executed by
June 30, 2000.
3.27      The State Savings Bank has been made a full commercial bank based on the Law on
the Transformation of the State Savings Bank of April 1999, but is under close supervision by the
Bulgarian National Bank until its full deposit guarantee is replaced by limited deposit insurance
in 2000. Following a complete supervisory audit, a Memorandum of Understanding between the
State Savings Bank and the Bulgarian National Bank was signed in August 1998 which specified
the reporting requirements and the restrictions on activities. In February 1999, the State Savings
Bank Board approved a strategic plan which envisions a continued focus on retail banking
services and an expansion into the provision of services to small and medium enterprises and
municipalities. In implementing its objectives, the State Savings Bank will rely on technical
assistance from EU PHARE. The Government intends to privatize the State Savings Bank in the
year 2001.
3.28      In 1999, the Government established the State-owned Business Promotion Bank in
order to take advantage of the credit line offered by the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of
Germany which will be used mainly for the promotion of small businesses. The Government
will limit the operations of the Business Promotion Bank to the activities funded by KfW. The
Government will also reduce its indirect equity holdings (through the State Insurance Company
and the State Fund for Agriculture) in the Central Cooperative Bank to 33 percent or below by
June 30, 2000. Until such time that BNB has ensured that the Central Cooperative Bank has met
the capital adequacy requirements, the loan portfolio of the bank will not increase beyond the



- 11 -
June 30, 1999 level. Moreover, the Government has committed not to increase the equity of the
Central Cooperative Bank through the infusion of additional public resources. In addition to the
State Savings Bank, the Business Promotion Bank, and the Central Cooperative Bank, there is
one more bank that is not owned by the private sector - the Municipality Bank of Sofia, which is
considered an independent entity. The Municipality Bank of Sofia, which is subject to BNB
supervision, is in compliance will all prudential standards as of September 30, 1999.
3.29     Liquidation of Insolvent Banks. With the closure of Credit Bank in early 1999, there
are currently 18 closed banks under court supervised liquidation.  The court supervised
liquidation of these banks has not worked satisfactorily. As of mid-1999, about one-third of the
original number of branches remained open and a corresponding percentage of staff was still
employed by the closed banks. The recovery of assets was a dismal 7.6 percent of the 1998 book
value, and average monthly expenses exceeded income by more than 25 percent, so that the
creditors' resources were being diluted by the delay in the completion of the liquidation process.
3.30     As an immediate measure, the Government and the BNB developed a plan for eleven
of the closed banks whereby all of the assets of each bank would be tendered as a package with a
minimum acceptable price. If no bids are received, the Ministry of Finance, as the highest
ranking creditor and having claims that exceed the value of the assets for eleven of the closed
banks, would exercise its rights under the law to take over all of the assets directly against its
claims. The Government would then own the assets, the liquidation of the eleven banks would
be completed, and the assignees in bankruptcy would be dismissed. In June 1999, the Parliament
passed amendments to the Law on Banks which enables the Government to implement this plan.
3.31     The Government and the BNB are reviewing options for a longer term solution for
resolving and/or liquidating future insolvent banks. For this purpose, a BNB-led working group,
which includes representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and
European Legal Integration, was convened. Among the options being considered is the one
recommended by the Bank where the resolution of the insolvent banks would be covered by new
legislation and would be administered by the Deposit Insurance Fund. This would allow the
consolidation of limited expertise in bank conservatorship in one institution. The choice of the
Deposit Insurance Fund has the advantage of the Deposit Insurance Fund having the financial
incentive as a major creditor to achieve the most successful resolution of insolvent banks. The
relevant legislative provisions that would improve the resolution of insolvent banks are expected
to be sent to Parliament by March 31, 2000.
3.32     As of end-1998, the Deposit Insurance Fund was operational. In January 1999, the
Deposit Insurance Fund paid out BGL 10 billion to depositors of the insolvent Credit Bank and
seemed to have met the expectation of the public with respect to the existing deposit insurance
system. With the experience with Credit Bank, the Deposit Insurance Fund is recommending
some amendments to existing legislation and clarifications to current regulations to improve its
operations.
3.33     Next Steps. In the near term, BNB and BCC will focus their efforts on completing
the current reform program, notably the privatization of public sector banks and improvement of
supervision capacity. With assistance from the Bank, the Government and BNB will be



- 12 -
designing and implementing the next generation of banking refonns. These reforms will include
the following objectives: (a) strengthening the banking sector; (b) developing capability on the
part of both the supervisor and the banks to identify and manage different types of risk; and
(c) establishing an environment that will enable banks to provide longer term lending, support
exporters, and finance small and medium enterprises. In addition to banking reforms, the
Government will develop and strengthen other components of the financial system, notably
contractual savings institutions and capital markets.
Financial Discipline
3.34      Financial Discipline Measures. The Government is aware that the imposition of
financial discipline on the SOE sector is a critical factor to the success of the Currency Board
Arrangement. For this reason, in addition to other measures, the Government isolated the largest
loss makers identified at the beginning of the economic crisis of 1996 and early 1997 from the
banking system. Furthermore, the BNB has been closely monitoring the lending activities of the
public sector banks, especially their SOE portfolio. The Government's most recent steps to
impose financial discipline include: (a) ensuring that the National Electricity Company (NEK)
and Bulgargazli strictly enforce their collection policies; (b) establishing more effective
Government collection capabilities in dealing with enterprises with tax and social security
arrears; (c) improving the transparency of fiscal transfers by eliminating the Energy Resources
Fund which taxed the profits of NEK and provided subsidies to energy related SOEs; and
(d) reforming the institutional framework for liquidation and insolvency.
3.35      The Isolation Program. The Isolation prograrn encompassed 78 of the largest loss
makers and consisted of two main components: (a) the design and implementation of measures to
improve the financial performance of 30 SOEs (Group A) in the energy, transport and
infrastructure sectors; and (b) the design and implementation of financial recovery plans for 48
SOEs (Group B)12 which had to be privatized or liquidated by the end of the Isolation Program.
These 78 SOEs accounted for about 50 percent of SOE losses in 1995. The immediate objective
of the Isolation Program was to impose a hard budget constraint on these enterprises by
temporarily isolating them from the banking system. A working group within the Ministry of
Finance reviewed and approved the financial recovery plans, which would determine how much
the enterprises could borrow. The financial recovery plans included the drawing up of
conciliation agreements with banks to work out existing enterprise debts. The Isolation Program,
originally designed to expire on December 31, 1998, ended on June 30, 1999.
3.36      With the exception of NEK, the performance of the Group A SOEs has been
disappointing. The Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ) had an operating loss of $50 million out of
revenues of $167 million in 1998. During the same period, the District Heating Companies
(DHCs) had a combined operating loss of $38 million on $196 million of revenues, and the coal
mines had a consolidated operating loss of $20 million on $150 million of sales. Wages have
increased despite increasing losses in many of the companies. However, the Isolation Program
was successful in ensuring that all Group B SOEs exited the program through privatization or
" Bulgargaz has the monopoly in the importation and distribution of gas.
12 The number of Group B SOEs was originally 41 but later increased to 48 due to the break-up of the large mining
company, Gorubso.



- 13 -
bankruptcy/liquidation. Out of the 48 Group B SOEs, 32 were privatized, 13 are being
liquidated, and the rest are under court supervised insolvency proceedings.
3.37     Enterprise-specific Measures for Group A SOEs. While the Isolation Program was
successful in limiting access to credit by the SOEs in the program, the restructuring objective for
the Group A SOEs has not been achieved. Many of the Group A SOEs continue to be loss-
making and receive subsidies from the budget. To address the problem, the Government
developed for the Group A SOEs both short term plans to contain the losses and longer term
solutions involving fundamental restructuring and privatization.
3.38      With respect to the 18 DHCs, the Government increased heating tariffs by 30 percent
effective September 1, 1998 and by another 12 percent effective July 5, 1999. This has
improved the financial position of the DHCs by reducing operating losses before subsidy by
almost 40 percent. In addition, the Council of Ministers approved the long term plans for DHCs
which include both efficiency improvement measures and privatization. A Bank-financed
District Heating Project is being prepared to support the energy efficiency improvement
measures, and the Government will start privatizing the DHCs in 2000.
3.39      With respect to BDZ, which is the largest loss-maker among the Group A SOEs, the
short term program involves the sale or closure of 13 non-core manufacturing plants, of which
eight have already been divested and the remainder will be sold or closed by December 31, 1999.
The Government has also prepared the long term plan of BDZ which includes strategies for
spinning off, privatizing, or closing certain operations. Implementation of the long term plan
will begin in 2000. With respect to NEK, while the company has been profitable, the
Government is nonetheless pursuing a restructuring and privatization program which is described
in the section on Energy Restructuring below. With respect to the energy related coal SOEs and
the briquette factory, the Government will close the non-viable operations and privatize the rest
by December 31, 2000.
3.40      Measures to Reduce Enterprise Arrears. While bank lending to the SOE sector has
declined, there has been a marked increase in enterprise arrears to NEK, Bulgargaz, the Tax
Office, and the National Social Security Institute. In order to address this problem, the
Government has instituted or will implement the following measures.
*  NEK and Bulgargaz have begun enforcing collection policies such that deliveries to clients
with more than 30 days receivables will be suspended unless paid for in advance. In
addition, both NIEK and Bulgargaz have negotiated the rescheduling of arrears with
enterprises.
* The Government has developed an action plan to improve the operations of Bulgargaz as
well as liberalize the gas market over time. By March 31, 2000, the Government will issue
international tenders for the establishment of private regional gas distribution companies. By
2006, the Government will eliminate the monopoly of Bulgargaz on gas imports in line with
the program for developing the gas market in accordance with EU directives.



- 14-
*  The Government will spin off regional distribution companies from NEK by December 31,
1999 and put them up for sale after formulating an optimal privatization strategy. The
majority of these regional power distribution companies will be privatized during the year
2000, thereby improving collection efforts and incentives in the power sector.
*  The Parliament is expected to pass the Tax Procedure Code which provides better capability
for the Government to deal with SOEs with arrears to the Government.'3 The Government
will set up by January 1, 2000 an Agency for the Collection of State Claims under the
Ministry of Finance. This agency will have broad powers to deal with large arrears to the
Government.
*  The pension reform working group has incorporated provisions in the draft Social Security
Code that would improve the ability of the NSSI to deal with enterprises in arrears, similar to
the capabilities of the Tax Office. The Social Security Code is currently in Parliament and
passage is expected by December 31, 1999.
3.41      Bankruptcy and Liquidation Reform. There is consensus among the policy makers
that the existing bankruptcy regime does not provide an appropriate framework for the speedy
liquidation of insolvent SOEs. While the existing insolvency legislation in Part IV of the
Commercial Code promulgated in 1994 is, on the whole, carefully crafted on the basis of the
recent corresponding Gennan statute, there is little local experience to date in its application,
whether in respect of SOEs or private enterprises. Bankruptcy proceedings are slow and
cumbersome and there are certain features of the law and practice which, if not corrected, will
continue to result in long procedural delays. The Government is pursuing reform in two areas.
3.42      First, the Code of Civil Procedure will be overhauled and Part IV of the Commercial
Code will be amended to address some of the current problems, such as incompetent trustees and
lack of clarity of the operations and rights of creditors' committees. The Council of Ministers
has submitted to the Parliament amendments to the Commercial Code to improve the process of
winding down or sale of enterprises through the court system. In addition, the Council of
Ministers has set up an interministerial committee to address more complex issues with regards
to insolvency, such as the structure of the court system.
3.43      Second, the Government is developing a program for upgrading skills of those
involved in bankruptcy and liquidation, including judges, trustees, lawyers, accountants,
appraisers, as well as managers of creditor institutions and of debtor enterprises. In the short run,
the Council of Ministers has established a unit to set standards for the selection, removal, and
performance of the liquidators for SOEs. This unit will serve as a pilot for a permanent unit that
will cover the liquidators of all commercial enterprises.
3.44      Monitoring Financial Discipline and Fiscal Risk.  By the middle of 2000, the
divestiture of the SOEs in the first phase of the privatization program and the privatization of
most of the public sector banks should be completed. In the context of a new structure of the
economy and the emergence of new types of risk that may have a potential fiscal impact, the
'3 The Government plans to unify the arrears collection activities of the Tax Office, the National Social Security
Institute, the Health Insurance Fund, and the Professional Qualification and Unemployment Fund.



- 15 -
Ministry of Finance has designed a monitoring system that would provide policy makers with
early warning signals. The Ministry of Finance will monitor the developments in the financial
structure and operating perfornance of the enterprise sector and the resource flows from the
financial sector. BNB will continue to monitor the activities of the banking system, and the
Government will ensure that, where appropriate, other segments of the financial system have the
necessary regulatory framework and supervision capability. The Government will be working
with the Bank in developing capabilities to manage risks in a private sector dominated market
economy.
Energy Sector Restructuring
3.45      Energy Sector Restructuring Program. The Government has adopted a refonn
program for the energy sector to restore its financial viability and ensure efficient allocation of
resources. The plan is to phase out all subsidies, initiate appropriate pricing mechanisms, and
create a regulatory environment that is conducive to private sector participation in the energy
sector so that much of the needed resources for investment can be attracted on commercial terms
without incurring excessive budgetary liabilities and risk. The core elements of the program
include:
* Progressive increase of tariffs
*  Establishment of a sound legal and regulatory framework
* Liberalization of the market for electricity generation
* Break-up of NEK into separate entities for generation, transmission, and distribution
* Privatization of major non-nuclear assets.
3.46      The Council of Ministers approved the Energy Sector Restructuring Action Plan,
1998-2001 and the National Energy Strategy until 2010. The Government's stated goal is the
restructuring of sector enterprises through a process of commercialization, financial
rehabilitation, operation under market mechanisms, and privatization. To enable effective
private investment, the Government needs to create clear, transparent and stable legal, policy-
making and regulatory framework which will minimize the risk premium associated with private
investment capital so that reliable energy supply is maintained at the least cost.
3.47      In 1999, the NEK raised electricity prices twice: (a) by an average of 8.8 percent
effective January 1, 1999 (6.6 percent for industrial consumers and 13.9 percent for residential
consumers); and (b) by another average of 4.1 percent effective July 5, 1999 (1.1 percent for
industrial consumers and 10.7 percent for residential consumers).
3.48      In July 1999, the Parliament passed the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency which
provides for: (a) private ownership of energy assets; (b) a clear separation of policy-making,
regulatory, and ownership functions; (c) an autonomous regulatory authority to set regulated
tariffs, issue licenses, and regulate market structure and rules to enable competition and



- 16 -
transparent regulation; (d) a legal and non-discriminatory basis for generators to enter into direct
supply contracts with eligible customers beginning from 2002; and (e) an open regulatory
process. On the basis of the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency, the Government established
the State Commission for Energy Regulation and appointed its members. By March 31, 2000,
the Government will adopt the regulations envisaged under the Law on Energy and Energy
Efficiency.
3.49     NEK has completed the accounting separation of its generation, transmission, and
distribution functions.  The plan is to establish the electricity distribution companies by
December 31, 1999, and the electricity generation companies and transmission company by June
30, 2000. The privatization of most of the electricity distribution companies will begin in 2000.
3.50     District Heating Companies. Losses of DHCs have been a source of intransparent
quasi-fiscal operations and cross-subsidization through extra-budgetary funds which situation
has contributed to a culture of non-payment in the energy sector. The long term solution is to
rehabilitate DHCs by attracting private investors and operators, which would require the
establishment of enabling legal, regulatory and policy conditions in the heat sub-sector. In the
meantime, there is an urgent need to improve the efficiency of heat supply and to provide
consumers with the means to measure and control their consumption.
3.51     To ensure transparent operations, the Government closed the Energy Resource Fund,
which was a major source of subsidies, at end-1998 and replaced it with direct budget financing.
The Government has been phasing out subsidies by gradually increasing district heating prices.
On October 1, 1998, the Government increased heat tariffs by 30 percent which enabled the
DHCs to cover fuel prices, or about 70 percent of direct costs of most DHCs. The Government
implemented an additional 12 percent increase on July 5, 1999, which allowed most DHCs to
cover all direct costs prior to the October 1, 1999 15.4 percent hike in gas prices. The impact of
this price increase on the financial condition has yet to be assessed and it may be necessary to
consider a second increase in district heating tariffs before the end of the heating season or to
increase subsidies to the companies.
3.52     Mines. The State Agency for Energy and Energy Resources is in the process of
finalizing its assessment of economically viable and nonviable mines. The mine restructuring
program is being closely coordinated with the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, and the State
Agency for Energy and Energy Resource expects the privatization of viable mining companies
and the closure of nonviable mines to be largely completed by December 31, 2000.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Description and Objectives
4.01     The proposed loan, in the amount of Euro 95.5 million, will be a LIBOR-based
single currency loan with a maturity of 20 years, including a five year grace period, at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based loans in Euro. It will provide fast disbursing funds for
balance of payment assistance in support of Bulgaria's structural reform program.
4.02      The Government, in cooperation with the Bank and the IMF, would aim at sustaining
the implementation of essential structural reforms while continuing to maintain a stable
macroeconomic framework. The proposed loan would support ongoing efforts to: (a) accelerate
the privatization or liquidation of SOEs; (b) sustain banking reform focusing on the privatization
of banks and upgrading of supervision capacity; (c) maintain financial discipline in the enterprise
sector; and (d) restructure the energy sector.
4.03     The authorities presented to the Bank a Letter of Development Policy, which was
found to be satisfactory, attached as Annex 1. Agreement on the Policy and Action Matrix,
which is attached as Annex 2, was confirmed during negotiations on October 22, 1999.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.04     Following the economic and financial crisis of early 1997, the new Government
moved decisively to implement a program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural
reformns. A major component of the reforms was the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Program (FESAP), whose initial phase was supported by the Bank's Critical Imports
Rehabilitation Loan approved in May 1997, and by the first Financial Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Loan approved on October 1997. The proposed FESAL II is part of a coherent
package of support to the FESAP, which has since been redesigned to accelerate and deepen the
structural reforms. The proposed FESAL II would support the critical phase of the FESAP
during which the privatization of major SOEs and public sector banks are being completed and
financial discipline efforts are being sustained.
4.05     The deepening of Bulgaria's reformn process is dependent on continued international
support to help meet its external financing needs under the three-year extended arrangement
agreed with the IMF. Unforeseen developments beyond Bulgaria's control have increased the
financing gap for 1999. The external environment has weakened more than expected, partner
country demand has slowed, world prices for key exports continue to fall, and international
.investors remain cautious. The external current account deficit is estimated to reach as high as
5.6 percent of GDP in 1999 with moderate growth in import volumes and a further decline in
export volumes. The Kosovo crisis contributed to the increase in the financing gap through the
loss of direct and transit trade and reduced tourism receipts.
4.06     Pledges from Bulgaria's development partners at the joint G-24 Consultative Group
Meeting on April 21, 1999 successfully bridged the financing needs estimated prior to the impact
of the Kosovo crisis. Some multilateral and bilateral agencies increased their pledges in



- 18-
response to the Kosovo crisis. The Government and the international community need to
continue to make concerted efforts to successfully tackle the challenge presented by the
weakened external environment. For its part, the Government is already adjusting its economic
program. It has tightened the fiscal stance and reaffirmed Bulgaria's commitment to continued
structural reforms, in particular, the privatization and liquidation of SOEs, the reform of the
banking system, and the imposition of financial discipline on the enterprise sector. But policy
adjustment alone will not be sufficient. The international community also needs to do its share
by mobilizing timely balance-of-payments support on concessional terms, given Bulgaria's
already high debt burden, to avoid the need for a further significant contraction of economic
activity.
Composition and Quality of the Bank Portfolio
4.07      Total Bank lending to Bulgaria comprises 19 operations for a total loan amount of
US$1,219.2 million. This includes seven adjustment operations (US$700 million), eleven
investment loans (US$509.3 million), and a Bank-managed Global Environmental Fund (GEF)
grant for US$9.9 million. Of these 19 loans, six have been completed, two have been canceled,
and another eleven14 are currently under implementation. The operations that are currently under
implementation are designed to help upgrade social protection and health services, support
community-based development, support environmental remediation, and develop energy, water
supply, and railway infrastructure. The active investment portfolio comprises ten loans with
commitments totaling US$368.4 million (including the Bank-administered GEF grant). In
addition, two adjustment operations-the Social Protection Adjustment Loan (US$80 million)
and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Euro7l million)-are providing balance-of-
payments support. The undisbursed balances for all loans as of September 30, 1999 total
US$192.3 million.
4.08      The performance of the Bulgaria portfolio has made a remarkable turnaround in
recent years.  During the FY94-96 period, about one-half of the projects were rated
unsatisfactory for either Development Objectives or Implementation Progress. The disbursement
ratio was also low-in the five to seven percent range, compared to an ECA average of about 18
percent. As of June 30, 1998, the number of unsatisfactory projects had dropped to 38 percent of
the total, and the disbursement ratio had increased to about 23 percent. Bulgaria's portfolio has
improved further since then. As of April 30, 1999, all problem projects have been upgraded to
satisfactory and the disbursement ratio is about 21 percent, exceeding the ECA average of about
13.4 percent. These results exceed the milestones agreed in FY98 in the context of the CAS.
4.09      This turnaround is the result of several initiatives: the integration of portfolio issues
into all aspects of the country dialogue; proactive Bulgaria Country Office based supervision;
regular portfolio performance reviews carried out jointly by the Government and the Bank,
accompanied by decisive action to restructure or cancel non-performing loans; and more
recently, the establishment of a unit for coordination of Bank-supported activities at the level of
the Council of Ministers. The Bank and the Government intend to maintain the increased level
of attention to portfolio management through general dialogue, regular project supervision, and
the joint portfolio review process.
14 Two of these operations have been restructured.



- 19 -
Country Assistance Strategy and FESAL II
4.10      The latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board on
April 28, 1998. The CAS focused on supporting Goverrnent efforts to underpin the progress in
macroeconomic stabilization with durable structural reforms. In particular, the CAS supported
the priority given by the Government in accelerating reforms in the enterprise and financial
sectors, in parallel with initiatives that would restructure social protection programs and cushion
vulnerable groups from the impact of the reforms. The proposed FESAL II and planned FESAL
III were envisioned as the main instruments to support 'progress in the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Program (FESAP), along with technical assistance from other development
partners (EU, USAID, and PHRD). The recently approved Social Protection Adjustment Loan
(SPAL) and Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) will complement the FESALs. LFC
has recently approved an investment in one of the privatized banks.
Loan Amount and Tranching
4.11      All conditions for Board presentation have been fulfilled. The proposed FESAL II
would be a one tranche operation. Upon loan effectiveness, the Bank would withdraw from the
Loan Account a fee amounting to Euro 955,000 while the remaining funds amounting to Euro
94.545 million would be released to the Borrower. The loan would be repayable in twenty years,
including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single
currency loans in Euro.
Loan Conditions
SOE Privatization'5 and Liquidation Program
*  SOEs equivalent to at least 80 percent of long term assets of SOEs in the PATA
program have either been sold16 or placed under liquidation or insolvency proceedings.
By March 31, 2000, the PATA program will be completed.
*  SOEs equivalent to at least 85 percent of the long term assets of SOEs under the
responsibility of the Privatization Agency have either been sold or placed under
liquidation or insolvency proceedings. By March 31, 2000, all of the SOEs under the
responsibility of the PA will either be privatized or placed under liquidation or
insolvency proceedings.
*  SOEs equivalent to at least 30 percent of the long term assets of SOEs in the Pool
program have either been sold or placed under liquidation or insolvency proceedings.
By March 31, 2000, the Pool program, covering eight pools, will be completed.
*  SOEs equivalent to at least 80 percent of long term assets of small SOEs under the line
ministries have either been sold or placed under liquidation or insolvency proceedings.
5 An SOE is considered privatized when at least 67 percent of its equity is transferred to private owners.
16 An SOE is considered sold when the privatization contract is signed and a down payment is made.



- 20 -
By March 31, 2000, the small scale privatization program will be completed. By
March 31, 2000, the line ministries will complete the sale of, or place under liquidation
or bankruptcy proceedings, the large SOEs whose responsibility for privatization was
transferred in July 1999 by the PA to the line ministries.
* All SOEs under liquidation proceedings as of June 30, 1999 have ceased operations
with the exception of two SOEs which have outstanding production contracts.
However, by March 31, 2000, these two SOEs will have ceased operations.
* The assets of at least 140 out of the 280 SOEs under liquidation proceedings as of June
30, 1999 have been sold or transferred to the private sector. By December 31, 2000,
the assets of all SOEs under liquidation as of June 30, 2000 will be sold or transferred
to the private sector.
* The packages of the residual shares in at least 50 percent of the privatized enterprises
as of June 30, 1999 have been sold to the private sector.1' By December 31, 2000, all
residual shares of the State in privatized enterprises as of June 30, 2000 will be sold.
Financial Discipline
 All Group B SOEs have exited the Isolation Program through privatization18 or
initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings. By June 30, 2000, the assets of all
Group B SOEs under liquidation will be sold.
* The Government has increased heating tariffs by 30 percent effective September 1,
1998 and by another 12 percent effective July 5, 1999.
* The Govermnent has submitted long term plans acceptable to the Bank for the District
Heating Companies. Beginning January 2000, the Government will implement these
plans, including the privatization and restructuring of DHCs.
*  The Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ), which is the largest loss-maker among the Group
A SOEs, has sold or closed eight non-core manufacturing plants. By December 31,
1999, BDZ will sell or close another five non-core manufacturing plants.
* The Government has submitted a long term restructuring plan for BDZ acceptable to
the Bank. The restructuring plan contains strategies for spinning off, privatizing, or
closing certain operations of BDZ. Beginning January 2000, the Government will
begin implementation of the plan.
17 This excludes those shares reserved for restitution or for employees, or those shares subject to legal proceedings.
The shares reserved for employees will have to be disposed of by June 30, 2000.
18 The Government has sold 65 percent of one defense company to the private sector, and decided to hold the
remaining 35 percent due to the sensitive nature of the company's production. All other privatizations of Group B
SOEs involved the sale of at least 67 percent of equity to the private sector.



- 21 -
*  The Government has submitted the long term plans acceptable to the Bank for the
privatization or liquidation of seven collieries from the mining companies and the
briquette factory under Group A of the Isolation Program. By December 31, 2000, the
Government will either privatize or liquidate the mining companies and the briquette
factory.
* The Government has begun implementation of the action plan of Bulgargaz approved
by the Bank. Arrears to Bulgargaz have not increased beyond the level as of June 30,
1999. By March 31, 2000, the Government will issue international tenders for the
establishment of private regional gas distribution companies.
*  NEK has begun implementation of the agreement among the Bank, NEK, and the State
Agency for Energy and Energy Resources on the actions to improve the collection
activities of NEK. Arrears to NEK have not increased beyond the level as of June 30,
1999. To improve collection efforts in the future, NEK will spin off regional power
distribution companies by December 31, 1999 and beginning January 2000 start the
process of privatizing them.
*  The Parliarnent has begun second reading of, and is expected to pass, the Tax
Procedure Code which includes provisions for the improvement of the ability of the
Government to deal with enterprises with arrears. By January 1, 2000, an Agency for
Collecting State Claims in the Ministry of Finance will be established to deal with
collection of state receivables.
-  The Pension Reform Working Group has incorporated provisions in the Social Security
Code acceptable to the Bank that would improve the ability of the NSSI to deal with
enterprises with social security contribution arrears.
-  The Council of Ministers has created a unit under its jurisdiction which will set
standards, train, select, and generally supervise the SOE liquidators. The Government
will submit quarterly reports to the Bank on the status of SOEs under liquidation.
*  The Council of Ministers has submitted to Parliament amendments to the Commercial
Code acceptable to the Bank which would result in faster, more efficient, and more
transparent windup or sale of private and state owned enterprises through the court
system. The Government will submit quarterly reports to the Bank on the status of
SOEs under insolvency proceedings.
*  The Council of Ministers has set up an inter-ministerial commission to begin the
analysis of the current legislation relating to insolvency and recommend amendments
covering court structure and processes dealing with all commercial entities. By
December 31, 1999, the results of the review should be completed. By June 30, 2000,
the Council of Ministers will submit to Parliament amendments to the existing
legislation based on the results of the review.



- 22 -
* The Ministry of Finance has designed a system, acceptable to the Bank, for monitoring
financial discipline in the economy. The system will be operational on January 1, 2000
and beginning March 31, 2000, the Government will submit to the Bank quarterly
reports on financial discipline.
Banking Reform
* The Bank Consolidation Company has completed the privatization transaction,
including full payment, with respect to the sale of Postbank.
* The Bank Consolidation Company has signed a share purchase agreement with Societe
General and received the down payment with respect to the sale of Expressbank. The
full payment will be made upon approval of the agreement by the Bulgarian National
Bank, expected by December 31, 1999.
* The Bank Consolidation Company has begun review of offers from interested bidders
which responded to the Invitation to Bid issued in early August 1999. By March 31,
2000, the Bank Consolidation Company will complete the sale of Hebrosbank.
* The Bank Consolidation Company has issued the Invitation to Bid with respect to the
sale of Bulbank. By June 30, 2000, the Bank Consolidation Company will complete
the sale of Bulbank.
*  The Bank Consolidation Company has approved the Information Memorandum and
started the marketing process with respect to the sale of Biochim. By June 30, 2000,
the Bank Consolidation Company will complete the sale of Biochim.
- By June 30, 2000, the Government will reduce its direct and indirect shareholdings in
the Central Cooperative Bank to 33 percent or less. Until the Central Cooperative
Bank has met the capital adequacy requirement, the Central Cooperative Bank will not
increase its loan portfolio beyond the level as of June 30, 1999. There will be no
increase in the capital of the Central Cooperative Bank through the infusion of public
resources.
* The Bulgarian National Bank continues to ensure that the Memorandum of
Understanding between the Bulgarian National Bank and the State Savings Bank is
implemented. The Bulgarian National Bank will submit to the Bank semi-annual
reports on the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding.
* The State Savings Bank has submitted a three year strategic plan acceptable to the
Bank. The Government will begin the process of privatizing SSB in January 2001.
* The Bulgarian National Bank continues to ensure that all banks are meeting the
prudential standards, and that actions have been taken against those banks which are
not in compliance with any prudential standard or regulation.



- 23 -
*  The Bulgarian National Bank has introduced amendments to the Law on Banks to
improve the capability of the Bulgarian National Bank to deal with problem banks. By
March 31, 2000, the working group established to address the issue of problem banks
will submit draft legislative amendments to enable the Deposit Insurance Fund to
strengthen its capability to administer banks that will be liquidated in the future.
* The auction of the assets of eleven closed banks where the Government owns the
majority of the claims, has begun. By December 31, 1999, the Ministry of Finance will
take over the assets of 11 closed banks as per agreed plan with the Bank and the IMF.
*  The Bulgarian National Bank continues to monitor the SOE lending portfolio of the
remaining public sector banks, including the Central Cooperative Bank, the Business
Promotion Bank, and the Municipality Bank of Sofia.19 The Bulgarian National Bank
will submit quarterly reports on the lending portfolio of these banks.
Energy Restructuring
*  The Parliament has enacted the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency in July 1999.
By March 31, 2000, the Government will adopt all regulations envisaged under the
Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency.
*  The Government has established an independent regulatory body (the State
Commission for Energy Regulation) to enforce the Law on Energy and Energy
Efficiency as well as subsequent regulations. The Government has appointed members
of the State Commission for Energy Regulation.
*  The National Electricity Company raised electricity prices by 8.8 percent average on
January 1, 1999 (6.6 percent for industrial consumers and 13.9 percent for residential
consumers) and 4.1 percent average on July 5, 1999 (1.1 percent for industrial
consumers and 10.7 percent for residential consumers).
*  The National Electricity Company has completed the accounting separation of its
generation, transmission, and distribution functions. By December 31, 1999, the State
Agency for Energy and Energy Resources will approve the establishment of new legal
entities to carry out the distribution, generation, and transmission functions. By
December 31, 1999, the electricity distribution companies will be established. By June
30, 2000, the power generation companies and the power transmission company will
be established.
*  The State Agency for Energy and Energy Resources has begun implementing the
agreed three year Action Plan for restructuring, subsidy elimination, and financial
recovery of commercial companies in the energy sector, including the privatization of
most of the energy sector's generation and distribution assets.
19 The Government does not consider the Municipality Bank of Sofia as a public sector bank. Nonetheless, BNB
will submit quarterly reports on its portfolio.



- 24-
Disbursement and Procurement
4.12     In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the Simplification
of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans, funds
disbursed under the proposed FESAL II will be released against satisfactory progress in the
reforms set forth in the loan.  Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, thus
evidence will not be needed to support disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be
necessary.
Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
4.13     The Government will maintain accounts and records, or ensure that such items are
maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with provisions of the Loan
Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a form acceptable to the Bank.
The external auditor of BNB will conduct an annual review of the deposit account opened by the
Government in BNB to exclusively hold the loan proceeds. The terms of reference of the review
should be acceptable to the Bank. The review will examine and report on the disbursements
from the deposit account until such time that all the loan proceeds have been fully utilized. Such
reviews will be submitted to the Bank as soon as they are completed. The Bank may require a
more extensive audit of such records by independent auditors.
Implementation and Monitoring of Development Impact
4.14     Reporting requirements will ensure that the Bank is able to monitor developments in
certain areas of special concern. The Governnent will submit quarterly reports on the financial
condition and sources and uses of fimds of the remaining SOEs. The Government will also
submit regular reports on arrears to the National Electricity Company, Bulgargaz, the Tax Office,
and the National Social Security Institute. BNB will provide quarterly reports on the financial
condition of banks and the lending activities of public sector banks. The Privatization Agency
and the line ministries will provide monthly reports on the status of the privatization program.
BCC will provide quarterly reports on the status of the privatization of the public sector banks.
Environmental Implications of FESAL II
4.15     To ensure that environmental concerns are taken into account in the privatization
program, the Government established the Environment and Privatization Support Prograrn which
provides an overall framework for dealing with past and future environmental liabilities.
Environmental Impact Assessments are required as part of privatization procedures for large
SOEs, some of which may be required to develop a Remediation Plan and/or Compliance Plan.
Privatization is bound to have a positive impact on compliance with environmental regulations.
The proposed loan has been examined by ECSSD and placed in the Environmental Category B.



- 25 -
Potential Risks
4.16     The main risk is the delay in the implementation of the structural reforms, mainly the
privatization of SOEs and PSBs. There are several ways in which the proposed operation
minimizes risk of poor performance in the implementation of reforms.  First, the main
conditionalities represent substantial progress in the implementation of the Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program. The proposed loan requires the privatization or initiation
of liquidation or insolvency procedures of about 75 percent of long terms assets of SOEs,
including the largest loss makers, in sectors other than energy, transport and infrastructure; the
privatization of at least two public sector banks and the advanced stage of privatization
procedures for another three public sector banks; and the establishment of the legal and
regulatory framework for energy restructuring and privatization. Second, the conditionalities
have been fulfilled prior to Board presentation, hence there is no risk that the Government will
not meet the immediate actions supported by the proposed loan. A planned FESAL III will
ensure that the Govermment will sustain the implementation of the structural reforms and ensure
post privatization restructuring. Third, the proposed FESAL II is complemented by the IMF's
program under the extended facility. The Bank and the IMF have worked closely on the design
of the FESAP and on the timing and content of supporting operations. Fourth, Bulgaria's
development partners have been providing and will continue to provide assistance in ensuring
the successful implementation of the Government's FESAP. Bulgaria's development partners
have provided the funding for the implementation of the privatization of large SOEs,
privatization of PSBs, and the Isolation Program, and have committed to provide technical
assistance for bankruptcy reform.
Collaboration with the IMF, US, EU, and Japan
4.17     The preparation of FESAL II is supported by a PHRD grant from the Government of
Japan. The EU and USAID have also provided extensive technical assistance to the Government
in the implementation of the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program. The
preparation of the FESAL II Policy Matrix has been developed in close coordination with the
IMF.



- 26 -
V. RECOMMENDATION
5.01      I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by
Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
November 3, 1999



Annex 1
- 27 -                     Page l of 15
SECOND FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMNT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
November 1, 1999
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
Intemnational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
The attachment to this letter describes the Financial and Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Program (FESAP) which the Government of Bulgaria is implementng with
the objective of accelerating and deepening the process of transformation to a market
economy. In particular, the FESAP aims at accelerating the pnivalization of state-owned
enterprises and public sector banks, cstablishing the enabling environment for
restructuring and cfFective governance, sustining the progress in banking reform,
maintaining financial discipline in the remaining state-owned enterprises, and
restructuring the energy sector. The FESAP is consistent with the medium term program
agreed with the International Monetary Fund in the context of the three-year Fxtended
Axrangement approved on September 25, 1998.
The Bank supported the design and initial phase of the implementation of the
FESAP with the Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan and the first Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustmcnt Loan, both of which were approved in 1997. We have
since then improved on the program design by addressing many of the constraints to the
acceleration of the privatization process, including issues relating to social protection and
environment. We have also included in the FESAP a program for restructuring the
energy sector focusing on private sector investment
We are requesting a second FinanciaI and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan in the
amount of USS100 million equivalent to support continued implementation of the
FESAP. The proposed loan is especially timely due to the financial pressures excrted by
the recent Kosovo crisis. The Japanese Govenmment is considering to co-finance the
proposed Bank loan with a Japan Bank for Intemational Cooperation Loan of US$50
million. In addition, we have commitmnents for continued financing of technical
assistance from several donor agencies.
Sincerely yours,
Ale   er Bozhkov                                 Svetoslav Gavriiski
D  uty Prime Minister                            Governor
nister of Industry                             Bulgarian National Bank



- 28 -                           Annex 1
Page 2 of 15
BULGARIA
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Background
1.   Following the economic and financial crisis of late 1996 and early 1997, the
Government of Bulgaria successfully stabilized the economy and revitalized long-
delayed structural reforms under the economic program supported by IBRD (Bank) and
the IMF (Fund) in 1997 with the first Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
(FESAL I) and the Stand-By Arrangement (SBA). The economy has recovered from the
deep crisis, the price level has stabilized, and the fiscal reserve account has strengthened.
The centerpiece of the stabilization strategy was the adoption of a Currency Board
Arrangement (CBA) supported by prudent fiscal and incomes policies. The 1998 results
have been gratifying: GDP grew by 3.5 percent, end of year inflation was one percent,
and there was a fiscal surplus of one percent.
2.   We recognize that the immediate challenge is to sustain the success in stabilization
with durable structural reforms combined with restored confidence in public institutions.
Our priorities in the structural areas are. to complete the privatization of State-owned
enterprises (SOEs) and public sector banks (PSBs), to sustain banking reform and deepen
financial markets, to improve and restructure social safety net programs, to reform the
agricultural and energy sectors, to further liberalize the trade regime, and to develop the
administrative, legal, and judicial institutions necessary to underpin a competitive market
economy.
3.   We expect that these policies will raise productivity and attract a significant amount
of investment which will sustain higher growth over the medium term. We will rely on
investment from the private sector, especially foreign direct investment, and will put in
place policies that will ensure the efficiency of such investment.  Successful
implementation of structural reforms and liberalization measures will be the key to
raising living standards on a sustainable basis. Incomes and wages have the potential to
grow significantly over the next three years as comprehensive structural reforms yield
large productivity gains.
4.   The Kosovo conflict had a negative impact on Bulgaria's economic and external
balance developments. The closure of the border with FR Yugoslavia in late March 1999
resulted in direct and transit trade losses. A large part of Bulgaria's exports were rerouted
at much higher cost, while transit trade remained blocked even after the end of the
military campaign. There was also some limited negative effect on tourism. The conflict
affected investor confidence and a number of large privatization deals were put on hold.
However, after the war investor confidence revived quite rapidly, and foreign direct
investment is now expected to be higher than initially projected for 1999. Nonetheless,
the Kosovo conflict increased the overall balance-of-payments financing needs of
Bulgaria for 1999 by about one percent of GDP, which implies a substantial increase in
the balance-of-payments gap. We estimate that the negative impact on growth was about
1.5 percent.
5.   We continue to be committed to the implementation of the Financial and Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Program, which has four main themes: (a) privatization and
liquidation of SOEs; (b) reform of the banking system; (c) imposition of financial



- 29 -                                  Annex 1
Page 3 of 15
discipline; and (d) restructuring of the energy sector. These are described in the
following sections.
Privatization and Liquidation of SOEs
6.   The Privatization Strategy and Program. In 1997, compared to other transition
economies, Bulgaria ranked close to the bottom in terms of privatization of SOEs. With
the stabilization program of 1997, we embarked on a sweeping privatization program that
had two phases': (a) the divestiture of SOEs in sectors other than energy, transport and
infrastructure accounting for about 63 percent of total SOE long term assets (LTA); and
(b) the privatization of most of assets of SOEs in the energy, transport and infrastructure
sectors accounting for about 37 percent of LTA.
7.   The first phase of the privatization program  has the following components:
(a) privatization of the largest and most important SOEs to strategic investors using
mainly international privatization agents; (b) privatization of smaller SOEs mainly
through auctions, tenders, and negotiated sales; and (c) liquidation of those SOEs in the
sectors other than energy, infrastructure, and transport whose privatization does not
materialize. For large SOEs, the sale of controlling stakes to strategic investors aims to
ensure effective governance and restructuring. For the smaller SOEs, the privatization
methods focus on speed and transparency.
8.   The second phase of the privatization program involves: (a) the establishment of
the legal and regulatory framework that would enable the privatization of sectors with
natural monopoly characteristics; (b) the restructuring of these sectors to facilitate
privatization and private sector participation; and (c) the implementation of actions prior
to privatization that would improve efficiency in operations of SOEs in the energy,
transport and infrastructure sectors. While we are establishing the framework that
maximizes privatization and private sector participation in these sectors, we will continue
to rationalize tariffs, divest non-core operations, and improve revenue collections. While
we expect to sell most of the assets of SOEs in the energy, transport and infrastructure
sectors, there are certain assets that will continue to be in Government hands, such as the
nuclear power plant and the transmission grid of the National Electricity Company.
9.   First Phase of the Privatization Program. Under the first phase of the privatization
program, some 530 large SOEs in sectors other than energy, transport and infrastructure
were slated for privatization or liquidation. The privatization of 31 of the largest and
most important SOEs accounting for about 24 percent of LTA of SOEs in the first phase
of the privatization program involves the appointment of international privatization
agents under the Privatization Advisors and Transaction Agents (PATA) program and
other programs financed by donors and the Bank. An additional 52 large SOEs and
holdings accounting for about eight percent of LTA were grouped into eight pools with
l The total LTA for privatization amount to some BGL 599 billion based on 1995 data. The first phase of
the privatization program covers BGL 376.5 billion in terms of LTA, or 63% of total. Note: In July 1999,
we introduced the new lev (BGN) to replace the old lev (BGL). BGJL 1,000 is equal to BGN 1.
2 SOEs whose long term assets were above BGL 1 billion (about $560,000) based on the 1997 asset
revaluation were considered large enterprises. The responsibility for the privatization of large SOEs was
given to the PA, which manages the PATA and Pool programs and also directly handles the privatization of
many of the large SOEs. In July 1999, the PA transferred the responsibility of privatization of 60 large
SOEs to the line mninistries.



- 30 _                           Annex I
Page 4 of 15
each pool assigned to a privatization agent. The line ministries are responsible for the
privatization of 60 large SOEs representing about five percent of LTA, and the
Privatization Agency is directly handling the privatization of the remaining large SOEs
accounting for about 32 percent of LTA. The privatization of about 3,000 small SOEs3
accounting for about 31 percent of LTA is managed by the line ministries. Competitive
auctions and negotiated sales in the context of Management and Employee Buy-outs
(MEBOs) have been the dominant methods used in the privatization of small SOEs.
10.  The Mass Privatization Program  (MPP)4 launched in late 1996 covered 1,050
enterprises. Vouchers were distributed to about three million citizens. Three auctions
were held during 1996-97 resulting in the privatization of 666 SOEs representing about
14 percent of long term assets under the first phase of the privatization program. In 1998,
investment vouchers were offered to about six million eligible citizens and a centralized
public auction scheme was designed where shares of SOEs were to be sold for both cash
and investment vouchers. To date, the number of citizens who have received vouchers
exceed one million. Seven centralized public auctions are scheduled in 1999 to sell
mainly residual shares of the State in privatized enterprises, with the first five auctions
completed and the sixth ongoing.
11. Second Stage of the Privatization Program. The second stage of the privatization
program covers SOEs where privatization is considered difficult, such as in the case of
railways, or where sector restructuring and the establishment of a legal and regulatory
framework are preconditions for privatization, such as in the case of the energy sector.
These SOEs number 133 of which the energy sector accounts for 54 percent in terms of
LTA of SOEs included in the second stage of the privatization program. In this second
stage group of SOEs, the Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ), 18 district heating companies
(DHCs), and the coal mining enterprises are the major loss makers requiring subsidies
from the budget. The other SOEs are mainly in water utilities, ports, airport, and
transport.
12. Performance. As of October 31, 1999, about 75 percent of LTA under the first
phase of the privatization program have been privatized or placed under bankruptcy or
liquidation compared to the 28 percent performance as of September 30, 1997 when
FESAL I was about to go to Board. With respect to the large SOEs, we have completed
the divestiture of 27 SOEs equivalent to about 80 percent of LTA of SOEs in the PATA
program.5 The Pool Privatization program is about 30 percent completed in terms of
LTA with the rest under advanced stages of preparation, and the PA has privatized over
90 percent in equivalent LTA of the SOEs under its mandate. Because the responsibility
for the privatization of 60 large SOEs was only recently transferred to the line ministries,
only one privatization transaction in this group of SOEs has been completed.
Nonetheless, we expect that the privatization of the large SOEs under the first phase will
3 We have excluded from our program the municipal SOEs since the municipalities are beyond the control
of the Government. Nonetheless, there has been substantial progress in the privatization of municipal
SOEs which are estimated to account for less than three percent of LTA of SOEs in sectors other than
energy, transport and infrastructure.
4For reporting purposes, privatization progress under the MPP is counted mainly under the line ministries.
5 We are finalizing the papers with respect to the sale of the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company,
which accounts for 14.8 percent of the PATA program. We have also broken up Agrobiochim into nine
units, of which two have already been privatized.



Annex 1
- 31 -                       Page5 ofi5
be completed by March 31, 2000. With respect to the small SOEs, the line ministries
have completed the sale or placed under liquidation or bankruptcy as of October 31,
1999, about 80 percent of the LTA of small SOEs under their mandate. We expect that
the small scale privatization will be completed by March 31, 2000.
13. We have taken significant steps in establishing the foundation for the
implementation of the second phase of the privatization program. The Parliament
enacted the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency in July 1999. The Government has
recently prepared the long term plans for the DHCs and BDZ, which plans include
privatization and private sector participation components. In addition, the Government
has been shedding the non-core activities of BDZ, preparing the legal separation of the
distribution, transmission, and generation functions of NEK, and introducing competition
through private entry in the gas distribution market.
14. Social Safety Net. We have begun the process of reforming our social protection
programs with three overarching objectives: (a) to ensure adequate protection of clearly
identified vulnerable population groups, especially those adversely affected by structural
reforms, through improved targeting and provision of meaningful benefits and quality
services; (b) to ensure the medium and longer run fiscal sustainability of the social
protection system in a manner consistent with economic growth objectives in a market-
oriented economy; and (c) to increase the fiscal transparency and reduce duplication and
fragmentation among the various social protection programs to the extent feasible.
15. In the area of labor and unemployment, the reforms focus on increasing the
flexibility of labor markets, improving work incentives for the unemployed, and
providing adequate protection for laid-off workers in a fiscally sustainable manner. In
November 1997, Parliament approved the Act on Unemployment Security and
Employment Incentives which provides employment incentives and unemployment
protection consistent with the needs of a market economy. Under this Law, the National
Employment Agency was set up as an independent entity governing the payroll
contribution financed Professional Qualification and Unemployment Fund.
16. In addition to ongoing employment programs, the severance pay scheme set up in
late 1996 to provide special support to workers laid-off as a result of structural reform
measures was significantly expanded in 1997 to provide support to both SOE and budget
sector workers affected by closures and downsizing. To date, about 50,000 workers have
opted for severance pay, with the average payment at BGN 383. Unemployed SOE
workers also have the option to receive unemployment insurance benefits under the
Professional Qualification and Unemployment Fund in lieu of severance pay.
17. Environment. We subscribe to the policy that the implementation of sound policy
reforms aimed at economic recovery and growth, including privatization, will have to be
accompanied by environmental policies and targeted environmental programs in order to
achieve the maximum welfare benefits from economic reforms. Experience in many
countries, including those in Central and Eastern Europe, has shown that uncertainties
about liabilities for past environmental damage and about standards for future
environmental performance increase the risk for investors, hinder the privatization
process, reduce privatization revenues, and leave serious environmental problems
unresolved. There are two separate but linked issues, which must be solved.



Annex I
- 32 -                         Page6ofl5
l The environmental legacy of the past is a major concern especially for sectors
where environmental liabilities are large compared to the value of enterprises.
These sectors include mining and metallurgy, chemicals and petrochemicals, oil
refining and petroleum distribution. The need is for a clear legal framework
backed up by mechanisms for: (a) assessing the magnitude of past liabilities,
(b) developing plans for appropriate remediation and management of the
liabilities, (c) agreeing on the respective responsibilities of the Government (as
seller) and the new owners for implementing and financing these plans, and
(d) dealing with hidden liabilities whose extent and nature only emerge after the
privatization is completed.
e  Few industrial plants are currently able to comply with existing Bulgarian
environmental regulations with respect to their emissions, let alone any future
regulations that will be adopted as Bulgaria moves to implement EU
environmental directives. It is clear that the responsibility for future compliance
with environ-mental regulations must lie with the new owners. However, the
nature of the emission standards that will apply and the time allowed for
compliance with these standards may have a large impact on the valuation of
enterprise and future investment plans. If the time allowed to comply with more
stringent environmental regulations is shortened, the Government has to bear the
costs reflected in reduced privatization revenues.
18. Earlier we did not pay special attention to environmental issues. The lack of
awareness and information about the extent of past environmental liabilities has caused
delays and failure of the privatization of a number of highly polluting enterprises. In
other cases, the lack of attention to environmental issues has resulted in ongoing disputes
and unresolved problems. As we embarked on an ambitious large-scale privatization
program, concerns were raised about the possibility that large and poorly defined
environmental liabilities would deter reputable investors.
19. The Bank assisted the Government with an Environmental Remediation Pilot
Project to help address immediate environmental liabilities at the MDK Copper Smelter,
one of the most polluting enterprises in Bulgaria, in the context of its sale to a strategic
investor. The Environmental Remediation Pilot Project introduced a mechanism for
addressing both ongoing environmental obligations and past liabilities in a
comprehensive way for the first time.
20.  Based on the lessons leamed from the Bank-assisted Environmental Remediation
Pilot Project, the Govemment embarked on an Environment and Privatization Support
Program with three main components: (a) a framework for integrating environmental
liabilities into privatization; (b) regulatory reform for addressing off-site and hidden
liabilities; and (c) a framework for improving ongoing environmental perfornance. Bank
support for this initiative is being contemplated under the proposed Environment and
Privatization Support Loan.
21.  In 1998, a Regulation of the Council of Ministers introduced a requirement for
SOEs in the process of privatization to carry out an Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA), including an assessment of environmental damage caused before privatization. In



- 33 -                          Annex 1
Page7ofl5
accordance with the provisions of Bulgarian environmental legislation, the full EIA is
subject to public consultation and discussion before it is approved by the Expert Council
of the Ministry of Environment and Waters. The EIA will identify whether the SOE is
required to develop a Remediation Plan for Past Environmental Damages and/or a
Compliance Plan to bring the operations into compliance with relevant emission
standards.
22. Post Privatization Restructuring and Growth. Our enterprise reform agenda for the
future will focus on three areas. First, we will complete the first stage of the privatization
program and begin implementation of the program of privatization and private sector
participation in the energy, transport and infrastructure sectors. Second, we will ensure
the existence of conditions that would support and encourage restructuring of privatized
firms. In this context, the Parliament is considering a new Law on Public Offering of
Securities and the Council of Ministers has submitted amendments to the Commercial
Code that would improve the framework for enterprise liquidation and insolvency. We
will also start a review of corporate governance mechanisms, including the market for
corporate control.  Third, we will continue to review and improve the enabling
environment for the development of new private sector activities. We will focus on small
and medium scale enterprise development, export promotion, improving productivity
through skills and technology upgrading, increased foreign direct investment, and
achieving competitiveness.
Banking Reform
23. Banking Reform Strategy. The current program of reforns in the banking sector
has four major components: (a) establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory
environment; (b) development of an effective banking supervision capability;
(c) restructuring of the banking system through liquidation of insolvent banks and
privatization of public sector banks to strong and reputable strategic investors; and
(d) limiting public sector bank lending to SOEs while these banks are in the process of
privatization. These reforms would pave the way for the next generation of banking
reforms which would address issues relating to increased resource mobilization and
greater financial flows to support private sector activity.
24. Legal and Regulatory Framework. In line with the recommendations of the Fund
and the Bank, the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) strengthened the legal and regulatory
framework for commercial banking activity in order to foster prudent banking practices
and ensure the stability of banks under the CBA. A new Law on Banks was passed in
June 1997 mainly to facilitate the resolution of insolvent banks, improve bank licensing
procedures, strengthen accounting and external auditing provisions, introduce provisions
on bankers' fiduciary duty and conflicts of interest, and rationalize penalties for
regulatory non-compliance. A new Law of the Bulgarian National Bank has been passed
to clarify the role of the BNB in the context of the Currency Board Arrangement and to
increase its independence and accountability. In particular, the new law ensures the
independent authority of the Deputy Governor responsible for banking supervision.
25. In line with the new legal framework for banking, BNB overhauled the regulations
covering banking activities and issued regulations covering capital adequacy, risk
exposures and provisioning, and liquidity. To enhance the credibility and effectiveness



- 34 -                            Annex 1
Page 8 of 15
of the new banking laws and regulations, BNB restructured its banking supervision
function and introduced requirements for bank accounting, auditing, and reporting
consistent with international practices. Banks were required to adopt international
accounting standards, to be subject to independent audits by international auditors, and to
introduce internationally accepted disclosure standards.
26. The Banking Supervision Department (BSD) of the BNB has an ongoing review of
existing regulations and has worked on the preparation of new pru-dential regulations to
be issued by the end of 1999. Amendments to the regulations on licensing and large loan
limits have been prepared. A draft of a new regulation on consolidated supervision was
also recently completed.  Recent experience in enforcing existing regulations has
revealed weaknesses that would require amendments to strengthen the regulation on
classification and provisioning of credits.
27. Banking Supervision. To improve banking supervision, the BSD has reorganized,
expanded, and trained its staff with the assistance of one resident IMF advisor, two
resident USAID on-site advisors supplemented by frequent visits by several short term
examiners and legal advisors, and four resident EU PHARE advisors who focus on off-
site supervision. In addition, resident advisers to the Bank Consolidation Company
(BCC) help prepare the public sector banks (PSBs) for privatization. Various banking
experts have been assisting the State Savings Bank (SSB) in designing and implementing
a restructuring plan.
28. To implement the Strategic Plan for On-site Supervision, the BSD has trained on-
site examiners and developed an Examination Manual funded by USAID. The BSD has
formally adopted a CAMELS bank rating system which will be published after it has
been further tested and all banks have been rated. USAID program support includes the
development of a section of the Manual on "Enforcement Powers and Problem Bank
Supervision."
29. Following the arrival of EU PHARE advisors in October 1998, off-site supervision
and analysis have made significant progress. Considerable work has gone into the
development of new monthly and quarterly call reports from banks, which began
submitting reports on the new basis beginning March 1999. The current institutional
development agenda for off-site supervision will focus on ensuring the quality of
incoming information, improving the reporting system, and developing analytical skills.
30. Privatization of Public Sector Banks. Following the economic and financial crisis
of 1996-97, the banking system shrunk as 17 banks were closed and placed under court
supervised insolvency procedures. Out of the remaining seven6 PSBs in mid-1997, six
were to be privatized by Bank Consolidation Company, which held between 78 to 99
percent of the equity shares of these six banks. In July 1997, BCC sold 99.6 percent of
the United Bulgarian Bank to a group of investors that included the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and Oppenheimer & Co. In November 1998,
BCC sold 78.2 percent of Postbank to the American Life Insurance Company (ALICO)
and the Greek Euro-Finance Holdings which made a commitment to infuse US$20
6 We do not consider the Municipality Bank of Sofia to be a public sector bank due to the independence of
the Municipality of Sofia from the central Government. The Municipality Bank of Sofia, which is 67
percent owned by the Municipality of Sofia, is therefore beyond the control of the central Government, but
is under the supervision of the BNB.



Annex 1
Page 9 of 15
million in additional equity within a year after conclusion of the transaction. In
September 1999, BCC signed a share purchase agreement with Societe Generale for the
sale of 97.9 percent of Expressbank. The status of the privatization of the three
remaining banks under BCC's control is described below:
* BCC is handing directly the privatization of Hebrosbank. The final instructions to
bidders were issued in early August 1999 and four institutions and/or consortiums
submitted offers by the September 15, 1999 deadline. BCC is currently reviewing the
offers and has requested clarifications as to some of the terms and conditions of the
various offers. A share purchase agreement is expected to be signed during the first
quarter of 2000.
* BCC hired the consortium of Credit Anstalt Investment Bank, Credit Suisse First
Boston, and Arthur Andersen as the investment advisor to assist in the sale of
Bulbank. Bulbank is the largest bank in Bulgaria and holds approximately 27 percent
of the total banking assets. The invitation to bid was issued in June 1999 and a share
purchase agreement is expected to be signed by June 30, 2000.
* In early 1999, BCC hired Glendale Consulting to furnish foreign bankers to serve as
senior managers of Commercial Bank Biochim and restructure the bank over what
was anticipated to be a two year contract. At that time, Biochim was not expected to
be privatized until the year 2001. However, based on increased interest from both
foreign and domestic investors in the Expressbank and Hebrosbank offerings, BCC
approved accelerating the privatization timetable for Biochim in July 1999. In
conjunction with this revised strategy, the foreign management team was dismissed
because a two year restructuring program was inconsistent with the accelerated
privatization strategy.  The Information Memorandum  for Biochim  has been
approved and the marketing phase of Biochim's privatization has already begun.
BCC plans to issue final instructions to bidders in late 1999 or early 2000 and
following receipt of offers and negotiations, expects to have the stock purchase
agreement executed by June 30, 2000.
31. The State Savings Bank (SSB) has been made a full commercial bank based on the
Law on the Transformation of the State Savings Bank of April 1999, but is under close
supervision by the BNB until its full deposit guarantee is replaced by limited deposit
insurance in 2000. Following a complete supervisory audit, a Memorandum of
Understanding between SSB and the BNB was signed in August 1998 which specified
the reporting requirements and the restrictions on activities. In February 1999, the SSB
Board approved a strategic plan which envisions a continued focus on retail banking
services and an expansion into the provision of services to small and medium enterprises
and municipalities. In implementing its objectives, SSB will rely on technical assistance
from EU PHARE. We intend to privatize SSB in the year 2001.
32. In 1999, we established the State-owned Business Promotion Bank (BPB) in order
to take advantage of the credit line offered by the KfW of Germany which will be used
mainly for the promotion of small businesses. We will limit the operations of the
Business Promotion Bank to the activities funded by KfW. We also intend to reduce the
Government share (through the State Insurance Company and the State Fund for
Agriculture) in the Central Cooperative Bank (CCB) to 33 percent or below by June 30,
2000. Until such time that BNB has ensured that CCB has met the capital adequacy



- 36 -                          Annex 1
Page 10 of 15
requirements, the loan portfolio of the CCB will not increase beyond the June 30, 1999
level. Moreover, CCB's equity will not be increased through the infusion of additional
public resources. In addition to SSB, BPB, and CCB, there is one more bank that is not
owned by the private sector - the Municipality Bank of Sofia, which is considered an
independent entity. The Municipality Bank of Sofia is in compliance will all prudential
standards.
33. Liquidation of Insolvent Banks. There are currently 18 closed banks under court
supervised liquidation with the closure of Credit Bank in early 1999. The court
administered liquidation of these banks has not worked satisfactorily. As of mid-1999,
about one-third of the original number of branches remained open and a corresponding
percentage of staff was still employed by the closed banks. The recovery of assets was a
dismal 7.6 percent of the 1998 book value, and average monthly expenses exceeded
income by more than 25 percent, so that the creditors' resources were being diluted by
the delay.
34. As an immediate measure, we developed a plan for eleven of the closed banks
whereby all of the assets of each bank are to be tendered as a package with a minimum
acceptable price. If no bids are received, the Ministry of Finance (MoF), as the highest
ranking creditor and having claims that exceed the value of the assets for eleven of the
closed banks, would exercise its rights under the law to take over all of the assets directly
against its claim. The Government would then own the assets, the liquidation would be
completed, and the assignees in bankruptcy would be dismissed. In June 1999, the
Parliament passed amendments to the Law on Banks which enables us to implement this
plan.
35. We are reviewing options for a longer termn solution for resolving and/or liquidating
future insolvent banks. For this purpose, we have convened a BNB-led working group,
which includes representatives from the MoF and the Ministry of Justice and European
Legal Integration (MoJ). Among the options being considered is the one reconmmended
by the Bank where the resolution of the insolvent banks would be treated by new
legislation and would be administered by the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). This would
allow the consolidation of limited expertise in bank conservatorship in one institution.
The choice of the DIF has the advantage of the DIF having the financial incentive as a
major creditor to achieve the most successful resolution. We expect to forward to
Parliament by March 31, 2000 the relevant legislative provisions that would improve the
resolution of insolvent banks.
36. As of end-1998, the Deposit Insurance Fund was already operational. In January
1999, the DIF paid out BGL 10 billion to depositors of the insolvent Credit Bank and
seemed to have met the expectation of the public with respect to the existing deposit
insurance system. With the experience with Credit Bank, the DIF is recommending some
amendments to existing legislation and clarifications to current regulations to improve its
operations.
37. Next Steps. In the near term, BNB and BCC will focus their efforts on completing
the current reform program, notably the privatization of public sector banks and
improvement of supervision capacity. In the context of the proposed FESAL III and
using the results of the Bank review of the financial sector, we will be designing and
implementing the next generation of banking reforms. These reforms will include the



- 37 -                          Annex 1
Page 11 of 15
following objectives: (a) strengthening the banking sector; (b) developing capability on
the part of both the supervisor and the banks to identify and manage different types of
risk; and (c) establishing an environment that would enable banks to provide longer term
lending, support exporters, and finance small and medium enterprises. In addition to
banking reforms, we will develop and strengthen other components of the financial
system, notably contractual savings institutions and capital markets.
Financial Discipline
38. Financial Discipline Measures. We recognize that the imposition of financial
discipline on the SOEs while these are awaiting privatization is a critical factor to the
success of the CBA. Thus, following the economic crisis of 1996 and early 1997, we
strengthened the implementation of the program which, among other measures, isolates a
targeted number of the largest loss makers in the economy from the banking system. We
also closely monitored the lending of the public sector banks, especially their SOE
portfolio, to ensure that PSB lending to SOEs did not increase. Our most recent actions
to impose financial discipline in the economy include: (a) ensuring that the National
Electricity Company (NEK) and Bulgargaz strictly enforce their collection policies;
(b) establishing more effective collection capabilities on the part of Government offices
in dealing with enterprises with tax and social security arrears; (c) improving the
transparency of fiscal transfers by eliminating the Energy Resources Flnd which taxed
the profits of NEK and provided subsidies to energy related SOEs; and (d) reforming the
legal and procedural framework for liquidation and insolvency.
39. The Isolation Program. The Isolation Program covered 78 of the largest loss
making SOEs and consisted of two main components: (a) design and implementation of
measures to improve the financial performance of 30 SOEs (Group A) in the
infrastructure and energy sectors; and (b) design and implementation of financial
recovery plans for 48 SOEs (Group B)7 which had to be privatized or liquidated by the
end of the Isolation Program. These 78 SOEs accounted for about 50 percent of SOE
losses in 1995. The immediate objective of the Isolation Program was to impose a hard
budget constraint on these enterprises by temporarily isolating them from the banking
system. A working group within the MoF reviewed and approved the financial recovery
plans, which determined how much the enterprises could borrow. The financial recovery
plans included the drawing up of conciliation agreements with banks to work out existing
enterprise debts. The Isolation Program, originally designed to expire on December 31,
1998, ended on June 30, 1999.
40. With the exception of NEK, the performance of the Group A SOEs has been
disappointing. The Bulgarian State Railways (BDZ) had an operating loss of $50 million
out of revenues of $167 million in 1998. During the same period, the District Heating
Companies (DHCs) had a combined operating loss of $38 million on $196 million of
revenues, and the coal mines had a consolidated operating loss of $20 million on $150
million of sales. Wages have increased despite increasing losses in many of the
companies.
7The number of Group B SOEs increased from 41 to 48 due to the break-up of the large mining company,
Gorubso.



- 38 -                         Annex I
Page 12 of 15
41. However, the Isolation Program was successful in ensuring that all Group B SOEs
exited the program through privatization or bankruptcy/liquidation. Out of the 48 Group
B SOEs, 32 were privatized, 13 are being liquidated, and the rest are under court
supervised insolvency proceedings.
42. Enterprise-specific Measures for Group A SOEs. The Isolation Program was
successful in limiting access to credit by the SOEs in the program, but the restructuring
objective for the Group A SOEs has not been achieved. These SOEs continue to be loss
making and receive subsidies. To address the problem, we have developed for the Group
A SOEs both short term plans to contain the losses and longer term solutions involving
fundamental restructuring and privatization.
43. With respect to the 18 District Heating Companies, we have increased heating
tariffs by 30 percent effective September 1, 1998 and by another 12 percent effective
July 5, 1999. This has improved the financial position of the DHCs, reducing operating
losses before subsidy by almost 40 percent. In addition, we are evaluating long term
plans for the DHCs which include both efficiency improvement measures and
privatization. A Bank financed District Heating Project is being prepared to support the
energy efficiency measures and, in the context of the proposed FESAL 111, we will be
implementing a privatization program agreed with the Bank.
44.  With respect to BDZ, which is the largest loss maker among the Group A SOEs,
our short term program involves the sale or closure of 13 non-core manufacturing plants,
of which seven have already been sold and the remainder will be divested by
December 31, 1999. We have also prepared the long term plans of BDZ which includes
strategies for spinning off, privatizing, or closing certain operations. We will discuss
with the Bank the implementation of these strategies in the context of the proposed
FESAL III.
45. While NEK has been profitable, we are nonetheless pursuing a restructuring and
privatization program which is described in the section on Energy Restructuring below.
In addition, with respect to the energy related coal mining companies and the briquette
factory, we will close the non-viable operations and sell the viable ones by December 31,
2000.
46. Measures to Reduce Enterprise Arrears. Our focus in the Isolation Program was to
contain the flow of credit from the banking system to the largest loss-makers. The share
of the SOEs in the bank portfolio has gone down. The exposure of the banking system to
the Group B SOEs has decreased by six percent from December 31, 1997 to June 30,
1999, which was roughly the period covered by the Isolation Program.
47. However, since the beginning of 1999, there has been a marked increase in
enterprise arrears to NEK, Bulgargaz, the Tax Authorities, and the National Social
Security Institute (NSSI). In order to address this problem, we have instituted the
following measures.
* We have begun enforcing collection policies for NEK and Bulgargaz such that
deliveries to clients with more than 30 days receivables will be suspended unless paid
for in advance. We expect an improvement in the level of arrears of both NEK and
Bulgargaz starting June 1999.



- 39 -                       Annex I
Page 13 of 15
*  We intend to both improve the operations of Bulgargaz as well as liberalize the gas
market over time. By June 30, 2000, we will issue international tenders for the
establishment of private regional gas distribution companies. By 2006, we intend to
eliminate the monopoly of Bulgargaz on gas imports in line with the program for
developing the gas market in accordance with EU directives.
*  We will spin off regional distribution companies from NEK by December 31, 1999
and put them up for sale after formulating an optimal privatization strategy. We
expect that majority of these regional distribution companies will be privatized during
the year 2000, thereby improving collection incentives and efforts.
*  The Parliament is expected to pass in November 1999 the Tax Procedure Code which
provides better capability for the Government in securing and collecting public
receivables, including arrears from SOEs. We will set up by January 1, 2000 an
Agency for the Collection of State Claims in the Ministry of Finance. This agency
will have broad powers to deal with large arrears to the Government.
.  We have incorporated in the draft Social Security Code provisions that would
improve the ability of the NSSI to deal with enterprises in arrears, similar to the
capabilities of the Tax Office. The draft Social Security Code is currently in
Parliament and we expect passage by December 31, 1999.
48. Bankruptcy and Liquidation Reform. We are aware that the existing bankruptcy
regime does not provide an appropriate framework for the speedy liquidation of insolvent
SOEs. While the existing insolvency legislation in Part IV of the Commercial Code
promulgated in 1994 is, on the whole, carefully crafted on the basis of the recent
corresponding German statute, there is little local experience to date in its application,
whether in respect of SOEs or private enterprises. Bankruptcy proceedings are slow and
cumbersome and there are certain features of the law and practice which, if not corrected,
will continue to result in long procedural delays. We will pursue reform in two areas.
49. First, the Code of Civil Procedure will be overhauled and Part IV of the
Commercial Code will be amended to address some of the current problems, such as
incompetent trustees and lack of clarity of the operations and rights of creditors'
committees. The COM has submitted to the Parliament amendments to the Commercial
Code to improve the process of winding down or sale of enterprises through the court
system. In addition, we have set up an inter-ministerial committee to address more
complex issues with regards to insolvency, such as the court system structure.
50. Second, we will develop a program for upgrading skills of those involved in
bankruptcy and liquidation, including judges, trustees, lawyers, accountants, appraisers,
as well as managers of creditor institutions and of debtor enterprises. In the short run, we
have established a unit under the COM to set standards for the selection, removal, and
performance of the liquidators for SOEs.
51. Monitoring Financial Discipline and Fiscal Risk. By the middle of next year, the
divestiture of the SOEs in the first phase of the privatization program and the
privatization of most of the public sector banks should be completed. In the context of a
new structure of the economy and the emergence of new types of risk that may have a
potential fiscal impact, we have designed a monitoring system that would provide us with
early warning signals. We will monitor the developments in the financial structure and



- 40 -                           Annex 1
Page 14 of 15
operating performance of the enterprise sector and the resource flows from the financial
sector to the real sector. BNB will continue to monitor the activities of the banking
system, and we will ensure that, where necessary, other segments of the financial system
have the appropriate regulatory framework and supervision capability. We will be
working with the Bank in developing capabilities to manage risks in a private sector
dominated market economy.
Energy Sector Restructuring
52.  We have adopted a reform program for the energy sector to restore its financial
viability and ensure efficient allocation of resources. The plan is to phase out all
subsidies, initiate appropriate pricing mechanisms, and create a regulatory environment
that is conducive to private sector participation in the energy sector so that much of the
needed resources for investment can be attracted on commercial terms without incurring
excessive budgetary liabilities and risk. The core elements of the program include:
*  Progressive increase of tariffs;
*  Establishment of a sound legal and regulatory framework;
*  Liberalization of the market for electricity generation;
*  "Unbundling" of the National Electricity Company into separate entities for
generation, transmission, and distribution to foster competition and transparent
regulation; and
e  Privatization of major non-nuclear assets.
53. We have approved the Energy Sector Restructuring Action Plan, 1998-2001 and
the National Energy Strategy until 2010. The stated goal is the restructuring of sector
enterprises through a process of commercialization, financial rehabilitation, operation
under market mechanisms, and privatization. To enable effective private investment, we
have to create clear, transparent and stable legal, policy-making and regulatory
frameworks which will minimize the risk premium associated with private investment
capital so that reliable energy supply is maintained at the least cost.
54. In 1999, the NEK raised electricity prices twice: (a) by an average of 8.8 percent
effective January 1, 1999 (6.6 percent for industrial consumers and 13.9 percent for
residential consumers); and (b) by another average of 4.1 percent effective July 5, 1999
(1.1 percent for industrial consumers and 10.7 percent for residential consumers).
55. In July 1999, the Parliament passed the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency
which provides for: (a) private ownership of energy assets; (b) a clear separation of
policy-making, regulatory, and ownership functions; (c) an autonomous regulatory
authority to set regulated tariffs, issue licenses, and regulate market structure and rules to
enable conmpetition and transparent regulation; (d) a legal and non-discriminatory basis
for generators to enter into direct supply contracts with eligible customers beginning from
2002; and (e) an open regulatory process.
56. On the basis of the Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency, we have established the
State Commission for Energy Regulation and appointed its members. By March 31,
2000, the Council of Ministers will adopt all regulations envisaged in Law on Energy and
Energy Efficiency.



- 41 -                         Annex 1
Page 15 of 15
57. NEK has completed the accounting separation of its generation, transmission, and
distribution functions. We expect to establish the electricity distribution companies by
December 31, 1999, and the electricity generation companies and transmission company
by June 30, 2000. We expect to privatize most of the electricity distribution companies
in 2000.
58. District Heating Companies. Losses of DHCs have been a source of non-
transparent quasi-fiscal operations and cross-subsidization through extra-budgetary funds,
which situation has contributed to a culture of non-payment in the energy sector. The
long term solution is to rehabilitate DHCs by attracting private investors and operators,
which would require creating enabling legal, regulatory and policy conditions in the heat
sub-sector. In the meantime, there is an urgent need to improve the efficiency of heat
supply and to provide consumers with the means to measure and control their
consumption.
59. To ensure transparent operations, we closed the Energy Resource Fund, which was
a major source of subsidies, at end-1998 and replaced it with direct budget financing. We
will phase out subsidies by gradually increasing district heating prices. On October 1,
1998, we increased heat tariffs by 30 percent which enabled the DHCs to cover fuel
prices, or about 70 percent of direct costs of most DHCs. We implemented an additional
12 percent increase on July 5, 1999, which now allowed most DHCs to cover all direct
costs prior to the recent (October 1, 1999) 15.4 percent hike in gas prices. The impact of
this price increase on the financial condition has yet to be assessed and it may be
necessary to consider a second increase in district heating tariffs before the end of the
heating season or to increase subsidies to the companies.
60. Mines. The State Agency for Energy and Energy Resources is in the process of
finalizing its assessment of economically viable and nonviable mines. The mine
restructuring program is being closely coordinated with the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy, and the State Agency for Energy and Energy Resources expects privatization of
viable mining companies and closure of nonviable ones to be largely completed by
December 31, 2000.



POLICY AND ACTION MATRIX
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORMS
Privatization! or Liquidation      *  Sale2 or initiation of liquidation or insolvency  *  By March 31, 2000, completion of the PATA
of State Owned Enterprises            proceedings of SOEs equivalent to at least 80       program.
percent of the long term assets of SOEs in the
Privatization Advisors and Transaction Agents
(PATA) Program.
*  Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency  *  By March 31, 2000, completion of the Pool
proceedings of SOEs equivalent to at least 30      Privatization Program (covering all eight pools).
percent of the long term assets of SOEs in the
Pool Privatization Program.
*  Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency  *  By March 31, 2000, completion of the sale or
proceedings of SOEs equivalent to at least 85      initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings
percent of the long term assets of SOEs under the  of all SOEs under the responsibility of the PA.
responsibility of the PA3 as of June 30, 1999.  *  By March 31, 2000, completion of the sale or
initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings
of all SOEs whose privatization mandate was         4
transferred by the PA to the line ministries in July
1999.
*  Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency  *  By March 31, 2000, completion of the sale or
proceedings of small SOEs equivalent to at least   initiation of liquidation or insolvency proceedings
80 percent of the long term assets of small SOEs   of all small SOEs under the responsibility of the
under the responsibility of the line ministries as  line ministries.
of June 30, 1999.4
' An SOE is considered privatized when at least 67 percent of its equity is transferred to private owners.
2 An SOE is considered sold when the privatization contract is signed and a down payment is paid.
3 The SOEs under the responsibility of the PA are: (a) the SOEs privatized by the PA or placed under bankruptcy or liquidation upon recommendation of the PA;  GQ
and (b) the SOEs which the PA has the mandate to privatize as of June 30, 1999 excluding the SOEs whose privatization mandate has been transferred by the PA to  ( >
the line mninistries in July 1999. The SOEs under the PATA and Pool programs are not included in the SOEs under the responsibility of the PA.  ~3
4In computing the percentage performance, the base will exclude: (a) the large SOEs transferred in July 1999 by the PA to the Iine nministries; and (b) the small   Fh x
SOEs which have legal and restitution issues that prevent the finalization of the privatization process.                                     ON t\



POLICY AND ACTION MATRIX
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORMS
.,.   ..      .                        ...     :    .          .    .       ..        ,         ,      .,  ,,,   ,    .......    . .......
Strategic Objectives                Aetions Completed UndeDr FESAL II                   Actiong for the Next Eighteen Months
*  Cessation of operations of SOEs under            *  Cessation of operations of all SOEs under
liquidation as of June 30, 1999 with the exception  liquidation within six months of the initiation of
of two SOEs.5                                      the liquidation proceedings.
*  Completion of sale to private owners of assets of  *  By December 31, 2000, completion of sale to
at least 140 out of the 280 SOEs under              private sector of assets of SOEs under liquidation
liquidation6 as of June 30, 1999.                   as of June 30, 2000.
*  Sale of residual share packages in at least 50   *  By December 31, 2000, sale of the residual shares
percent of enterprises privatized as of June 30,    of the State in all enterprises privatized as of June
1999.7                                              30, 2000.
*  Starting January 2000, begin the process of
privatization of SOEs, or components of large
SOEs, in the energy, transport and infrastructure
sectors.
Imposition of Financial            *  Sale or initiation of liquidation or insolvency   *  By June 30, 2000, completion of sale of all Group
Discipline in the Enterprise           proceedings of all Group B SOEs8 under the          B SOEs under liquidation.                           w
Sector                                 Isolation Program9.
*  Increase in tariffs of District Heating Companies   *  Implementation of programs for improving
(DHCs).                                             efficiency, collection, restructuring and
*  Submission of long term plans for the DHCs,         privatization of DHCs agreed with the Bank.
acceptable to the Bank.
*  Sale or closure of eight plants of Bulgarian State   *  By December 31, 1999, sale or closure of
Railways (BDZ).                                     additional five plants of BDZ.
5These two SOEs will cease operations upon completion of their current production comnitments, but not later than March 31, 2000.
6 Defined as sale of at least 70 percent of assets of an enterprise.
7                                                                                                                                             -
Residual shares are defined as State holdings net of those shares held due to restitution or legal proceedings or reserved for employees. Shares reserved for  p
employees should be disposed of by June 30, 2000.                                                                                            (D
This includes Arsenal, where 65 percent of the equity shares were sold to the private sector. Because Arsenal is a defense related enterprise, the State will continue    ,
to hold a 35 percent share.                                                                                                                   0 >
9 Group A and Group B SOEs refer to the SOEs under the Isolation Program which ended June 30, 1999.                                             x



POLICY AND ACTION MATRIX
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORMS
Strategi Objective;                Acion  Copee Ilude FSAL II    _cin frteexEgtenM t
*  Submission of a restructuring plan for BDZ  *  Implementation of restructuring plan for BDZ.
acceptable to the Bank.
*  Submission of privatization or liquidation plans,   *  By December 31, 2000, privatization of viable
acceptable to the Bank, for seven collieries from  coal mining SOEs and cessation of operations of
the coal mining companies and the briquette    nonviable mines.
factory under Group A of the Isolation Program.
*  No increase in arrears to Bulgargaz from the level *  Continued implementation of the collection
as of June 30, 1999.                           policies of Bulgargaz.
*  Submission of a restructuring plan for Bulgargaz   *  Implementation of Bulgargaz restructuring plan.
acceptable to the Bank.                     *  By March 31, 2000, issuance of international
tenders for private regional gas distribution
companies.
*  No increase in the arrears to the National  *  Continued implementation of the collection        4
Electricity Company (NEK) from the level as of  policies of NEK.
June 30, 1999.
*  Second reading by Parliament of a Tax Procedure  *  Implementation of the Tax Procedure Code.
Code acceptable to the Bank which provides for   *  By January 1, 2000, establishment of an Agency
Improvements In the ability to deal with       for Collection of State Claims to deal with the
enterprises in arrears.                        securing and collection of arrears to the State.
*  Submission to Parliament of a Social Security  *  Implementation of the Social Security Code.
Code acceptable to the Bank which provides for
improvements in the ability of the National Social
Security Institute (NSSI) to deal with enterprises
in arrears.
*  Creation by the Council of Ministers (COM) of a  *  Enforcement of selection and performance
unit under the COM which will set standards,   standards for liquidators.                       d
train, select, remove, and generally supervise  *  Submission of quarterly reports on SOEs under  o
liquidators of SOEs.                           liquidation.
X(D



POLICY AND ACTION MATRIX
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORMS
Strategic Objectives             Actions Completed UInder FESAL H               Actiens far the Next Eighteen Months
*  Submission to the Parliament of amendments,    *  Submission of quarterly reports on SOEs under
acceptable to the Bank, to the Commercial Code  insolvency proceedings.
that would result in faster, more efficient, and
more transparent wind up or sale of SOEs
through the court system.
*  Setting up of an inter-ministerial commission to   *  By June 30, 2000, submission to Parliament of
analyze and recommend amendments to the        amendments to the insolvency legislation to
current insolvency legislation to reforn the court  reform court procedures and structure.
insolvency procedures and structure.
*  Establishment of a system, acceptable to the  *  Submission to the Bank of quarterly reports on
Bank, for monitoring financial discipline and  financial discipline.
fiscal risk in the enterprise sector.
Reforming the Banking System   *  Completion of the privatization transaction,
including full payment, in the sale of Postbank.
*  Signing of the share purchase agreement between  *  By December 31, 1999, completion of the
BCC and Societe General in the sale of Express-  privatization transaction of Expressbank.
bank, including a 10 percent downpayment.
*  Review of bid submissions from interested   *  By March 31, 2000, completion of the
private buyers in the sale of Hebrosbank.      privatization transaction of one more public
sector bank.
l  Issuance of Invitation to Bid in the sale of  a  By June 30, 2000, completion of the privatization
Bulbank.                                       transactions of two more public sector banks.
*  Approval of Information Memorandum and start
of the marketing process in the sale of Biochim.
I  Implementation of MOU between the State     *  Implementation of SSB privatization strategy
Savings Bank (SSB) and BNB.                    starting January 2001.
*  Submission of medium ten-, strategy for SSB,
__       ___ ___ __acceptable to the Bank.                    _______                              _    _ |__
o X



POLICY AND ACTION MATRIX
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORMS
*  Enforcement of all prudential regulations.  *  By March 31, 2000, adoption of a regulation
establishing consolidated supervision.
*  Passage of amendments to Banking Law dealing   *  By March 31, 2000, submission of legislative
with existing insolvent banks.                 provisions to Parliament to enable the Deposit
Insurance Fund to administer newly closed banks.
*  Start of the auction process which will enable the  *  By December 31, 1999, complete the takeover of
Ministry of Finance to take over the assets of  the assets of eleven closed banks by the Ministry
eleven closed banks.                           of Finance.
*  Monitoring by BNB of the lending portfolio of    *  Beginning December 31, 1999, submission by
the remaining public sector banks, including the  BNB to the Bank of quarterly reports on the
Central Cooperative Bank (CCB), the Business    lending portfolio of the remaining public sector
Promotion Bank, and the Municipality Bank of    banks, including the Central Cooperative Bank,
Sofia'0, and submission by BNB to the Bank of  Municipality Bank of Sofia and the Business
reports as of June 30 and September 30, 1999.  Promotion Bank.                                  a'
*  By June 30, 2000, reduction of the direct and
indirect share of the Government in the equity of
No increase in the lending portfolio of CCB from  Central Cooperative Bank to 33 percent or less.
the level of June 30, 1999, until CCB has met the  *  No increase in the lending portfolio of CCB from
capital adequacy requirements under the         the level of June 30, 1999, until CCB has met the
prudential regulations issued by BNB.           capital adequacy requirements under the
*  No increase in the equity of CCB through the    prudential regulations issued by BNB.
infusion of public resources.               *  No increase in the equity of CCB through the
infusion of public resources.
Restructuring the Energy        *  Passage of Law on Energy and Energy Efficiency.  *  By March 31, 2000, adoption by the Council of
Sector                                                                              Ministers of all regulations envisaged in the Law
on Energy and Energy Efficiency.
(D 
(0
u. D
1 The Municipality Bank of Sofia is not considered a public sector bank due to the independence of the Sofia Municipality from the central Government.  o >
Nonetheless, the Municipality bank of Sofia is not a private sector bank and its loan portfolio is being closely monitored by the BNB.  Fhhx



POLICY AND ACTION MATRIX
FINANCIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORMS
Strategic Objectives             Actions Completed Under FESAL II                Actioig for the Next Eighteen Months
*  Establishment of a State Commission for Energy   *  Starting 2000, implementation of privatization of
Regulation and appointment of commissioners.    different components of the energy sector
according to a plan agreed with the Bank.
*  Increase in electricity prices.             *  By December 31, 1999, establishment of
*  Completion of accounting separation of          electricity distribution companies.
generation, transmission, and distribution  *  By June 30, 2000, establishment of generation
functions of NEK.                               and transmission companies.
*  Continued implementation of three year action
plan for the restructuring of the energy sector.
_,
ol\k



- 48                                      Annex 3
Bulgaria -- Selected Key Economic Indicators - 1996-1999      Page 1 of 1
Actual          Estimate   Projected
Indicator                      1996       1997        1998        1999
G-ross Domestic Product
GDP (US$ million)                            9831       10146      12255       12286
Real GDP growfh (%)                          -10.1       -7.0         3.5         1.5
Investment (% of GDP)                         8.4        11.4        14.7        15.5
Public                                      1.4         1.9        2.7         3.4
Private                                     7.0         9.5       12.0        12.1
Consumption (% of GDP)                       88.5        83.1        86.3        89.5
Public Sector Balances 1/
Expenditures (% of GDP)                      45.3        34.2       35.8        39.5
Revenues (% of GDP)                          32.6        31.7       36.8        38.0
Deficit (-) (% of GDP)                      -12.7        -2.5         1.0        -1.5
External Financing (% of GDP)                -2.4        -1.3       -1.0        -0.7
Balance of Payments
Financing Requiremenits (US$ million)           -27       1789        1793        1681
o/w Current Account Deficit 2/              -522        -818         -86         283
o/w Debt Service                            1248         932        1296        1203
o/w Increase in Foreign Exchange Reserves    -753       1675         583         195
Financing Sources (US$ million)                 -27       1789        1793        1681
o/w Unrequited Current Official Transfers    103         129          71          50
o/w Donor Financing 3/                       270         639         870         711
o/w FDI and Other Private Flows                 8        640         221         545
o/w Arrears Clearance and Debt Relief        105         103         -18          50
o/w Others, inc. Errors & Omissions          -513        278         650         325
Financing Gap (US$ million)                                                          0
External debt
Total External Debt (in % of GDP)           102.3        97.2        80.8       79.0
Debt Service (in % of total exports)        19.4        14.4        22.1        23.4
1/ General Government Budget, incl. SFRD.
2/ Excluding interest payments and official transfers.
3/ Including Use of Fund credit, other budgetary/balance support.
Source: Official data, IMF staff and Bank staff preliminary estimates.



- 49                                           Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Bulgaria - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual               Estimate Projected
Indicator            1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Total debt outstanding and     9805   10306   10058    9859    9907    9709
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a       211    -334    -384       267     232      302
Total debt service (TDS)        686    1144    1248       932    1296    1203
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                     185.8   148.8   156.3   152.0   169.0   196.7
TDO/GDP                      100.2    78.6   102.3    97.2    80.8    79.0
TDS/XGS                       13.0    16.5    19.4    14.4    22.1    23.4
Concessional/TDO               1.6     1.8      1.8      1.6     1.6      1.8
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS              2.3     2.7      3.6      5.4     5.4      5.9
Preferred creditor DS/public  23.3    34.2    29.9    43.2    47.0    30.1
DS (%)c
IBRD DS/XGS                    0.3     0.4      0.7      0.7     1.0      1.1
IBRD TDO (US$m)d              415      444     453      501      697    859
Of which present value of
guarantees (USSm)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)     ..      ..       ..
IDA TDO (US$m)d                 0        0       0        0        0       0
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and
tern credit.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, th
and the Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:                  8 months
Prepared by:                            Govermnent of Bulgaria and Bulgarian
National Bank, with the assistance of IBRD
Staff
Preparation Mission                     October 19, 1998
Follow-up Mission:                      March 8, 1999
Appraisal Mission:                      June 28, 1999
Technical Discussions:                  October 14, 1999
Negotiations:                           October 22, 1999
Planned date of Effectiveness:          December 15, 1999
Expected program completion             December 31, 2000
Team Leader               Albert F. Martinez
Team                      Charles Woodruff, Lada Stoyanova, Lena Roussenova,
Nevena Alexieva, Galia Kondova



Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected                Last PSR
Original Amount in US$ Millions              and actual              Supervision
Fiscal                                                                                                                  disbursements a/            Rating b/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                         Purpose
IBRD      IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 9
Active Projects
BG-PE-8316      1993   BULGARIA                      ENERGY                                  93.00       0.00      0.00     34.00         34.00         0.00                S
BG-PE-8319      1994   BULGARIA                      WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING           98.00       0.00     41.00     40.00         59.10        24.30      S          S
BG-PE-8318      1996   BULGARIA                      HEALTH SECTOR RESTRUCTURING             26.00       0.00      0.00     18.20         18.20         0.00      S          S
BG-PE-8315      1996   BDZ                           RAILWAY REHABILITATION                  95.00       0.00      0.00     26.60         26.62         0.00      S          S
BG-PE-8323      1997   BULGARIA                      SOCIAL INSURANCE                        24.30       0.00      0.00      14.40         9.50         0.00      S          HS
ADMINISTRATION
BG-PE-33965     1998   BULGARIA                      ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION PILOT         16.00       0.00      0.00      16.00         8.50         0.00      S          S
BG-PE-57925    1999   BULGARIA                       AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT          75.76      0.00       0.00      0.00          0.00         0.00      S          S
LOAN I
BG-PE-55156    1999   BULGARIA                       REGIONAL INITIATIVE FUND                 5.00       0.00      0.00       3.90          1.70        0.00      HS         S    Ul
BG-PE-51151    1999   BULGARIA                       SOCIAL PROTECTION ADJUSTMENT            80.00       0.00      0.00     38.90          36.6         0.00      5          S
Total                                                                                       513.06       0.00     41.00    192.00        194.22        24.30
Active Projects      Closed  Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                274.4              601.10              875.57
of which has been repaid:                 11.60              61.96               73.56
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                513.10             697.00            1,210.10
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              192.00               0.30              192.30
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U
unsatisfactory, HI = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursemernt data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.                                                                                                   It
Data as of September 30, 1999                                                                                                                                               
og
(D~r
OG  
Generated by the Operations Informnation System (0IS)



Bulgaria
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31 -Aug-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Euromerchant FND        0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Interlease Inc.         3.50     .30    0.00    0.00    2.00      .30    0.00    0.00
1997                  Sofia Hilton            10.80    0.00    2.00    9.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Devnya Cement          31.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  BAC Bank                0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  Isiklar Holding         13.90    1.50    0.00    0.00   13.90     .94    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   59.25    6.80    7.00    9.50   15.90    5.24    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999                  BPBANK                  10.00   12.40    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          10.00   12.40    0.00    0.00
(D 
(D
o x
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 11/3/99



Annex 7
-~ 53 -Page 1 of 2
Bulgaria at a glance                                                                9/16/99
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY arnd SOCIAL                                         Central  middle-
Bulgaria     Asia  Income       Development diamond*
199S
Population, mid-year (miillons)                       8.2      473       908                   Life expectancy
GNP per capta (Atlas method, US$)                   1230      2,190     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     10.1     1039      1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Populafion (%)                                       -0.6       0.1       1.1     GNP                               Gross
Labor force (%l)                                     -0.6       0.6      1'5      per                            Gprimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-9)                              capta                         enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)  36
Urban population (% of total population)              69        68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      71        69        68
Infant mortabty (per 1,000 live births)               18        23        38
Child malnutrRtion (% of children under 5)             ,.        ,,        ,,                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populatin)                  ..                 75
Illiteacy (%/c ofpopulation age 15+)                   2         4        14               B
Gross primary enrollment (% of'school-age population)  99      100       103               ulgara
Male                                               100       101       105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              98        99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997     1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ bifions)                                   28.4      10.1      12.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 ..    32.9       11.4      14.7                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GQP             ..    40.8       61.9     45.2
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                      ..    31.1       18.9      13.7
Gross national savings/GDP                    ..    30.3       15t7      12.9
Current account balance/GDP                    .     -2.5       4,2      -2.1     Domestic                      Ivte
Interest payments/GOP                         ..      1.4       4.3       S.7     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 .    29.1       97.2      80,8
Total debt service/exports                    ..    17.2       14.4      22.1
Present value of debtGDP                       .       ..      92.2
Present value of debt/exports                 1. ..    143.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997      1998   199-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.6    -4.0    -7.0         3.5       4.6               Bulgaria
GNP per capita                      3.5    -3.0      -5.9       4.8       5.6                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       6.2    -12.2      3,1     -15.8       3. 
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997     1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        60
Agriculture                                   ..    11.8       23.8      18.7    40_
Industry                                      ..    61.5       25.3      25.5    20
Manufacturing                                ..      ..      16.8      17.0      0
Services                                      ..    26.7       50.9      55.7 
-20                  59
Private consumption                           ..    61.5       70.3      71.2      1
General government consumption                ..      7.4      12.8      15.1                      GD0     -     GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    42.6       56.4      46.3    __0
197747  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%/6)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 -2.5    -2.1       32.9       1.4    30
Industry                                     6.4    -6.2      -11.3       4.3.20
Manufacturing                                ,.      ..    -14.9        6.5    1o
Services                                     3.8    -2.0      -19.3       4.0
Private consumption                          3.3    -4.9      -22.8      -4.7                \wJa93        96      'f
General government consumption               8.6    -4.3       -1.4       4.0   _10 -
Gross domestic investment                    3.2    -7.7       33.1      44.3   -20 -
Imports of goods and services                6.1    -16.3      -2.7      -2.8               - Exports          l gImports
Gross national product                       3.7    -3.8       -6.6       4.4   1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 54 -                                                           Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Bulgaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                    20
(% change)
Consumer prices                               ..       ..   1,082.3      22.3      6
Implict GDP deflator                          ..      0.1     949.1      22.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                ..    60.2      32.7      34.6              93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                         ..      ..        1.7      4.1                    GCP deflator    0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..       2.1       2.8
TRADE
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  10,287     4,940    4,299      6000
Other metal                                  ..   1,801         ..                  T
Other agriculture                                  1,479                        40  .                  l
Manufactures                                 .
Total imports (cif)                                11,298     4,932    5,156                011
Food                                         ..     409        141      195
Fuel and energy                              ..   1,565      1,594    1,193
Capital goods                                ..   5,128       862    1,131
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      95        98        86           92   93   94   95   96   97   98
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       65        87       85                O5Exports     nImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    148        112       100    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..  11,444      6,277    5,555       6
Imports of goods and services                 ..  11,959      5,730    5,877       31
Resource balance                              ..   -515         547      -322
Net income                                    ..   -314        -357      -283
Net current transfers                         ..    108         237       230     -3
Current account balance                        ..   -721        427      -376       A
Financing items (net)                         ..    389         820      707    -12
Changes in net reserves                        ..    332    -1,247       -332         92   93   94   95   96   97   96
Memo:                                                                           l
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    2,474    3,057
Conversion rate (DEC, localtUS$)                      1.3      1,696    1,760
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          38    8,266      9,859    9,907                                                |
IBRD                                         0        0       501      697                     G: 460 A: 697
IDA                                          0        0         0        0                                   C 1,116
Total debt service                             2    1,989       932     1,296
IBRD                                         0        0        47       57
IDA                                          0 0                0        0
D: i: 565
Composition of net resource flows                                                                          -
Official grants                              0        0       129       59                                      E.26
Official creditors                           0      651       -75       73                *,E206
Private creditors                            1      779       -59        32   |          5C863
Foreign direct investment                    ..       0       507      401    i        5663
Portfolio equity                                      0       133      -219
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0       140       101     A-IBRD                        E-Bilatera
Disbursements                                0        0       101       197     B-IDA     D -Other multiateral    F-Private
Principal repayments                         0        0        16       20      C-IMF                         G-Short-termn
Net flows                                    0        0        85       177
Interest payments                            0        0        31       37
Net transfers                                0        0        54      140
Development Economics                                                                                                9/16/99



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26532E
RO0M AN  I A..,
M~ Zoj....    IKJot Cobb,
FED.                                                                                                                                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  yooo
0    F                                                 0                t'.~~~~~~~~~~~~M pOI                                                            ozr                                     VA  RNA              SoIolo    K....Tyo
YUGOSLAVIA                               N                                                                      ok        KooooDSkoob-,o,                                                                                                    Reko
(SERBIA/MONT.)                                                              0 VBMOdr                                                                                                                                            rood DO              eooo''
430  ., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    4                                                                                                                                                                           .  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.
-    EooLo,z ~~~~.  K,cn,,LoorzL                            ..Kcd                                                           Sli.a
S   'IA       ZIoI,Ioo0 ~~~-                                             K I..                          SIoz                                                      .,.   . .1,    C
~~Rodo  0                                                   ,,            Thiovo~~~~~~~S- 
B   Doob    a000                                                                                                              Noaj,ooolRvzO                                              Eo
D.i    -k.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SooZ~ogo,0 .2U~ .
Ky~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ioooo0C C,                                                                                                              ..   A  ta
42.       oKly .Boryo  h) -O0t0O                                                                                                                                      or,oD-                                             -
.~~  ~~Elogooog,od   ~~~~~~~~,,   ~~~,                                 .P,0IKB09C0CP'~~~~~~Ly~ ...0' v.N  1
oBr~~31    0000000    A,~~~~ooo~~,o~~  000                                                                              roovo    *        RozOvo~~~
,  0  .  .      .              ooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~doI,a,o..0 h                                                       '*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~~~.
,~                             0Moovo                     0TURKEY000                                                                                                      5
Door,n,zhto  - .                                                                                         OoIIeograB-co    Chl-~Ih
D.b,                                                                                                                                        27,oh,90d  TURKEY)    o Jio
MA E O I                        T Y               oRro                                                                                   odoo                                                                                                   B         L        A        I
MACEDONIA                                                                                               P.dk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                           BULGo ATOALRAITA
P L'i     ~                                    L 
000         O  ANASELECOTS DCTE    N     O N
2 io or                                                                                                                             .1POBLAST CAPITNALIS
K00,.              ,                                                                                       .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~~~~~~~~~. K----                                                          INATERNATIONPIALBUDRE
PEE REP~ ~ ~~~~~~~GRE     
YUGOSLAVIA\0,       ~      . 
ISEREIA/MONT.I/                                                                                                                          A2geaff              eV/B                                             00ca
0       oE f~                                                                                                                Ae       e         .i  Se ao'.                                           >                                                KIlOMETERS
000~~~~~                                                 .                         .                                           0000                      ThU ooop ooz prodvoed by be Mop Gecozo Too oP The World BooB.~~~~~~~~Ti,-p  r.d d b  &Mp   -g,U,,  lT", Ilc 8
LEANIA>  ., .  ,~~~~               T.UoR,oE Y                                                                                                                                                                                         Lh0 -be op  tl 0,T' 0  o po- oP Tba W,Ol 9-kO G-upy
-oy jdgoo-ooooohz/oyOI c,ofo-, f-,fclry. r,,'oAooor
NOVEMBETEI -6



