Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16148
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2992-IND)
November 20, 1996
-- Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1986
US$1.00 = Rp 1,660
Rp 1 million = US$602
Annual Average
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
1,686  1,770  1,843  1,950  2,020  2,080  2,160  2,237
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AAET         -    Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
BAPPENAS   -    National Development Planning Agency
DGE          -    Directorate General of Estates
DISBUN       -    Provincial Offices of Estate Crops (Dinas Perkebunan)
FMC          -    Financial Management Course
GOI          -    Government of Indonesia
HRD/HRM    -    Human Resource Development/Human Resource Management
ICR          -    Implementation Completion Report
LPP          -    Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan (Estates Training Institute)
MENPAN       -    Ministry of State for Administrative Reform, responsible for changes in
public sector institution structure.
MIS          -    Management Information System
MOA          -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOF          -    Ministry of Finance
ORTALA       -    Division of Organization, DGE
PIU          -    Project Implementation Unit
PMUs         -    Project Management Units of GOI Scheme to assist Smallholders
PTP                Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan (State-owned Limited Liability Estate
Company)
SAR          -    Staff Appraisal Report
TCHRDP       -    Tree Crops Human Resource Development Project
TNA          -    Training Needs Assessment



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ............ i
Evaluation Summary ............ ii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives.                                        1
B. Achievement of Objectives                         .2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                      6
D. Project Sustainabiity.                                                    7
E. Bank Perfomnance.                                                         7
F. Borrower Performance.                                                     7
G. Assessment of Outcome.                                                    8
H. Future Operations.                                                        9
I. Key Lessons Leared.                                                       9
Part II:. Statistical Tables
Table 1   Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2   Related Bank Loans .13
Table 3   Project Timetable .15
Table 4   Loan Disbursements .15
Table 5A     Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 5B     Summary Status of Local Training Program .18
Table 5C     Summary Status of Overseas Fellowship Programs .20
Table 5D     Summary Status of Technical Assistance .21
Table 6    Studies included in Project .22
Table 7A  Project Costs .23
Table 7B  Project Financing .23
Table 8   Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 9    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .25
Table 10  Bank Resources: Missions .25
Annex I          A List of Key Documents Produced under the Project .27
Annex 2          Possible HRD/HRM Capacity Monitoring Indicators .29
Appendix A.  Mission's Aide-Memoire .31
Appendix  B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR including Operational Plan .   39
Map No.          IBRD 28152
Acting Vice President:     Nicholas C. Hope, EAP
Director:                  Marianne Haug, EA3
Division Chief:             Samuel Lieberman, EA3PH
Staff:                      Mieko Masuda, EA3PH/Charles Maguire, AGRAF
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othermise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.  |






-1i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2992-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tree Crops Human Resource
Development Project (TCHRDP) in Indonesia, for which Loan 2992-IND in the amount of
US$18.4 million equivalent was approved on September 15, 1988 and made effective on January 4,
1989.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, a year later than the original closing date of
December 31, 1994. Final disbursement took place on May 30, 1996, at which time a balance of
US$1,399,811.78 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mieko Masuda of the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department III of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and Charles Maguire of the
Agriculture and Forestry Systems Division of the Agriculture and Natural Resources Department,
and reviewed by Samuel Lieberman, Chief, Population and Human Resources Operations Division,
and Nadereh Chamlou and Ben Fisher, Acting Operations Advisors, Country Department III.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in February 1996.
The ICR is based on materials in the project files and on information provided by the implementing
agency. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project's execution, providing views which are noted in the mission's Aide-Memoire and
commenting on the draft ICR.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (TCHRDP)
(Loan 2992-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
i.    The project was designed to enhance the capability of the Directorate General of Estates in
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to develop and manage its human resources, thereby improving
smallholder productivity in the tree crops subsector. By the end of project implementation,
training capacity was to have been strengthened and the human resource development function
institutionalized in the Directorate General of Estates.
ii.    The project had three components:
(a) Strengthening the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) through (i) establishing human
resource development (HRD) capacity within DGE; (ii) providing improved
managerial and technical support for field staff and smallholders; (iii) providing
overseas fellowships, and management and technical training for DGE staff; and (iv)
carrying out a study to improve the existing management information system in the
DGE;
(b) Improvement of Training Delivery Capacity in the Subsector by (i) training of trainers
for the Agency for Agricultural Education and Training (AAET) to address the
training needs of tree crop subsector staff; (ii) assisting the Estates Training Institute
(LPP) in designing and carrying out a financial management training course; and (iii)
institutional strengthening of the LPP; and
(c) Improvement of Subsectoral Productivity: Local Training Programs, including
management and technical training for field staff, extension worker training, training
of trainers for the farmer leader training program, farmer leader training, financial
management training courses for financial and non-financial staff and training for
newly established area development officers.
Project Implementation and Outcome
iii.   The project is judged to be satisfactory and has achieved its objective of enhancing DGE
capacity to develop and manage human resources. It strengthened subsector training capability



- Hi -
and provided local training programs for sub-sector technical field staff, farmer leaders and newly
created area development officers. A program of on-the-job-training, academic degree training,
and practical HRD field work created a core group of capable HRD staff who, by project
completion, were in charge of all HRD operations. It proved difficult to measure the actual impact
of the project on smallholder productivity due to changes in the focus of the training program
during project implementation and exogenous factors influencing the intensity of rubber tapping.
Nevertheless, the confirmed transfer and use of improved techniques by project smallholders are
very likely to have increased productivity and thereby helped to reduce poverty (paras. 6, 12, 13,
14 and 15).
iv.    The project did not create a human resource development unit within the DGE, a move
which was considered, at appraisal, to be essential for sustainablility of the HRD initiative within
the DGE. However, a compromise solution was found by enlarging the personnel function of DGE
to encompass HRD, although the success of this approach will depend heavily on the interest,
qualifications and experience of the head of the Personnel Division (paras. 6 and 17).
Comprehensive management information systems (MIS) were not yet fully developed in the
Indonesian public sector at the time of project design, and managers were not generally familiar
with the use of networked data bases and information sharing. The DGE was no exception and
under the project it proved difficult to create a fully operational MIS despite the provision of
technical assistance and hardware and training of staff to operate the system. By project closing,
the MOA had developed and introduced its ministry-wide MIS which made the DGE MIS largely
redundant, and only the personnel and statistics data bases developed under the project were being
used in the DGE to supplement the MOA system (para. 11).
v.    The project attracted the attention of MENPAN I which viewed it as a potential model of
HRD strengthening for the entire public sector. A newly formed Board in the MOA adopted the
TCHRDP model of HRD, a further indication of positive project impact. Sustainability of project-
generated capacity and HRD activities is highly likely for the post-project period, as the DGE has
found funds to continue the activities of the core HRD group and assigned them responsibility for
monitoring and rationalizing all training proposed in externally funded projects for the DGE. The
group has also been charged with the task of continuing the program of sensitizing managers at
headquarters and in the provinces to the importance and application of HRD in the workplace
(paras. 20 and 23).
vi.   Both Bank and Borrower performance was satisfactory. The Bank provided continuity of
staff throughout the implementation period, and the Borrower ensured that a core team of full-time
staff participated in all aspects of project implementation (paras. 21 and 22).
vii.   Project cost at completion was estimated at US$22.6 million, about 85 percent of the
appraisal estimate (US$26.6 million). The cost underrun was largely due to the declining value of
the Rupiah currency against the US dollar--the Rupiah's value declined by about 26 percent during
implementation from Rp 1,660 to US$1 at appraisal to Rp 2,237 at completion. The Loan
financing of the project was 75 percent of the total project cost compared with the appraisal
estimate of 70 percent. The closing date of the Loan was extended by one year to allow additional
1 The ministry responsible for changes in the structure of public sector institutions.



- iv-
time for the Government to further develop appreciation of HRD concepts, particularly at the
provincial level (para. 7).
Future Operations
viii.  The positive impact of the project augurs well for continuing high quality HRD activities.
Improved HRD is likely to continue to be practiced in the DGE for TCHRDP-trained staff have
been kept together as a team, funded and given responsibility for overseeing HRD activities in all
DGE projects. HRD is likely to be institutionalized if the interim plan to use the Personnel,
ORTALA (Division of Organization) and Statistics staff as an HRD force in line with the 1995
DGE decree continues to be pursued and the position of head of the Personnel function is filled by
an HRD trained staff member. Funding for HRD is being provided from GOI budgets; and HRD in
all DGE projects is being monitored by staff trained by the TCHRDP. As there is no stand alone
follow-on project for this endeavor, the Bank would need to review progress of the operation in
about five years to further assess the impact of the project objectives through either future Bank
supported project(s) in the DGE or informal sector work (para. 26).
Key Lessons Learned
viii.  The project provides the Bank and Borrower with a number of important lessons
concerning institutional change to accommodate HRD (para. 27):
(a) Government and Bank project designers must have a clear understanding of how
organizational change takes place in the public sector. In the case of TCHRDP, the
difficulty in making organizational change proved to be a major impediment to creating a
focal point for HRD within the DGE. The lesson is that project preparation must invest the
time and other resources to ensure that this understanding is developed;
(b) institutional change projects do not necessarily fit into the normal five year project cycle.
TCHRDP's experience showed that the greatest level of understanding and commitment to
HRD came in the sixth year of implementation;
(c) the complete training process must be systematically managed if sustainable training
practices are to be institutionalized;
(d) because of the uniform structure of ministries in Indonesia, it appears virtually impossible
to bring about structural change in a part (a Directorate General) of a larger Ministry
without the participation of the parent body in the same change process;
(e) technical assistance is needed to create the technical capacity required to manage HRD
successfully. The lesson from this project is that a technical assistance team willing to
share and transfer technology can be very effective;
(f) there needs to be a clear understanding on the part of the concerned institution of the
importance of improving the quality and effectiveness of human resources followed by a
firm commitment to make every necessary effort to support improved HRD;



- v -
(g) regular visits and continuity of staff from the Bank are essential in such projects because
institutional change has cycles of apparent progress and regression as support waxes and
wanes and changes in personnel and regulations occur. It is essential that the Bank "stay
the course" in terms of advice and support;
(h) continuity of counterpart staff is essential if true capacity building is to be achieved; and
(i) clear progress indicators should be agreed at project design stage to serve as reminders of
interim goals for project implementers and supervisors, as benchmarks to be attained before
moving the institutional change process forward, and as a "road map" for managers in the
institution who support change.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (TCHRDP)
(Ln. 2992-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT REVIEW
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objective of the project was to improve productivity in the tree crops subsector by
enhancing subsector manpower management capability and building subsector capacity to develop
its human resources in the Directorate General of Estates (DGE). Through the training of
specialized trainers, the project was to upgrade managers, technical and supervisory staff, extension
workers of the DISBUN (Provincial Offices of Estate Crops) and PMUs2 and farmer leaders, which
would lead to more effective interaction with smallholders, bringing about increased productivity in
key smallholder export crops. By the end of project implementation, training capacity was to have
been strengthened and human resource development functions institutionalized in the DGE.
2.    The project had three components:
(a)  Strengthening the Directorate General of Estates through (i) establishing HRD capacity
within DGE; (ii) providing improved managerial and technical support for field staff
and smallholders; (iii) providing overseas fellowships, and management and technical
training for DGE staff; and (iv) carrying out a study to improve the existing
management information system in the DGE;
(b)  Improvement of Training Delivery Capacity in the Subsector by (i) training of trainers
(master trainers and crop specific trainers) for the Agency for Agricultural Education
and Training (AAET) to address the training needs of tree crop subsector staff; (ii)
assisting the Estates Training Institute (LPP) in designing and carrying out a financial
management training course; and (iii) institutional strengthening of the LPP
Yogyakarta and Medan campuses; and
(c)  Improvement of Subsectoral Productivity: Local Training Programs, including
management and technical training for field staff (DISBLN and PMUs), extension
worker training, training of trainers for the farmer leader training program, farmer
leader training, financial management training courses for financial and non-financial
staff and training for newly established area development officers.
2 Project Management Units of the GOI Scheme to assist smalilholders.



- 2 -
3.    The overall objective was consistent with the Government's strategy to increase export
earnings from the key targeted tree crops by alleviating the institutional and manpower constraints in
the subsector, and was in line with the Bank's strategy for assistance in tree crops subsector
development in Indonesia. The objective was clear and the project intervention was timely, as
illustrated by a number of factors related to human resource development that are currently receiving
broad government attention. These factors include: decentralization of government; the national
goal of improving human resources over the next quarter century; a policy of zero growth in the civil
service (which implies that those remaining will have to be more productive); and lively debate in
the public sector on how to make human resources more effective and efficient.
4.    The project was appraised in 1986 and post-appraised in 1987, and became effective in
January 1989. During the period 1990-91, a number of significant changes in the tree crops
subsector took place, which had implications for the project. Among these were the termination of
the PRPT scheme 3; the shift of extension responsibility to local government and the DISBUN; and
the transfer of extension staff to local government authority. The essential change in subsector focus
was to shift attention to areas of slower development and to the eastern part of the country,
emphasizing less traditional estate crops such as cashew, pepper, cotton, cocoa and others; to
encourage a new approach to smallholder development whereby farmers would receive a grant for
one or two years which would be followed by bank credit and assistance from the private sector;
train or retrain substantial numbers of field extension staff who were reassigned to DGE from other
subsectors; and upgrade the capacity of the Heads of District Estate Crops Services (DISBUN) to
help cope with the new autonomy being devolved to that level. To meet the new demands of the
subsector, the Government requested, and the Bank agreed, to amend the Loan Agreement to cover
26 provinces versus the 14 covered originally for the key smallholder tree crops (e.g., rubber,
coconuts and coffee).
5.           Building HRD capacity is essentially bringing about institutional change. What we
learned is that it is a process that moves at its own pace, and that institutional change projects do not
necessarily fit into normal five year project cycle. In retrospect, during project preparation and
appraisal, more attention should have been paid to understanding constraints to institutional change
in the Indonesian public sector (paras. 17 and 22).
B. Achievement of Objectives
Strengthening the Directorate General of Estates
6.    The overall objective of strengthening the capacity of the DGE to manage its human
resources was met. Previous Bank-supported subsector projects contained project-related training
components but these components were not managed in a systematic and sustainable manner. The
DGE staff members who were appointed as counterparts to the technical assistance team acquired
HRD knowledge, skills and technology through advanced studies overseas and, by working with the
technical assistance team, gained practical experience in planning and implementing a variety ol-
HRD related activities. They demonstrated a growing ability to undertake HRD work unassisted
These staff members now form a core of the human resource development capacity within the DGE.
3 GOI's partially assisted extension support program for smallholders.



- 3 -
and have the responsibility of applying training management principles to all ten projects under
implementation in the subsector. DGE management has, through interaction with staff seconded to
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and senior staff workshops and seminars, become familiar
with the concepts and methodology of human resource development and management, and
appreciates the HRD approach to managing human resources. This increased capacity in the PIU
(and therefore the DGE) together with increased awareness and understanding of the logic and
usefulness of an HRD and HRM (human resource management) approach led to the conclusion that
an HRD focal point needed to be formally established to ensure that HRD/HRM were sustained
when the project was completed.4 However, government regulations did not allow the DGE to
establish an HRD unit within the structure of the DGE. Eventually, when a ministerial decree stating
that the broad personnel function also encompassed HRD was issued towards the end of the project,
a DGE decree was promulgated which, for now, clearly identifies HRD as a key element within the
DGE (para. 17).
7.    During project implementation it became apparent that capacity needed to be created at field
level (province and district) to undertake HRD activities if the estate crops subsector was to show
increased efficiency and productivity gains through more skilled and motivated staff. In practical
terms, this meant that the province and district Estate Crops Service would take responsibility for
training needs assessments, identifying staff and farmer leaders who need training, proposing
training programs for funding, managing the implementation of training programs and undertaking
training program evaluation. Essentially the model would see DGE's central HRD function as
dealing with higher and middle level staff training and providing technical support while the
DISBUN's HRD function was to deal with field staff and farmer leader HRD/training. Both levels
would be part of the DGE capacity to manage human resources. To make this model a working
reality, considerable efforts were made to create capacity through seminars and workshops at
DISBUN I and II levels which would handle HRD and to "sell" the concepts and value of
HRD/HRM to DISBUN managers. In support of the focus on further increasing appreciation of
HRD concepts the project was extended by one year to December 31, 1995.
8.    In parallel to this emphasis on creating HRD capability in the DISBUNs in provinces and
districts, the national decentralization initiative became a reality in 1991 and agriculture sector
extension became the responsibility of local government with the district as the focal point. This
meant, in effect, that HRD efforts needed to be focused on the district local government structure in
support of tree crops and other agriculture subsectors rather than on the DISBUNs. DISBUN staff
would serve as trainers and resource persons in the transfer of new and improved technology to tree
crop subsector extension staff so the project investment in sensitizing them to HRD would not be
wasted.
9.    A variety of very useful manuals/guidelines and handbooks were prepared (Annex 1),
dealing with human resource development and management, training needs assessments, planning
and implementing training programs and training evaluation, and extensively utilized by project
staff. Training materials to support management and technical training for DGE headquarters staff
and for field staff were also developed. Some of these materials, which were prepared in English,
4 The findings of a study team charged by the Director General of Estates to make recommendations on HRD sustainability, are
contained in a document entitled: "DGE HRD Capability-Building Plans and Guidelines", 1993.



were translated into Bahasa Indonesia and released for use in the subsector, and there was
considerable interest in obtaining the materials by other agriculture sector projects in and outside the
DGE. Some of these materials have been used also by other projects and institutions. However, by
the end of the project, a number of documents had not been translated to Bahasa Indonesia due, in
part, to difficulties in obtaining agreement on the most applicable Bahasa Indonesia equivalent for
certain technical HRD/HRM terms. These training materials and guidelines are a valuable resource
which can significantly contribute to the sustainability of quality training in the DGE. The
documents will need to be updated at appropriate intervals.
10.   The manpower planning study was completed satisfactorily and, for the first time, the DGE
had comprehensive data on its large complement of human resources. Its recommendations were
accepted by the DGE, disseminated among the key staff groups in the subsector and, at project
completion, were being used to review the distribution of staff throughout the subsector. The
findings of the study were used for the preparation of Repelita VI strategic plans, and some of the
recommendations such as those relating to staff recruitment, performance evaluation and career
development were being pursued. However, the study findings are now dated and DGE will need to
bring them up to date periodically.
11.   The Management Information System (MIS) had a difficult start-up. Despite the effort of a
consulting team hired to improve and redesign the existing MIS in the DGE, potential users were not
fully conversant with the possible uses and advantages of a DGE wide system. The issues of
operation and maintenance funding for data collection and analysis and upgrading of equipment
were also not fully appreciated. Before it reached the operational stage, the MOA developed and
introduced an MOA-wide MIS which made large parts of the DGE-MIS redundant. At project
closing, only the personnel and, to a lesser extent, statistics subsystems developed under the project
were being used to supplement the MOA system, and useful reports were being generated.
Improvement of Training Delivery Capacitv in the Subsector
12.   Training delivery capacity was markedly increased during the life of the project. The PIU
counterparts to the technical assistance team participated in training needs assessments (TNA),
learned how to conduct such analyses and undertook TNA on their own. The same counterparts
learned how to analyze the needs assessments and design training programs which were contracted
either to AAET or LPP. The latter two organizations provided training for the subsector only after
detailed discussion with PIU members, thereby increasing the focus and impact of training and the
utilization of relevant teaching aids. PIU counterparts learned how to negotiate training contracts
with outside agencies and conduct impact evaluation. All training was prepared and analyzed on this
basis with a view to improving training quality as far as possible. The continuation of accurate TNA
for all future training conducted within the DGE or for tree crops in the decentralized system will be
critical for the maintenance and continued growth of DGE personnel quality.
13.   A cadre of master/lead trainers was created in AAET through overseas fellowship and
customized training programs. Upon successful completion of the studies, returnees were appointed
as master trainers at key inservice training centers and continue to serve after project closing. The
master trainers designed and modified training curricula for all major tree crops. LPP also increased
its staff capacity in a number of fields through advanced degrees and by providing regional and in-



country study visits to broaden exposure to advances in various aspects of estate crop technology.
Financial management courses (FMC) for financial and non-financial staff of PTPs as well as private
companies were developed and implemented at LPP with the help of technical assistance. However,
due to a shortage of time, the consultant was unable to complete a key item of designing and
producing computer-based case studies to be used in conjunction with the course materials. There
was good demand, in particular, for the finance course for non-financial staff. At project closing,
LPP reported that recruiting participants for FMC would not be a problem. Eight people were
running the FMC at both Yogyakarta and Medan campuses with the assistance of four external
resource persons. With regard to cost recovery of the FMC, LPP was, at project closing, negotiating
fees with private companies. All equipment except a few non-operating items procured under the
project was in use. All of these successful project inputs contributed to a significant increase in
training delivery capacity in AAET and LPP.
lmprovement of Subsectoral Productivity: Local Training Programs
14.   The project was designed to provide farmer leaders with packages of three training activities
per year to reinforce technology transfer, adjust training to participant feedback on application of
technology, and increase the leadership visibility of participants. During implementation DGE
management decided to modify the packages of training activities to obtain a greater numerical
coverage of farmer leaders with the result that many of the subsequent training activities were
offered to participants once only. In a situation where extension programs are available to farmers,
one-off training with follow up from the field extension staff can be effective, but in the case of
TCHRDP, farmners' extension cover was sparse.5 Although the quantitative outcome of project
assisted training for farmer leaders exceeded SAR targets (Table 5B), the reduced frequency of
training for most groups may have reduced the hoped for impact on productivity.
15.   It was hoped at project design stage to measure the impact of local training programs for
smallholders in terms of increased productivity, but this proved difficult to do. First, the project
design did not identify control areas where farmers would obtain no training assistance. Second, the
agreed program of training for smallholders would have trained the same farmers a number of times
per year. But, the program was modified by the implementing agency in favor of one-off training
for larger numbers of farmers in a variety of settings. Third, the influence of price on the intensity of
rubber tapping can confound productivity observations and, indeed, during project implementation
rubber price increases led to intensified tapping. The PIU undertook a post project review of a
sample of farmers' group members whose group leaders had been trained to pass along improved
technology, and the positive results indicated that, in the case of those sampled, the improved
techniques had been passed to the farmers and were being used. This may point to a positive
directional trend which, if generalized, could lead to increased productivity. The confirmed transfer
and use of improved techniques by project smallholders are very likely to have increased
productivity and led to a positive impact on poverty reduction.
5 In its comments on the draft ICR, the DGE indicated that necessary field extension services will be provided in the future to
follow up on training undertaken during the project.



- 6-
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors generally subject to government control
16.   Project design included consultant services to assist in the establishment and management of
the HRD functions, manpower planning and development, training needs assessment and training
program planning, and training program coordination and evaluation, which are basic elements in
building HRD capacity. The services provided by the consulting firm were very effective and made
significant contributions to HRD capacity building in the DGE. The project obtained the services of
companies to manage the overseas fellowship program, and the outcome was satisfactory despite the
expensive nature of the service provided.
17.   Building HRD capacity essentially involves making institutional changes. The biggest
barriers to "success" were government regulations which standardized institutional structures and
which weighed heavily against change. It made it impossible, in the case of this project, to create a
clear focal point within the institution for HRD. It was only towards the end of the project, after
concerted efforts made by both the Government and the Bank and a ministerial decree had been
issued, that the DGE proposed an alternative solution which would strengthen the HRD function in
the existing structure, i.e., the Personnel Division, its subdivisions, the Division of Organization and
the Sub-directorate of Statistics would, together, form an HRD resource. A Decree was issued in
August 1995 by the Director General of Estates, which was based on a ministerial decree that
described the role of the personnel function in the MOA, defining an approach to gradually
developing a focal point for HRD within the DGE (para. 6). In retrospect, during project preparation
and appraisal, more efforts should have been made to clearly understand how organizational change
takes place in the public sector and emphasize the importance of improving the quality and
effectiveness of human resources followed by a firmer commitment to make every effort to support
improved HRD.
18.   The timing of releases of the annual agreed budget (DIP) did not favor effective training.
This is a common problem in the Indonesian public sector context whereby funds are released in two
major tranches spurring training activities often at inappropriate times as far as the agricultural
calendar and assessed needs are concerned.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
19.   Appointment of full-time project managers, and qualified and devoted key counterpart staff
to the project was one of the factors that contributed to satisfactory project implementation. The key
counterparts became, and continued as, the core members of the HRD capacity building group. Also
under the control of the implementing agency were appointments, choice of candidates for overseas
study, level of management support for the project and its objectives, internal fund release, and the
scope of the project in terms of expansion from the originally agreed 14 provinces to 26 and the
inclusion of commodities other than those targeted in the SAR.



- 7-
D. Project Sustainability
20.   Clear indications of project sustainability had emerged at project close. The HRD trained
staff who formed the PIU were to continue their HRD work for the following year funded by GOI
and availability of funding to continue the work in future was highly likely. The one year work
program would continue the task of exposing senior and regional staff to HRD concepts and
undertake a number of investigations related to HRD in the DGE. A further development was the
decision to have the HRD trained staff take responsibility for coordinating all training components in
existing and future foreign assisted projects in the DGE. Sustainability of HRD quality was further
assured by the increased capacity of AAET and LPP to provide technical and management training
in response to needs based requests from DGE and its project units.
E. Bank Performance
21.   The Bank's performance in terms of continuity of task management and supervision was
good. Institutional change usually occurs in fits and starts, with periods of considerable progress,
being followed by consolidation phases. The latter are usually linked to changes in management,
altered priorities, staff transfers and opposition to change by the wider bureaucracy. It is therefore
extremely important that Bank staff provide continuity of supervision and develop a sense of
progress even if momentum slows from time to time. Less satisfactory was the agreement to reduce
the program of training for smallholders to one-off training sessions and the expansion of the project
scope to 26 provinces from the original 14. These decisions may have resulted in a dilution of the
project's impact on smallholder productivity.
F. Borrower Performance
22.   Borrower performance during project implementation reflected the problems inherent in
institutional change but, overall, was supportive and constructive. At project startup there was some
difficulty in obtaining full time counterpart DGE staff to work with the technical assistance
personnel but this situation improved and continuity of counterparts stabilized. Management support
for HRD and HRM reflected the level of understanding and commitment of individuals and the
impact of staff changes, but by the end of project implementation the level of management support
was quite high. PIU counterpart staff benefited greatly from close and productive interaction with
the technical assistance team, performed extremely well and developed high levels of HRD skills
and understanding. Project reporting was comprehensive and timely. Less satisfactory was the slow
support for institutional change required to make HRD work effectively although, towards the end of
project implementation, the level of support was quite high. Borrower performance was related to
the difficult process of bringing about institutional change in the public sector. Even when
Directorate General staff saw the need for change, government-wide regulations and traditions had
to be overcome and progress proved unpredictable. This factor has important implications for the
duration of institutional change type projects.



- 8-
G. Assessment of Outcome
23.   The project had an impact beyond the DGE and the MOA and was regarded by MENPAN as
a model for other Ministries embarking on the process of establishing HRD capacity. A newly
formed Board in the MOA adopted the TCHRDP model of HRD, a further indication of positive
project impact. Within the DGE there was considerable appreciation of the need for sound and
systematic HRD, for a focal point where HRD expertise can be found and utilized, and the
involvement of managers in actively managing human resources. There was similar appreciation al
Provincial and District levels as a result of project work with Dinas Perkebunan (DISBUN) levels 1
and 2.6  However, it was not clear if the MOA fully appreciated the potential for improved
HRD/HRM as no clear signals were noted during project implementation. The DGE had a core of-
well-qualified and practical HRD practitioners who were skilled in all key aspects of HRD work, and
fortunately the DGE decided to support their continuing efforts using GOI funds. One of the agreed
tasks of the DGE HRD group was to review training proposals in all new and on-going externall)
funded projects to identify overlaps and gaps in training and to propose remedial measures. This.
task should help rationalize training in the DGE and eventually lead to more effective stafl'
performance. A series of useful HRD manuals was produced and was available not only for the use
of DGE but also other public sector bodies interested in improving HRD. The capacity of AAET
and LPP to provide quality tailor-made training improved due to interaction with the PIU irl
developing project-related training programs and through the training of specialized trainers for both
institutions in a fellowship program included in the project.
24.   The rating for "assessment of outcome" was classified as "satisfactory" as the project:
attained its overall objective of building HRD capacity in the DGE without major shortcomings and
its sustainability is very likely (paras. 6, 12, and 14). A rate of return was not calculated for
TCHRDP because at the time of appraisal, rates of return were not required for social sector projects.
Experience with TCHRDP suggests that it would be extremely difficult to calculate a meaningfu[
rate of return given the complex and largely unpredictable nature of institutional capacity building.
25.   HRD/HRM  capacity is difficult to measure as it is not easily quantifiable.  During
implementation, an attempt was made to measure HRD/HRM capacity, and a set of indicators were
discussed with the PIU staff and a useful exchange of ideas followed. It was concluded that it is
necessary, at project design stage, to agree on a set of monitoring indicators to serve as reminders of
interim goals for project implementers and supervisors, as benchmarks to be attained before moving
the institutional change process forward, and as a "road map" for managers in the institution who
support change (Annex 2). Also, in projects where the process of institutional change is supported,
regular visits and continuity of staff from the Bank and the concerned institution are essential in that
the Bank "stay the course" in terms of advice and support as the institution goes through the cycle;
of apparent progress and regression associated with institutional changes.
6 Estate crops service at province and district levels.



-9-
H. Future Operation
26.   The positive impact of the project augurs well for continuing high quality HRD activities.
Improved HRD is likely to continue to be practiced in the DGE for TCHRDP-trained staff have been
kept together as a team, funded and given responsibility for overseeing HRD activities in all DGE
projects. HRD is likely to be institutionalized if the interim plan to use the Personnel, ORTALA and
Statistics staff as an HRD force in line with the 1995 DGE decree continues to be pursued and the
position of head of the Personnel function is filled by an HRD trained staff member. Funding for
HRD is being provided from GOI budgets, and HRD in all DGE projects is being monitored by staff
trained by the TCHRDP (para. 20). As there is no stand alone follow-on project for this endeavor,
the Bank would need to review progress of the operation in about five years to further assess the
impact of the project objectives through either future Bank supported project(s) in the DGE or
informal sector work.
1. Key Lessons Learned
27.   The project provides the Bank and Borrower with a number of important lessons concerning
institutional change to accommodate HRD and HRM:
(a) Government and Bank project designers must have a clear understanding of how
organizational change takes place in the public sector. In the case of TCHRDP the
difficulty in making organizational change proved to be a major impediment to creating
a focal point for HRD within the DGE. The lesson is that project preparation must
invest the time and other resources to ensure that this understanding is developed (paras.
5, 6 and 17);
(b) institutional change projects do not necessarily fit into the normal five year project
cycle. TCHRDP's experience showed that the greatest level of understanding and
commitment to HRD/HRM came in the sixth (one year extension) year of
implementation (paras. 5 and 22);
(c) the complete training process must be systematically managed if sustainable training
practices are to be institutionalized (paras. 6 and 12);
(d) because of the uniform structure of ministries in Indonesia it appears virtually
impossible to bring about structural change in a part (a Directorate General) of a larger
Ministry without the participation of the parent body in the same change process. The
DGE was unable to establish an HRD unit despite its acknowledgment of the
importance of such a unit for the sustainability of human resource development and
management. The project showed that this phenomenon is also found in the relationship
between the DGE and the Provinces and Districts--if the DGE does not change then the
others cannot (paras. 6 and 17);



- lo-
(e) technical assistance is needed to create the technical capacity required to manage HRD
successfully. The lesson from this project is that a technical assistance team willing to
share and transfer technology can be very effective (para. 16);
(f) there needs to be a clear understanding on the part of the concerned institution of the
importance of improving the quality and effectiveness of human resources followed by
a firm commitment to make every effort to support improved HRD. In the case of the
TCHRDP, it would appear that understanding and commitment developed as the project
was implemented and became quite strong as the project drew to a close (para. 17);
(g) regular visits and continuity of staff from the Bank and the concerned institution are
essential in projects where the process of change is being supported. It is essential that
the Bank "stay the course" in terms of advice and support as the institution goes through
the cycles of apparent progress and regression associated with institutional change
(paras. 21 and 25);
(h) continuity of counterpart staff is essential if true capacity is to be achieved. TCHRDP
clearly demonstrated this (para. 22); and
(i) clear progress indicators should be agreed at project design stage to serve as reminders
of interim goals for project implementers and supervisors, as benchmarks to be attained
before moving the institutional change process forward; and as a "road map" for
managers in the institution who support change (para. 25).



- I I -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2992-IND)
Part II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives            Substantial        Partial          Negligible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                         El                a                  al
Sector Policies                          l               [                 E l
Financial Objectives                   E                 E                  0                    l
Institutional Development                                U                 I                   LI
Physical Objectives                                                                            El
Poverty Reduction                                        E                 E                   El
Gender Issues                           al               a                  a 
Other Social Objectives                E                 E                                     El
Environmental Objectives                                                   El E0
Public Sector Management                E                                  El
Private Sector Development                               El
Other (specify)                                          L                 El                  E
B. Project Sustainability                  Likely                    Unlikely                    Uncertain
El)                        (v)                          (V)
E                           El                          El



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory           Satisfactory                Deficien
(V)                      (/)                        (1)
Identification                                                 I                          III
Preparation Assistance                a                          I                        i
Appraisal                            El                                                   El m
Supervision                          E                           l                        E
D. Borrower Performance                         satisfactory    Satisfactor      Deficient
('/)            (/)             (1)
Preparation                                      l             E                El
Implementation                                 E                               I]
Covenant Compliance                                            17"!
Operation (if applicable)                        l             E                El
Hiehly                                              Higy
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactry      unsatifactory
El (E)                             El)               El) I



- 13 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                     Purpose                    Year of            Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Ln. 1692-IND, Second       Upgrade the quality and increase the output  1979     Completed.
Agricultural Training Project    of agricultural technicians and improve
access to training institutions in remote
areas.
2. Cr. 984-IND, Smallholder   Included a training program for some 300    1980      Completed.
Rubber Development I         technical and administrative staff in the
three PMUs
3. Ln. 2007-IND, NES (Nucleus   Included institutional development support  1981    Completed.
Estates and Smallholders) V  for LPP
4. Ln. 2232-IND, NES VII      Contained limited HRD-related technical     1983      Completed.
assistance for the DGE
5. Ln. 2341-IND, Third        Improve the quality and supply of middle   1983       Completed.
Agricultural Training Project   level agricultural manpower, expand the
supply of locally adapted agricultural
extension materials and strengthen
management and planning services for
agricultural training.
6. Ln. 2344-IND, NES Sugar    Address manpower and training programs     1983       Completed.
for staff of seven new estates within the
overall sugar development program.
7. Ln. 2494-IND, Smallholder  Develop staff managerial capacity and train  1985     Completed.
Rubber Development II        over 4,000 farmer group leaders
8. Ln. 2748-IND, Third National   Support for Diploma 3 training for     1986       Completed.
Agricultural Extension Project   agricultural extension workers.
9. Ln. 2880-IND, Irrigation   Strengthen ins.itutional capacity to sustain  1987    Completed.
Subsector Project           the productivity of irrigation systems,
extend irrigation user fees nationwide, turn
over small systems to water user
associations and rationalize existing and
programmed investments in irrigation.



- 14 -
Page 2 of 2
Table 2: (continued)
Loan/credit title                     Purpose                     Year of            Status
approval
Following operations
1. Ln. 3000-IND, Tree Crops   Raise the productivity and efficiency of the  1989     Completed in
Processing Project           tree crop subsector, safeguard smallholder            September 1996.
and estate incomes, and increase non-oil
exports by providing essential processing
facilities and addressing technical,
institutional and marketing constraints on
factory efficiency. Project supports
components including training of
govermment agencies personnel.
2. Ln. 303 1-ND, Agriculture  Increase efficiency and relevance of the    1989       Completed.
Research Management Project   agricultural research system to support
sustained agricultural development by
providing operational support to priority
elements of the ongoing research program
and introducing institutional and
management reforms to improve research.
3. Ln. 3464-IND, Tree Crops    Promote income growth of smallholders in   1992       Under
Smallholder Project          12 outer islands provinces through assisting          implementation
smallholders of rubber and coconuts and
providing extension, demonstration and
training to farmers.
4. Ln. 3886-IND, Second        Support regionalization of agricultural    1995       Under
Agriculture Research         research and development (R&D),                       implementation
Management Project           institutionalization of R&D management at
the regional level, priority commodity and
discipline-oriented research and R&D
collaboration.



- is -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)           07-1985                07-1985
Preparation                                          02-1986                02-1986
Appraisal                                            05-1986                05-1986
Negotiations                                         11-1986                07-1988
Board Presentation                                   01-1987               09-15-1988
Signing                                                                    10-31-1988
Effectiveness                                                             001-04-1989
Midterm review (if applicable)                       11-1991                11-1991
Poject Completion                                   12-31-1993             12-31-1995
Loan Closing                                        12-31-1994             12-31-1995
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Bank FY            FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96
Appraisal Estimate         0.40     1.60    4.40    8.40    12.80    17.20    18.40    18.40
lActual                     0.51    2.78    5.17    8.95    11.40   14.84    16.11    17.00
Actual as%of Estimate      128      174     118      107      89      86       88       92
Date of Final Disburse-
ment - May 30, 1996



- 16 -
Page I of 2
Table 5A: Key Monitoring Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/ President's Report                  Planned
due date           Actual
1. Establishing HRDU/PIU in DGE and strengthening Management and Technical
Capacity at hqs Staff
(a) Employment of TA team for HRD                                       December 1988      October 1989
(b) Selection and posting of 5 counterparts staff for HRD group in PIU  November 1988      May 1989
(c) Preparation and agreement on TA/counterpart training program        January 1989       April 1990
(d) Identification of training sites for HRD counterpart staff          January 1989       1989 - 1990
(e) Enrollment of Ist batch of HRD counterpart staff in advanced training courses   April 1989  August 1989
(f) Appointment of DGE hqs staff for fellowship and short-term training  December 1988     November 1988
(g) Placement of DGE hqs staff in advanced training courses             begin Jan. 1989    began Jan.1989
(h) Appointment of TA to undertake management training activities for DGE hqs   February 1989  April 1990
staff
(i) Design of DGE hqs management training program                       May 1989           July 1990
(j) Implementation of DGE hqs management training program and its evaluation    July 1989  September 1990
(Ist phase)
(k) Completion of MIS study                                             March 1989         April 1990
(1) Commence implementation of MIS study recommendations                from April 1989    April 1990
2. Strengthening Training Delivery Capacity of Subsector Institutions:.
(a) Selection of trainee trainers (about 50 for the NES/PIR farmer leader training,   September 1988    April 1989
55 for SECDP and 367 for PMUs)
(b) Implementation of the Training of Trainers Courses                  Oct.-Nov. 1988     Jan.-Mar. 1990
(c) Posting trainers to ISTCs in project provinces                      March 1989         March 1990
(d) Begin implementation of training program for DISBUN and PMU staff   begin 2d qtr 1989   began I st qtr 91
(e) Selection of AAET candidates for Masters degree program             September 1988    November 1988
(f) Placement of Masters candidates                                     begin Jan. 1989    began Jan., 1989
(g) Selection of Medan campus staff of advanced training                September 1988    November 1989
(h) Placement of Medan staff in selected programs                       March 1989         January 1989
(i) Selection of Yogyakarta staff for advanced training                 September 1988    January 1989
L) Begin placement of trainees                                          Begin Ist qtr 1989   began Sept. 1989



- 17 -
Table 5A (continued)                                                                   Page 2 of 2
L    Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/ President's Report                   Planned
due date           Actual
3. Improving the Capacity of Subsector Staff to Boost Smallholder Productivity by
providing Community and Management Training for DISBUN and PMU staff
(a) Selection of TA for management training needs analysis, course design, and  October 1988  October 1989
materials production
(b) Completion of needs analysis                                        December 1988    July 1990
(c) Completion of course design                                         January 1989       October 1990
(d) Completion of materials preparation                                 July 1989          December 1990
(e) Implementation of training program                                  begin Sept. 1989    began Jan. 1990
(f) Design of technical training program                                Nov/Dec 1988       Sept. 1990
(g) Begin implementation of technical training program                  begin I st qtr 1989   began Feb. 91
(h) Appointment of TA for estates financial management training program.  December 1988    November 1989
(i) Completion of needs analysis                                        March 1989         April 1990
() Completion of training course design, case study writing & field testing  May 1989      October 1991
(k) Implementation of course program                                    begin Ist qtr 1990   began Nov. 91
(1) Procurement of computers and related equipment for FMT program      March 1989         Mar-Sept 1991
(m) Procurement of books and other teacher aids for LPP                 Mar 89-Mar 90      Mar-Sept 1991



- 18-
Page I of 2
Table 5B: Summary Status of Local Training - Planned vs. Actual
(Number of participants)
Revised       Actual
Training    SAR estimnates   estimates        at
Target Group                   Institutions                 Nov 1991&    completion
1994
A. Technical Training:
PMU extension workers                        AAET              2,350         2,923         2,913
PMU supervisors                               AAET             1,260           100           100
PMU assistant managers                       AAET               420           200           200
DGE personnel                                 DGE                30            120           120
PPL ex Binas                                  AAET                 -         2,000         3,400
Satlak P2WK                                  AAET                  -          750           498
PPS                                           AAET                 -          220           279
PLP2WK                                       AAET                  -         1,500         1,150
Assist. Kebun                                 LPP                  -          100            48
Mandor Kebun                                  LPP                  -          100            45
Diploma (D3)                                  Univ.                -          250           291
Plant protection training for PPL            AAET                  -             -           52
Commodity training for extension workers     AAET                             100            100
Subtotal (A)                                    4.            LIU           9 9
B. Managerial & administrative training
PMU managers                               LPP/AAET            1,260         1,260         1,125
DISBUN senior/junior managers              LPP/AAET             670           887           591
DGE headquarters staff                      DGE/PIU              40            38            38
Staff career development training           DGE/PIU                -             -            12
HRD workshops for DGE top managers           Private               -            10           10
HRD training for DGE middle management       Private               -           46            46
HRD workshops for heads of Disbun I           LPP                  -           26            23
HRD training for Disbun middle management     LPP                  -           120           120
Organization design training                  LPP                  -           30            30
Career development training                   LPP                  -           30            30
Training management training                  LPP                  -           30            30
MIS tree crops subsector training            Private               -           40            40
Seedling management training                 AAET                  -           12            12
LPP staff                                   PIU/LPP               11           11            11
Subtotal (B)                                     981            214Q        2am1
C. Financial management
PTPs, managers/accountants                    LPP               340           240           200
Private estates, managers/accountants /a      LPP               160           125            35
Subtotal (C)
/a Actual achievement by project closing was lower than expected due to late start-up of private
estates course.



- 19 -
Table 5B (continued)                                                       Page 2 of 2
Revised        Actual
Training    SAR estimates  estimates Nov       at
Target Group                  Institutions                  1991& 1994     completion
D. farmer leader training
NES/PIR leaders (converted)              PTP/DISBUN            750           1,458          1,460
NES/PIR leaders (in process of conversion)    PTP/DISBUN     4,000           1,627          1,625
PMU leaders (SECDP)                      PMU/SECDP           2,800          4,340           3,970
PMU leaders                                  PMU             6,900              0              0
PIR trans and KIK leaders                    PMU             3,000          1,332           1,332
NES/PIR leaders                              PMU                 -          4,500          4,500
PIR trans                                Private/Disbun          -          3,000          2,880
PIR Lokallkhusus                            Disbun               -           1,300           600
P2WK                                        Disbun               -          6,000          5,847
Swadaya                                     Disbun                          2,000          2,400
Subtotal (D)                                     17.450        25.557         24.614
E. Training of Trainers (TOT)
AAET commodity training                     AAET                50             44             44
Farmer leader training:                     AAET
NES/PIR                                                    56             56             56
PMU (SECDP)                                                55             55             55
PMU (others)                                              367            365            365
TOT for HRD                                 AAET                 -             12             12
Subtotal (E)                                      m              532
F. Area development officers                    LPP               190            113            167
Subtotal (F)                                      190            113            167
TOTAL                                          24_709        377 _



Table 5C: Summary Status of Overseas Fellowships - Planned vs. Actual
(Number of Fellows)
AGENCY/TYPE OF FELLOWSHIPS   APPRAISAL    ACTUAL AT    COMPLETION                                        REMARKS
TARGETS    COMPLETION        AS % OF
TARGET
Directorate General of Estates
Masters' degree program            15            15              100      DGE fellowship was successfully completed. All fellows completed the studies
and returned to the host agency. Particularly, five of them who are members of
the core HRD team have contributed and continue to contribute successfully to
implementation and continuing development of HRD in the DGE.
PhD program                        0              1                -      One fellowship was shifted from LPP.
Short-term study                  30             60             200       Additional short-term study in agribusiness was agreed to meet the new demand of
the DGE.
AAET
Masters' degree program            7              8              114      One MA fellowship was shifted from Secretary General. All eight fellowship
retumees were appointed as Master Trainers at key inservice training centers and
continue to serve after project closing. The Master Trainers have designed and  o
modified training curricula for all major tree crops.
LPP
Masters' degree program            7              6               86      The LPP program was largely successful especially in increasing staff capacity in a
number of fields through advanced degrees. One fellowship was canceled
because the candidate did not reach a level in English proficiency for MA
program.
PhD                                 3             1               33      One fellowship shifted to DGE and one fellow withdrew.
Short-term study                   12            12              100
MOA - Secretara General
Masters' degree program             6             5               83      One fellowship was shifted to AAET. All fellows completed the studies and
retumed, but some fellows encountered difficulty in re-entering.
TOTAL - Degree Program              38             362                      Overall, the overseas fellowship program was successfully completed. DGE
- Short-term study           42             72             171         management discussed the re-entry issue and, to utilize the returning fellows
more effectively, decided to place all retuming fellows first in appropriate
projects where they can practice their newly acquired knowledge and skills
before placing them in structural positions.



Table 5D: Summary Status of Technical Assistance
Completion of
work            Cost ($'000)       Person month
List of TA                                     Imple-
Contract/Activities       Purpose/Objective       menting   Origi-   Actual  Original  Actual       Oriagi-  Actual                  Remarks
agency   nal plan          plan /a               nI plan
A. Human resource      Building capacity for human  PIU        03/93    12/95    1,600      2,531      128      148    The role of TA in HRM/HRD capacity
development and     resource development and                                                                          building was critical in achieving the project
management          management in the DGE and                                                                         objectives. TA program was completed
prepare staff development                                                                        successfully providing technical and policy
program of DGE                                                                                   advice and guidance. Findings of a manpower
study which generated very comprehensive
data on its large complement of human
resources, were used for preparation of
Repelita VI strategic plans and some of the
recommendations are being pursued.
B. MIS study           Design and install an effective   PIU   10/89    04/90      238        267       24        24    Study completed and the system installed but
management information                                                                           was not very successful and only Personnel
system                                                                                           and Statistics databases are being used. While
attempts were made to get the system
operational, the MOA developed and
introduced a ministry-wide database which
made large parts of the DGE MIS redundant.
C. Improve sectoral    Develop management training    AAET     03/89    04/90       43         48       18        18    Completed but less than satisfactory. Course
training capacity   courses for DISBUN and PMU                                                                        materials improved by DGE consultants.
staff
D. Financial          Training needs analysis, and  LPP        06/91    10/91      610        601       74        74    Preparation of the courses successfully
management courses  design and implementation of                                                                     completed. However, due to shortage of time,
financial management courses                                                                     the consultants was unable to complete
for PTP staff and private estate                                                                 designing and producing computer based case
personnel                                                                                        studies. Implementation of training courses
started in 11/93.
TOTAL                        2.491      3.447      244      264
/a Baseline costs.



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study              at Appraisal/Redefined                        Status                                       Impact of Study
1. MIS study       The study was to review the MIS  The study was completed in Sept. 1990. However,  The Personnel and parts of Statistics Databases only were
operating in the DGE and to make    the DGE-wide system did not become fully  being used and generating useful reports at project
recommendation for the creation of   operational for several reasons, mainly (i)  completion, to supplement the Ministry-wide MIS.
improved systems which would    potential users were not fully conversant with the
better serve future needs.       possible uses and advantages of a DGE-wide
system; (ii) the issue of operation and
maintenance funding for data collection and
analysis, and maintenance and upgrading of
equipment was also not fully appreciated; and (iii)
a Ministry-wide system was developed and
introduced, which made significant parts of the
DGE-wide system redundant.
2. Manpower study    The purpose of the study was to  Completed.                                  The study provided the DGE, for the first time, with very
define and create a system for                                                comprehensive data on its large complement of human
manpower planning and                                                        resources. These data were used for the preparation of
development of staff and farmer                                               Repelita VI strategic plans. Its recommendations were
leaders for the sub- sector                                                   accepted by the DGE. At project completion, some of the
recommendations such as those related to staff recruitment,
performance evaluation and career development were being
pursued.
3. HRD capacity     This internal study which was not    Based on the findings of a study team, DGE  The study confirmed that a HRD unit needed to be
building study    planned originally, emerged during   HRD Capacity-Building Plans and Guidelines  established to sustain HRD-related activities. It contributed
implementation to make recom-    were produced.                               significantly to deepening understanding of the logic and
mendations to DGE management                                                  usefulness of a HRD/HRM approach among DGE
on HRD sustainability.                                                        managers.



- 23 -
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         ActuaVLatest Estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign      Total      Local       Foreign       Total
Item                                 Costs       Costs                   Costs       Costs
I.Strengthening DGE
Human Resources Development              0.8         1.6         2.4         1.3         2.6          3.9
Staff Development Program                0.1         0.7         0.8         1.0         1.2          2.2
Management Info. System Study            0.0         0.2         0.2         0.1         0.2          0.3
Subtotal                   09          2.          34          2A           40          64
2. Improvement of Training Delivery
Capacity in the Subsector
AAET                                     1.6         1.2         2.8        0.6          0.8          1.4
LPP                                      0.9         2.1         3.0        0.7          1.1          1.8
MOA Secretary General                    0.1         0.2        0.3         0.0          0.3         0.3
Subtotal                   25                      6                       22           3.5
3. Improvement of Sectoral Productivity --
Local Training Programs
ProjectManagementUnits                   5.5         0.6         6.1        5.9          0.6         6.5
DISBUN                                   0.4        0.1          0.5        2.5          0.2         2.7
PTPs                                     0.3         0.0         0.3        0.4          0.0         0.4
Private Estates                          0.2         0.0         0.2        0.3          0.0         0.3
Farmer Leaders                           4.2         0.8         5.0        2.5          0.3         2.8
Subtotal                  1M.O         .5          12.1        11.6        L.          127
Baseline Costs                14.1       7i,         2.1         IS.          7           22.6
Contingencies                              3.8         1.2         5.0
TOTAL                     17.9          8     :               15i  3  226&
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)         Actual/Latest Estimate (S$M)
Local      Foreign      Total      Local       Foreign      Total
Source                  Costs      Costs                   Costs       Costs
IBRD/IDA                                   9.7         8.7        18.4        9.7          7.3        17.0
Domestic Contribution                      8.2         0.0         8.2        5.6          0.0         5.6
TOTAL                                    1.29.                   X,6         151 3U                  22 6



- 24 -
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement      Section    Covenant Present  Original   Revised              Description of                Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment           covenant
date       date
Loan         4.01(b)           I        C       12/31              Furnish to the Bank a certified copy The last audit report is
each year            of audit report on project accounts.  due 12/31/96.
Loan         Sch. 5.1 (a)      5      CP /a  12/31/88              Maintain within DGE aPIU with    The strongPIU
and (b)                                               functions and responsibilities    functioned well guided
satisfactory to the Bank, which  by DGE, MOA and
would be guided by a Management Bappenas. The
Board represented by DGE, AAET, Management Board did
AARD, Sec. General of MOA,       not function as
MOF and Bappenas.                envisaged.
Loan         Sch. 5.1 (c)      9        C    12/31/88              By December31 of each year,
each year             commencing December 31, 1988,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a
proposed budgetary allocation for
activities for the following fiscal
year.
Loan         Sch. 5.1 (d)     9         C    12/31/88              By December31 of each year,
each year             commencing December 31, 1988,
prepare and fumish to the Bank for
review and comments, training
programs for the following fiscal
year, and thereafter carry out such
training programs.
Loan         Sch. 5.1(e)      9         C    12/31/90              By December 31, 1990, prepare
and furnish to the Bank for review
and comments, detailed annual
plans for canrying out the human
resource development activities,
and thereafter, taking into account
Bank's comments, implement such
detailed plans
/a Complied with in modified form.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                 8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                    allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with                           CP =  complied with partially
CD =  complied with after delay                        NC =  not complied with



-25 -
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs /a
Planned                         Revised                         Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle                     Weeks    US$000                   Weeks   US$000    Weeks   US$000
1Through Appraisal                       na               na               na              na                93.6            77.3
Appraisal-Board                         na               na               na              na                60.9          160.0
Board-Effectiveness                     na               na               na              na                 4.9            13.4
Supervision                             na              na                na              na                79.7          223.2
Completion                                 11.5             49.8              7.5           36.5             4.0            18.0
TOTAL                                  na              na               na              na               243.1           491.9
/a Data on 'planned' and 'revised' except for completion are not provided by the MIS.
TablelO: BankResources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                 Specialized               Implemen    Develop-
Stage of         Month/         of      Days in      Staff Skills              -tation       ment         Types of
Project Cycle        Year       Persons    Field       Represented                Status     Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal      03/85           3         12      - Training Specialist
- Agricultural Specialist
- FinancialManpower
10/85          3         11      -Ag. Economist
- Manpower Spec.
- Agric.Training Specialist
02/86-         4         14       - Economist
03/86                             - Tree Crops Specialist
- Agric. Trainer
- Operations Analyst
Appraisal through      05/86-          3         22      - Agric. Trainer
Board Approval         06/86                             - Economist
- Agric. Specialist
11/86          1          7      - Agric. Training Spec.
05/87          1          7       - Agric. Training Specialist
Board Approval
through Effectiveness



- 26-
Performance Rating
Number                  Specialized               Implemen    Develop-
Stage of          Month/         of      Days in       Staff Skills               -tation       ment         Types of
Project Cycle         Year       Persons     Field       Represented                 Status     Objectives      Problems
Supervision             06/89           3          5       - Agric. Training Spec.          1
- Operations Assistant
- Architect
11/89          3          5       - Agric. Training Spec.           I            I        Provision of fiulltime
- Architect                                            counterparts
- Operations Analyst
05/90          2           5       - Snr. Agric. Tmg. Spec.         I            I        Procurement delay
- Auditor
02/91          4           5       - Snr. Tmg. Specialist           1            l        Training program for
- Operations Assistant                                 fanner leaders.
- Architect
- Loan Oper. Officer
11/91          5          8        - Snr. Tmg. Specialist           I            I        Computer procurement
- Operations Assistant                                 for MIS
- Architect
- Loan Oper. Officer
- Operations Officer
12/92          1           5       - Sm. Tmg. Specialist           2            2         DGE MIS develop-
ment
06/93          4           8       - Snr. Tmg. Specialist          2             2
- Operations Analyst
- Operations Officers (2)
12/93          4          8       - Snr. Tmg. Spec.                2            2        Measures for sustaina-
- Operations Officers                                 bility and HRD
- Operations Analyst                                   capacity building at
- Economist                                            prov./district level
09/94-         4          14       - Snr. Tmg. Spec.               S             S        Institutionalizing HRD
10/94                             - Operations (2)                                        capacity
- gricultural Officer
04/95           1          4       - SnrTmg. Spec.                 S             S        HRD focal point in
DGE and sustaina-
bility
09/95-         3          11       - Stir. Tmg. Spec               S             S        HRD focal point and
10/95                             - Operations (2)                                       sustainability
Completion              02/96           2          8       - Snr. Training Specialist       -            _
- Operations Anlayst



- 27-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2992-IND)
A List of Key Documents Produced under the Project
Documents on Human Resource Development and Management
1.    Tree Crops Subsector Development Strategies and Guidelines Handbooks, April 1991
2.     A Sketch of DGE's Short- and long-term Human Resource Development Directions -
May 1991
3.     DGE Managerial and Development Guidelines - July 1991
4.     DGE Project Management Operations and Guidelines - July 1991
5.     Proposed DGE HRD/HRM short- and long-term Framework - October 1991
6.     DGE Human Resource Management Strategies and Long-Range Plans - May 1992
7.    Institutionalizing a Sustainable HRD Quality Program (for Disbun I & II) - May 1992
8.     DGE HRD Capability - Building Plans and Guidelines - May 1993
9.    Institutionalizing a Sustainable HRD Quality Program (for DGE Hqs Echelons III & IV)
July 1993
10.    Formulating a HRD Quality Improvement Program (for DGE Hqs Echelons III & IV)
July 1993
Guidelines and Handbooks on Training
1.     Training Needs Assessment - November 1990
2.     Guidelines for Effective Training - January 1991
3.     Proposed Training Component for the Forthcoming PMU-type Project - April 1991
4.     Being A Professional Trainer - May 1991.
5.     Pretesting Training and Communication Materials - June 1991
6.     TCHRDP/DGE Training Management Operations (An Interim Manual) - July 1991
7.     Toward an Effective Staff Training System in the Tree Crops Subsector - September
1991
8.     Tree Crops Subsector Training Measurement and Evaluation Guide - September 1991
9.     Training Needs Analysis Manual, Edition 1, September 1991
10.    TCHRDP/HRD Team Top-Level Training Management and Operations Guidelines -
October 1991
11.    TCHRDP Module Production Manual, Edition 1 - November 1991
12.    Training in the Tree Crops Subsector System Procedures and Responsibilities -
December 1991
13.    Training Data Collection, Processing and Application Manual, Edition I - January 1992



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
14.   Training Module Production Workshop Manual, Edition 2, February 1992
15.   Training Material Production Manual, Edition 2 - March 1992
16.   Tree Crops Subsector Trainers Management Framework - March 1992
17.   Farmer Leader Training Handbook - April 1992
18.   Job Analysis Manual - May 1992
19.   Training Needs Analysis Manual, Edition 2 - May 1992
20.   Training Monitoring and Evaluation Manual, Edition 3 - December 1992
21.   Training Planning Handbooks (Final Draft) - January 1994
22.   Training Preparation Handbooks - January 1994
23.   Farmer Leader Training Handbooks (Final Draft) - January 1994
24.   Training Evaluation Handbook (Final Draft) - January 1994



- 29 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2992-IND)
Possible HRD/HRM Capacity Monitoring Indicators for Future Projects
HRD/HRM capacity is difficult to measure as it is not easily quantifiable. During
project implementation, in an attempt to measure HRD/HRM capacity, a set of indicators were
discussed with the PIU staff and a useful exchange of ideas followed. It was concluded that it is
necessary, at project design stage, to agree on a set of monitoring indicators to serve as reminders of
interim goals for project implementers and supervisors, as benchmarks to be attained before
moving the institutional change process forward, and as a "road map" for managers in the
institution who support change. The following five indicators which were discussed with the PIU
during project implementation could be useful in designing future HRD/HRM capacity building
projects:
(1) Institutional Indicators: Has the Agency institutionalized the HRD/HRM function
within the organization? Is there a focal point which has the authority and expertise to
give leadership for the sustainable practice of HRD/HRM? How developed is the
establishment of a focal point for HRD/HRM? Where does it lie on a continuum
which begins with an ad hoc approach and proceeds through an informal team to a
formal team and to a unit staffed with specialized HRD personnel?
(2) Policy/Planning Indicators: Does the Agency have a HRD policy; does it have a
medium to long-term HRD strategy?
(3) Procedural Indicators: Are Agency's HRD guidelines, manuals, procedures available?
Are they revised to meet the changing needs of the sector?
(4) Resource Indicators: Are sufficient financial resources made available to enable
managers to practice HRD? Is there money for training needs assessment; for training
program design, for training implementation, for evaluation? Are fimds available for
HRD specialists to travel in support of provincial or district HRD? Are the numbers
of suitably qualified HRD staff in the Agency's focal point, directorates and
provincial/district offices adequate to support sustainable HRD activities?



- 30-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
(5) Behavioral Indicators: Does the Agency through its Directors carry out systematic
manpower planning? Are updated job descriptions used for hiring new staff? Are
staff skills matched with the requirements of the job? Are training needs assessments
undertaken?   Do the directorates practice trainee selection based on needs
assessments, undertake training program planning, supervise implementation and
conduct training program evaluation? Are impact assessments to evaluate the value of
training carried out?
The critical test of HRD/HRM capacity is measured by the Behavioral Indicators. If
Agency managers practice human resource management and thereby support human resource
development, they reflect institutional HRD/HRM capacity. However, behavioral indicators,
above, cannot fully measure HRD capacity unless adequate funding is made available to carry out
the programs indicated. The institution must make HRD funding a priority.



- 31 -                         Appendix A
INDONESIA
Tree Crops Human Resource Development Project
(Loan 2992-IND)
Aide Memoire
February 9 -16,1996
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Ms. M. Masuda (Operations Analyst) and Mr. C.
Maguire (Senior Institutional Development Specialist) visited Indonesia from February 9 to 16,
1996 for the preparation of an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Tree Crops
Human Resource Development Project (Loan 2992-IND). The mission held discussions with
officials from the Directorate General of Estates (DGE), Agency for Agricultural Education and
Training (AAET), Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan (LPP-Estates Training Institute), and
MENPAN (State Ministry for Administrative Reform). A list of people met with during the
mission is given in Attachment. The mission would like to express its sincere appreciation for
the cooperation and hospitality extended by the officials of the Government of Indonesia.
2.    One purpose of the mission was to provide advice to the DGE for preparing its own
evaluation input to the ICR. A Draft Report, January 1996, was received from the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The final report along with a summary not to exceed ten pages are
to be submitted to the Bank as soon as possible but not later than May 31, 1996. The report and
the summary should be independent evaluation reports by the Borrower on the project's
execution and initial operation, cost and benefits, Bank's and Borrower's performance of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the extent to which the objectives of the
project were achieved and their sustainability, and lessons learned. The summary will be
attached unedited to the ICR. If the report submitted exceeds ten pages and is not accompanied
by a summary, the ICR will simply note the existence of the full report but it will not be made a
part of the ICR. The mission strongly encourages that a summary be submitted to the Bank to
ensure that the Borrower's views are fully reflected in the ICR.
3.    The mission also reminded the DGE to submit a plan for the 'operational phase' of the
project, including performance indicators to monitor operations and development impact. The
'operational phase' is the period after the project has been completed. It has been agreed that the
operational phase plan will be submitted by March 15, 1996.
4.    The other purpose of the mission was to make the final review of project implementation
prior to preparation of a draft ICR. During a previous mission the project management had been
given a copy of the new ICR procedures and had been requested to provide certain information
and complete various tables about project activities and accomplishments to assist the Bank in its
ICR preparation. The requested materials were provided to the mission prior to or during its visit
and were discussed.



- 32 -                         Appendix A
5.    The mission reviewed project implementation covering, inter alia, aspects of project
design, implementation, planning, organization and costs; project developmental impact, benefits
and sustainability. Special attention was paid by the mission to assessing the sustainability of
HRD capacity established in the DGE. DGE was apprised of the preliminary findings of this
review which are summarized below:
(a)   The project substantially achieved its objective of strengthening capacity of the
DGE to manage its human resources. Members of a core counterpart team
acquired HRD (human resource development) knowledge, skills and technology
through advanced studies overseas, and, by working with the technical assistance
team, gained practical experience in planning and implementing a variety of HRD
related activities. DGE senior managers have deepened their understanding of
HRD concepts and a number of them have adopted an HRD approach in the
management of their staff.
(b)   A manpower study was completed satisfactorily and, for the first time the DGE
has very comprehensive data on its large complement of human resources.
Recommendations of the study have been accepted by DGE although managers
did not immediately make wide use of the data for planning purposes. Later,
however, the findings of the study were used for preparation of Repelita VI
strategic plans and some of the recommendations such as those relating to staff
recruitment, performance evaluation and career development are being pursued.
At project completion the study is being used to review the distribution of staff
throughout the subsector.
(c)   The MIS component was not very successfully implemented and at project close
only Personnel and Statistics databases are being used. Implementation problems
include a failure to fully brief Directors on the capabilities of the MIS, a tradition
of maintaining individual data bases, shortage of funds to collect and process data
from the field and delays in purchasing and installing the system and in debugging
the software. While attempts were made to get the system operational, the
Ministry of Agriculture developed and introduced a ministry database which made
large parts of the DGE MIS redundant.
(d)   The DGE fellowship program was successfully completed although the cost of
hiring the services of private companies to manage placement and supervision of
the trainees was expensive. Despite indications that most of the trainees would
pursue studies with an HRD component only one candidate obtained an HRD
masters qualification. Nevertheless, those who qualified in other fields have
contributed and continue to contribute successfully to implementation and
continuing development of HRD in the DGE.
(e)   Staff of AAET who obtained project supported Master's degrees (8 in all) were
appointed as Master Trainers at key inservice training centers (ISTCs) and
continue to serve after project closing. The Master Trainers have designed and



- 33 -                          Appendix A
modified training curricula for all major tree crops. Fifty AAET staff participated
in an in-country estate crops study tour and benefited from having been able to
compare and contrast a variety of approaches and management styles and so
improve teaching at their centers.
(f)   The LPP subcomponent was largely successful especially in increasing staff
capacity in a number of fields through advanced degrees and by providing
regional and in country study visits to broaden exposure to advances in various
aspects of estate crop technology. The education and training, and consultancy
activities of LPP have been enriched as a result of these project related programs.
Consultancy was provided for the development of a Financial Management
training series at LPP. However, due to shortage of time, the consultant was
unable to complete a key item in his terms of reference namely, designing and
producing computer based case studies to be used in conjunction with the course
materials. While the course materials have proven to be useful and the Financial
Management series popular, LPP recognize that the computer based cases are an
essential part of the package and will eventually have to be produced if the series
is to continue to be attractive and useful to client trainees.
(g)   Purchases of equipment and books for AAET and LPP were made according to
SAR specifications and, apart from delays in delivery, have proved beneficial in
the training programs of both institutions. Book purchases were modest for there
is limited trainee ability to read materials in foreign languages and appropriate
technical books in Bahasa Indonesia are not readily available.
(h)   A comprehensive program of farmer leader training was designed, planned and
implemented first in fourteen provinces and, after the mid-term review, in twenty-
six provinces. Farmer leader training was preceded by needs assessments and
supported by specially designed flipcharts and teaching/learning materials.
Special attention was paid to training trainers in order to assure training of the
highest possible quality. Attempts are being made to assess the impact of
technology and estate crop husbandry training given to farmer leaders on
smallholder application of these technologies at farm level. If farmers are found
to be using the targeted techniques and technologies the project will have a
measure of the success of farmer leader training and the ability of farmer leaders
to transfer technology to farmers. The result of the ongoing survey will be
included in the DGE draft ICR.
(i)   Prospects for sustainability of HRD activities and improved management of
human resources are bright as indicated by a significant increase in understanding
and support for HRD on the part of DGE senior management. Continuing
commitment for HRD activities has been assured for the next financial year and is
likely to continue beyond 1997. There are also plans to include an HRD
component in a future externally funded project to develop a "second phase" of
the now closed TCHRDP. The post project period commences as momentum for



- 34 -                         Appendix A
the development of human resources nationally increases and, with the capacity
now available in the DGE, progress should continue to be made in improving
HRD and the management of human resources.
()   The project has had significant impact within and outside the DGE. Internally
there is visible support for improved HRD in the decision to fund the continuation
of HRD programs and to keep the PIU HRD group together to coordinate and
manage existing and future projects' training components. Externally, TCHRDP
experience has been followed with interest by MENPAN which consider it a very
successful pilot. However MENPAN believes that the pilot would have greater
visibility and impact if it were replicated in a ministry or in a number of
ministries.
(k)   The project produced a number of reports and manuals designed to provide
detailed references for HRD practitioners. There has been demand for these
documents by other DGE projects and from other parts of the Ministry.
Translation of some of the reports to Bahasa Indonesia will further increase the
impact of the project.
Future contribution of the HRD trained staff to DGE HRD.
6.    The mission strongly supports management's decision to keep the HRD group together
and to use their skills and experience to better manage training in existing and future DGE
projects. The following tasks carried out by the group would greatly enhance the impact of HRD
in the DGE:
(a)   Review of all existing training components to identify areas of overlap and
duplication. For example, identifying components which target the exact same
trainee target group; development of curricula where similar or exactly the same
material has been developed in earlier projects; design of flip charts when there
are existing examples which could, with modification, be used; development of
course materials when useable examples from earlier or ongoing projects exist;
design and preparation of manuals and handbooks when there are already many
examples to use directly or with some modification.
(b)   Monitor training components to ensure that all training is based on training needs
assessment and that the impact of training is measured.
(c)   Ensure that long-term higher degree training is based on future needs of the DGE
and that candidates are selected with a clear vision of their contribution to the
DGE on their return.
(d)   Participate as active members of future project preparation teams to supplement
training/HRD specialists in order to ensure the design of training/HRD



- 35 -                          Appendix A
components which meet the needs of the DGE, the subsector and the identified
trainee target groups.
(e)   Continue to raise awareness of senior staff on HRD and HRM through short
seminars.
(f)    Undertake continuous technology assessment so that new  and promising
technology can be fed into the DGE training system at headquarters and in the
provinces. As an outcome of this assessment, a rolling program describing
technology advances should be arranged for Echelon 1 and 2 staff.
(g)   Work with the Personnel Department and ORTALA Divisions to maintain good
training records and continuously update job descriptions.
(h)   Identify staff with good training ability and provide training of trainers programs
for them in order to raise the quality of training offered to staff.
(i)    Continue the process of creating capacity at Provincial, Kabupaten and
Kecamatan levels to undertake training needs assessments, training program
content identification, training program proposals, management of the
implementation of training programs and evaluation of training impact.
7.    The agreed upon schedule of activities and submissions related to ICR production is as
follows:
(a)   The DGE will provide the Bank with its plan for the operational post-project
phase by March 15, 1996 and the final version of the Borrower's evaluation report
as soon as available but not later than May 31, 1996.
(b)   The Bank will provide the DGE with the Bank's draft ICR for comments by July
31, 1996.
(c)   The DGE will provide comments on the Bank's draft ICR by August 31, 1996.
8.    Comments and suggestions discussed at the wrap-up meeting on February 16, 1996:
(a)   The meeting accepted the proposed timetable for production of the draft ICR, a
summary document and a plan for the operational post-project phase. These will
be submitted to the Bank by May 31, 1996 and March 15, 1996, respectively.
(b)   Suggestions for future activities of the HRD group contained in the draft Aide
Memoire were accepted and the mission was informed that some of these
suggestions were already being implemented.



-36 -                          Appendix A
(c)   DGE policy now clearly indicates that staff qualifications and experience will be
utilized to the fullest extent. All future long-term training will be authorized with
the understanding that the trainee, on graduation, will be employed in a position
where his/her skills can be applied within the DGE.
(d)   The mission was informed that limited technical assistance was required to
consolidate the gains made under the TCHRDP and to further extend the HRD
concept to provinces not covered during project implementation. DGE requested
the mission to ask the appropriate Bank authorities if some of the Japanese Grant
Fund earmarked for the TCSDP could be used for hiring the required technical
assistance. It appeared to the DGE that the objectives of the Grant Fund for
TCSDP fitted the objectives of broadening and strengthening HRD in the sub
sector. The mission agreed to raise the matter on its return to Washington.
Attachment: A List of GOI Officials Met



-37-                            Appendix A
Attachment
A List of GOI Officials Met
Directorate General of Estates
Mr. A. Rante Tondok      -     Director General of Estates
Mr. Achmad Mangga Barani -     Secretary to Director General
Mr. Nogoseno             -     Director of Planning
Mr. Basran Madry         -     Director of Plant Protection
Mr. Alauddin             -     Director of Production
Mr. M. Ta'dung           -     Director of Agribusiness
Mr. Saardi Markamin -    -     Director of Seed Development
Ms. Herdiennariati       -     Project Manager
Ms. Irmijati Nurbahar -  -     PIU
Mr. Budiharto            -     PIU
Ms. Nenny Prastiwi       -     PIU
Mr. Abdul Azis           -     PIU
Ms. Asterius Sinaga      -     PIU
Agency for Agrcultural Education and Traning (AAET
Mr. Maman Rivai          -     Head of Planning Division
Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan (
Mr. Hilman Nadjib        -     Director
Mr. Aris Munandar        -     Head of LPP Campus, Yogyakarta
Mr. Mustofa Kamal        -     Head of Planning & Evaluation Division
Ministry of State for Administrative Reform (MNPAN)
Mr. Waluyo Ratam         -     Assistant to the Minister






- 39 -                       Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2992 - IND)
DGE Contribution To The ICR
I. BACKGROUND
1.1. The beginning of the Human Resource Development (HRD) Idea in the Directorate
General of Estates (DGE) was in the early 1983 after the World Bank (WB) assisted by the
Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) conducted a survey to review the implementation of
the Third Five-Year Development Plan of Agriculture sector (Repelita III). From the survey it
can be concluded that the major constraints in the development of the tree crops subsector were
institutional and manpower deficiencies. This finding had been followed by a series of studies
to formulate a proposal of human resource development project which would be implemented
by the DGE and financed by the WB through establishment of a strong manpower unit in the
DGE.
1.2. Originally the cost of the proposed project was estimated at US$ 77.8 million. However,
due to the economic difficulties confronted by the GOI, the cost was scaled down to US$ 26.6
million by reducing the physical target in terms of area coverage i.e. from 26 provinces to only
14 provinces; tree crops commodity from 7 to 3 commodities and the number of participants
covered by the project.
1.3. The proposed project was appraised in May 1986 and negotiated in July 1998. The loan
was signed in October 1988 and the project started in January 1989, that was 3 years later than
expected.
1.4. Due to a delay on the implementation of the project, some people targeted in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) as participants of training program designed in the proposed project
had been changed their tasks and moved to other new tree crop projects created thereafter.
1.5. To accommodate those changes and to hold the achievement of the original project
objective, therefore in the Mid-Term Review done in 1991, some adjustment had been agreed
by the WB and GOI, especially for local training component such as type of training, duration
of training and participants. While the other target components remained unchanged.
1.6.  The modification caused the need for extended length of the project period by one year
from the original closing date of December 31, 1994 to December 31, 1995, in order to



-40-                        Appendix B
accomplish all of the targeted activities. However, at the project close, there was a total balance
of US$ 1,399,811.780 as the result of increasing dollar exchange rate.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
2.1.  The main objective of the project was to improve productivity in the tree crops subsector
by enhancing subsector manpower management capability and building subsector capacity to
develop its human resources.
2.2.  The project would include financing for consultant services, overseas fellowships, local
training, training of trainers, farmer leader training, instructional equipment and materials and
incremental cost to:
a)   strengthen the overall capacity of the DGE to plan, coordinate and monitor and promote
manpower and training for tree crop personnel and farmer leaders through the establishment of
human resource development capability within DGE;
b)   improve the quality of managerial and technical support for DGE field staff and
smallholders by including 15 master's and 30 short-term study visit overseas fellowships,
management training for 40 selected DGE staff and funding of a management information
systems study for the organization;
c)    strengthen training delivery capacity of subsector institutions (AAET and LPP) involved
in subsectoral training by training about 50 trainers specializing in the major tree crops and
making provision for 3 PhD programs, 7 master's degrees, 12 short-term overseas study visit and
11 in-country study tours for LPP staff, and 7 master's degrees for AAET;
d)   improve productivity capacity of the subsector through the provision of technical,
financial and management training for Disbun and PMU staff supporting the production of major
export crops in fourteen provinces;
e)    undertake farmer leader/contact farmer training in group leadership and recommended
practices; and
f)    build capacity for administration of manpower development in the Secretariat General of
the MOA by funding 6 (six) master's degree programs.
During the implementation, a modification of some programs was made in accordance
with the directions, strategies and policies of the DGE.



- 41 -                       Appendix B
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1.  Project implementation started in February 1989 by establishing PIU under the DGE was
led by a project manager and assisted by three divisions, namely: manpower development,
training and monitoring & evaluation; and another two supporting divisions, i.e., administrative
and financial division. The PIU staff who had been trained in the Philippines on manpower
human resource development and planning for 3 three months in 1987 came from the Secretariat
and Directorates within the DGE. Heads of the divisions were assigned as a counterpart of
consultants recruited later on.
3.2.  Consultants who were recruited to assist project in implementing its activities consisted
of manpower planning specialist, training specialist and HRD/M specialist. In the effort to
transfer technology from the consultants, full-time staff were selected and assigned as
counterparts to work together with the consultants. Initially, the cooperation between the
consultant and the counterpart was likely less satisfactory since the counterparts were also
responsible for the administrative matters in the project. The problem was resolved through
assigning them as a team to work closely with the consultants instead of one counterpart for one
consultant. It significantly improved the effectivity of cooperation.
3.3.  HRD activities were relatively new to the DGE that made the consultant assistance was
essential for the counterparts to become aware, understand and internalize those concepts. The
elements covered by the consultants were manpower analysis, HRD/M guidelines & framework
and training management manual. Consultant services were considered to be cost effective since
the manual and guidelines developed by the consultants have been beneficial for the DGE to
develop its human resource. In addition, working together method between the consultants and
the counterparts accelerated the process of transferring technology.
3.4.  The HRD/M consultant together with staff of Secretariat General of MoA and the DGE
conducted a capacity building study and came up with HRD/M guidelines and recommendations.
As a follow up action, the project carried out an awareness, understanding and internalization
workshop on HRD for the DGE and Disbuns staff.
3.5.  Training management manual developed by the training specialist was considered
effective since it had been modified to fit the circumstances. However, manpower study
recommendations done by the manpower planning specialist seemed to be difficult to apply since
most of the recommendations fell under the responsibilities of many agencies, i.e., Secretariat
General of MoA, Ministry of State for Administrative Reform (MENPAN) and the National
Board of Civil Servant Administration (BAKN). In addition, the recommendation covering
career development, recruitment and promotion system for civil servant could not be modified to
accommodate only one sector/subsector partially since the system is subject to the national
standard.  However, some of the recommendations suggesting that there should be no
recruitment of any temporary staff, optimizing the use of project staff and increasing the role of



-42 -                        Appendix B
female within the DGE and approaching BAKN to gain more allotment for the DGE project staff
to be promoted as civil servant from honorer status, had been applied by the DGE management.
3.6.  To utilize the use of consultants to assist the project, there was an adjustment of the
length of consultant services, such as the manpower planning specialist. Initially, the manpower
consultant confined his survey to 12 provinces, and concerned to 3 commodities for the Disbuns
and smallholder projects. In the effort to gain better insight into subsector manpower strategr
and needs, the scope was expanded into 26 provinces where PTPs and private estates added to
the list of institutions covered by manpower study. Therefore, international manpower specialis t
whose services originally 24 manmonths (mm), was expanded to 32 mm. On the other side,
HRD/M international specialist whose length of services was originally 36 mm for some
considerations it was reduced to 35 mm, while in the meantime project gained HRD/M domestic;
consultant for 6 mm. Combination of the two consultants were considered to be beneficial
particularly in developing HRD-related manual.
3.7.  In terms of length of services rendered by consultant for LPP, from the total number of-
services point of view, it was exactly similar. However, some modifications were made related
to international consultant services into 48 mm which originally was 32 mm, and to domestic
consultant services into 26 mm which originally was 32 mm.
3.8.  Even though Managing Board which consisted of the DGE management and concerned
agencies, i.e., Bappenas, AAET, was not formally established as stated in the SAR, the project
always discussed, consulted and synchronized activities with the policies of the DGE and
concerned agencies. These were reflected from modified programs which were adjusted towards
result of discussion.
3.9.  Fellowship program provided by TCHRDP covering 37 people was originally broken
down into: DGE (15 masters); LPP (7 masters and 3 doctorates); AAET (7 masters); and
Secretariat General of MoA (6 masters). After discussions among the parties involved, allotment
was changed into : DGE ( 15 masters and I doctorate); LPP (7 masters and 2 doctorates); AAET
(8 masters); and Secretariat General of MoA ( 5 masters). Most of field of studies taken by the
fellows were relevant to the beneficiary agencies' needs, particularly for those from LPP and
AAET. Only few fellows from DGE and Secretariat General of MoA changed their subject
matter because they encountered difficulties to meet the requirements set up by the implementing
universities. All of the master fellows completed their studies on time, even some of them
completed their programs ahead of schedule and they already returned to their home agencies.
For doctorate program, from three candidates, one completed, one is in the process of finishing
his dissertation, and the last one is not successful.
3.10. Because of government rules and regulations, it was difficult to the DGE to provide
additional remuneration or Jacilities immediately after the returnees were settle back to their
offices. They have to show their capability and loyalty before the DGE promoted them.
Meanwhile, in encouraging the returnees, the DGE management assigns them to do a special task



- 43 -                      Appendix B
for strengthening structural units or projects. By doing those tasks the returnees were tested their
capability of work. So far, up to the end of December 1995, some returnees from the four
agencies (DGE, AAET, LPP and Secretariat General of MoA) had obtained promotions either
inside or outside their previous agencies.
3.11. In performing the fellowship program, some firms were invited to assist project during
the preparation and implementation of the program such as selecting universities which fitted
requirements of benefiting agencies, the capability of the fellows; taking care, assisting and
monitoring fellows.
3.12. To improve the capability of ISTCs in implementing training especially for the tree crops
subsector, the project provided several activities for ISTC staff, among others, ToT- for 60
commodity specialists and fellowship program for 8 (eight) staff, one of them came from AAET.
While all of ISTC trained staff returned to their own offices and have been involved in tree crops
training, staff from AAET was promoted to the Center for Extension Service under the
Secretariat General of MOA.
3.13. To improve LPP, the only training center specializing in tree crops field, the project
provided several programs for its staff, namely, fellowship program, in country and abroad study
tours, and ToT. The improving capability of LPP staff have been proved to be beneficial to cater
training for tree crops sub sector thereafter.
3.14. Course materials for Financial Management Course (FMC) prepared by LPP have gone
through some revision in order to meet the needs of PTPs and private estates.  In the
implementation, some problems have been emerged attributing to less satisfactory of training
result, such as, incomplete software for doing computer based case studies, and some of the
participant qualification did not meet the requirement.
3.15. TCHRDP provided programs to improve DGE capacity through short-term, long-term,
in-house training and other local training programs. However, some changes have been made
during the mid-term mission of the WB to accommodate DGE new policies in achieving its
objective. The revision encompassed field of target group of training, allotment of people should
be trained, and addition of areas should be covered by the project.
IV.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVE
4.1.  The project substantially has achieved most of its objective to strengthen the capacity of
the DGE in managing and developing its human resources for which eventually it would increase
the productivity of tree crops subsector.
4.2.  With regards to training components of the project, TCHRDP provided for DGE staff
with 15 masters, I doctorate (overseas long term study), 60 persons participating in overseas



- 44 -                      Appendix B
short-term study and 38 out of 40 people attending in-house management training. In addition,
289 DGE and Disbun staff undertook HRD workshops.
4.3.  Another project component which was the improvement training delivery capacity for
LPP and AAET. The implementation was successful covering fellowship program for 1
doctorate, 6 masters, 12 persons participating in overseas short term study and 11 people
attending in-country study visit. While for AAET the programs were 8 master degrees and 44
commodity training specialists.
4.4.  Secretariat General of MoA also gained 5 master programs through TCHRDP in building
capacity for administration development.
4.5.  Local training component designed to improve knowledge and skills for Disbun staff,
PTP, Private estate staff, and farmer leader was conducted satisfactorily. The total number of
Disbun staff trained for managerial administrative and technical aspects were 11,656 people.
Training program for PTP and Private estate staff focusing on financial management was
attended by 235 trainees, while technical training for assistant and mandor kebun of private
estate were 93 trainees.
4.6.  A number of 24,614 out of 25,557 farmer leaders was trained on tree crop production,
harvesting, marketing, farmers group Organization and cooperative aspects. In the efforts to run
a training effectively, the project has provided training modules and flipcharts totally of 125 and
20 titles respectively. An evaluation of the use of flipchart as training aid were found very
successful in accelerating the process of transferring technology.
4.7.  So far, farmer leader training, was beneficial for both trainees themselves and their
members as well. A survey done by the project showed that knowledge and skill of the trained
farmer leaders have been improved, particularly in the following aspects: application of
weeding, fertilizing, plant protection and harvesting. Such technology then has been transferred
to their group members through field discussion or farmer group meeting or any other
opportunities. In general, farmers have been mastering tree crops husbandry technology both
theoretically and practically will accelerate the increase of production thereafter.
4.8.  After the project termination, the total amount of expenditures was US$ 17,000,188.22
which was broken down into 5 categories as follows (as of July 1996)
- consultant            US    $3,518,533.98
- overseas fellowship   US    $2,785,889.91
- training of trainers  US      $739,553.64
- local training        US    $7,804,364.07
- equipment, vehicles
and journals           US    $2,149,176.98



- 45 -                      Appendix B
Therefore, US$ 1,399,811.78 has been canceled from the total loan.
V. PROJECT SUSTAINABIILITV
5.1.  After the loan terminated, the function of HRD/M has to be sustained in the DGE. DGE
realizes that the activities related to HRD/M should rest on a unit in the DGE structure.
However, it is not easy to create a new unit for accommodating this function within the DGE
organization, because it will take a long process and discussion involving many concerned
agencies, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of State for Administrative Reform
(MENPAN). Considering that HRD activities should run continuously, before the concept of
HRM unit can be materialized, the GOI has been continuing the implementation of the project
using government budget and other possible budget which will be available. For the time being,
the project is concentrating on training and gradually it will also cover other functions in HRD
such as Organization Development, and Career Development without breaking the existing rules
and regulations.
5.2.  Furthermore, the manual guidelines and procedures developed by TCHRDP, were proved
to be beneficial not only to the TCHRDP but also to other projects in designing their training
activities.
5.3.  In implementing field of study for fellowship program PIU-HRD assisted the staff in
determining field of study based on the competencies needed by the DGE and the competencies
mastered by those staff.
5.4.  Farmer leader training was considered beneficial denoted by the tendency of increasing
productivity of the farmers. A survey on effect of training done by the project, indicated that
farmers groups whose farmer leaders had been trained are doing well in running their plantation.
Based on this performance, some of the training material has been utilized by other project
within the DGE in conducting similar training.
5.5.  The participants of TOT on tree crops commodities, covering coconut, coffee and rubber
were 44 people coming from ISTCs and have been involved in any tree crops training.
5.6.  The role of ADOs was proved to be essential particularly after the NES/PIR project
converted. They function as a bridge for several agencies that involved in development of
NES/PIR. Three extension workers for each ADO have been recruited to support their tasks. In
order to keep up their skills and knowledge, the DGE has been providing training or seminars
for them at least once a year.
5.7.  Training conducted for Echelon II DGE and Disbuns, Echelon III DGE and Disbuns or
equal level to that positions on HRD concept has given the understanding of HRD concept. It



- 46 -                       Appendix B
was realized that the whole concepts is not easy to implement at once, therefore DGE has
implemented gradually.
5.8.  There is also an increase of DGE capacity in managing HRD, improvement in lhe
capacity of training, and increase of knowledge and skills of staff and farmer leaders. Sirce
TCHRDP loan has been terminated on December 31, 1995, in FY 1996/1997 HRD activities will
be carried out by government budget. PIU-HRD is assigned for assisting other projects in
designing their training, particularly training on managerial and overseas
training.
5.9.  Quantitatively, economic benefit of the project is difficult to describe, since the result of
training is intangible. However, cost effective has been achieved, especially DGE has been able
to manage and develop its human resource properly that lead them more proactive. As impact of
the project, it increased the DGE staff capacity included farmer leaders.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.1.  In general supervision missions conducted during the implementation of the project, have
been satisfactory. In some cases, it found difficult to convince the WB with the annual work
plan proposed by the project. However, the WB usually could agreed and support it if it were
felt to be important to achieve the project objective. In addition, direct communications to the
WB through Washington office and RSI-Jakarta were very helpful in solving any problem
related to the project implementation.
6.2.  To keep the sustainability of the HRD/M activities, the WB support still be needed.
Thereby, more understanding about the situation and culture of Indonesia is necessary for the
WB staff.
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.1.  In the first year of the project implementation, there were some constraints faced by the
project. However, through serious effort done by the manager and project staff in cooperatien
with all concerned agencies, the implementation can be managed smoothly since the second year
and thereafter even though a lot of change took place, such as turning over of project staff and
policy changes.
VIII. LESSON LEARNED
8.1.   TCHRDP was a project designed mostly dealing with training. The DGE has been
realized that training is an intervention used in an organization in which they find that any staif



-47-                        Appendix B
got shortfalls in certain competencies needed to run their job. By training, their performance will
increase and eventually the organization will run properly. Consequently, job description should
be clear. In addition to that, training will not be attractive to the participants unless it links with
rewards. Therefore, HRD functions should cover: Organization Development (OD), Career
Development (CD), and Training run simultaneously.
8.2.   To work on training linked with organizations development and career development will
take times, since it have been formulated by national level policies on organization and career for
public service organization. Therefore, the TCHRDP should not run for only certain period of
project.
8.3.   Based on sequence of activities the project should run, a manpower planning consultant
should be recruited prior to a training consultant, so it would make him possible to bring the
result of the previous studies in which the need of training would be identified.
8.4.   Training will not be able to run properly without any support from all level of
management, particularly, top level management.
8.5.   Because of time period between the project preparation and implementation of the
project was very long while some changes took place, so it led to inconsistency of program.
IX.   OPERATIONAL PLAN
9.1.   Operational Plan after project completion was agreed by GOI and the Bank. Since April
1996, the activities of HRD which is a continuous process at the DGE has been funded by local
or GOI budget.
9.2.   The PIU of HRD is acting as a unit which will support the DGE in running the
implementation of the followings: Organization Development (OD), Career Development (CD)
and Training and Development (T&D) within tree crops subsector. The PIU also provides some
guidance to other projects within the DGE in identifying trainee target group, undertaking
training need assessment (TNA), developing curricula, course materials and monitoring
implementation of training as well as post evaluation of training.
9.3.   In addition, PIU will continue to implement HRD seminars and workshops for those of
Echelon 1 1, III and IV.
9.4.   An institutional study is planning to be implemented in the DGE to explore the suitable
place of HRD function in the DGE. The study would involve various units and concerned
agencies, i.e., the Secretariat General of MOA, AAET, and Ministry of State for Administrative
Reform.



- 48 -                       Appendix B
9.5.   Career development that is one of motivators to one in doing his job, is the responsibility
of individual and Organization. In addition to the existing system of performance appraisal, the
DGE will develop an instrument which will facilitate manager in appraising the performance of
DGE staff. However, this concept will need further discussion and be reviewed before it tested.
9.6.   To prevent projects under the DGE from doing overlap training, the process of training
management will be followed covering 4 stages: i.e., preparation, planning, implementation and
evaluation as long as possible. Those activities mentioned will be coordinated with other
projects and for the implementation will involve either DGE staff or Disbun staff. With respect
of managerial training in some ways are similar, however, the emphasis of subject matters will
differentiate one to another, e.g. DGE staff training will stress on strategic management and
Disbun staff training will on tactical planning.
9.7.   In order to support HRD activities implementation, data and information on the tree
crops sub sector human resource will be made available through establishment of Human
Resource Information System (HRIS), in which the activities the PIU will be doing for the
establishment comprises the planning, collecting, identification and analyzing of data and
information. Furthermore, the analyzed data information will be utilized for HR data base, HR
system development, and followed by try out. The system will be part of the existing Personnel
Information System (SIMPEG DEPTAN).



- 49-                    Appendix B
OPERATIONAL PLAN
AFTER PROJECT COMPLETION
I.    INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
01.   Loan No. 2992-IND for Tree Crops Human Resource Development Project (TCHRDP)
was terminated on December 31, 1995 after it has obtained one-year extension period. The
project was designed to enhance the capacity of DGE in managing and developing Human
Resource within tree crops subsector, hence, DGE objectives, particularly, improvement of tree
crops productivity could be accomplished. The activities that the project focused has been on
HRD functions such as Organization Development (OD), Career Development (CD) and,
particularly Training and Development.
02.   Considering that HRD activities is a continuous process, it is imperative for the DGE to
sustain the existence of PIU of HRD with its activities through local/GoI budget.
03.  In order to avoid redundancy among projects within DGE in implementing training
program, for the future tasks of PIU of HRD, among others, will coordinate training within DGE
sub sector.
04. In accordance with the development and long-term needs, availability of HRD unit that will
take care OD, CD and T&D is necessary. However, the unit has not yet been established, and
the PIU of HRD will be utilized and be function as the unit.
II.    MANAGEMENT ASPECT
05.     As mentioned above the PIU of HRD which is funded by Gol budget is acting as the
unit coordinating all technical training and managing all managerial training conducted by
projects under DGE either local or foreign assisted projects. It also will continue to implement
HRD seminars and workshops.
06.     HRD training consisting of organization development (OD), career development (CD)
and training and development (T&D) have been implemented both at the head office and
provincial level in which the objective of the training was to build similar perception on HRD
concept within estate crops subsector. Considering that the managers are the ones who
responsible for managing and developing their staff, the participants of the HRD seminars will be
those of Echelon II & III, and eventually those of Echelon IV. The seminars will be conducted
every year.



- 50 -                        Appendix B
07.  To convince that the HRD activities will be performed professionally, the establishment of
a unit which will handle development matters will be imperative. In conjunction with this,
institutional study in the DGE to explore where the functions of HRD will be put is necessary to
implement. The study would involve various units and concerned agencies, i.e.,, the Secretariat
General of MOA, Agency for Agricultural Education and Training of MOA, Ministry of State for
Administrative Reform (MENPAN) office.
08.   Career development which is known as one of motivators to one in doing his/her job, is
the responsible of individual and organization. Without neglecting the rules and regulations
available at the moment, DGE will develop instruments for appraising performance of its staff
and after that it will work on try out of this instrument at a certain unit. The result will be
reviewed and after being revised, it will be implemented widely in the DGE. The final result will
be conveyed to the office of the Ministry of State for Administrative Reform through the
Ministry of Agriculture to have it reviewed for further implementation. HRIS is needed to
support these activities.
09.  Implementation of training management properly will prevent projects under DGE from
doing redundant training, in which it will be started by undertaking TNA for staff and farmers,
and the result of the TNA will be used for developing training program in the tree crops
subsector. Furthermore, training evaluation consisting of on going evaluation and impact
evaluation will be implemented. Those activities mentioned will be coordinated with other
projects and for the implementation will involve either DGE staff or Disbun staff. With respect
of managerial training for tree crops subsector, the PIU will manage, in some ways are similar,
however subject matters emphasis will differentiate one to another, e.g., DGE staff training will
stress on strategic management and Disbun staff training will stress on tactical planning.
10.  In order to support HRD activities implementation, data and information on the tree crops
subsector human resource will be made available through establishment of Human Resource
Information System (HRIS), in which the activities the PIU will be doing for the establishment
comprises the planning, collecting, identification and analyzing of data and information.
Furthermore, the analyzed data and information will be utilized for HR data and information.
Furthermore, the analyzed data and information will be utilized for HR data base HR system
development, and followed by try out. The system will be part of the existing Personnel
Information System (SIMPEGDEPTAN).



- Si-
Appendix B
Attachment
TRAINING NEEDED AT THE DGE
HEAD OFFICE AND DISBUNS LEVEL
I. Managerial Training
1.    Management information System
2.    Human Resource Management
3.    Job Analysis
4.    Organization Culture
5.    Planning
6.    Strategic Management
7.    Agribusiness/Agroindustry
8.    Public
II. Technical Training
1.    Statistics
2.    Computer
3.    Negotiation skill
4.    Cultivation  (seed, agronomy, plant protection, soil and
climatology)
5.    Agricultural technology (mechanization biotechnology)
6.    Environment
7.    Farm management (investment, credit, mapping)
8.    Processing and marketing (market research, standardization and
processing)
9.    Management of Extension
III.Administrative and Financial Training
1.    Finance
2.    Inventory
3.    Correspondence
4.    Bibliography
5.    Legislation
6.    Administrative
7.    Personnel.
8.    Archives/files management






IBRD 28152
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION OF DISBUN AND PMU STAFF TRAINING                   (E    PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
*     DOGE TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT TRAINING                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
A     AAETE: TRAINING OF TREECROP TRANERS                                PROVINCE EOUNDARCES
*     LPP: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT TRAINING, STAFF UPGRADING        -  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
w                         I                                                   I    '                      /;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  I                                               1
9\'.LTHAILAND
=    PHILIPPINES
3    iRUNEI.A~      t           .                                   /NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
MALAYSIA ,v
5 12    -\xX' + i ~~ MALAYSIA
_r     , C::INGAPORE                                                      17                                      110,
--lN         . l UW ~  \_                                          '             i-|
_               5v   T C) 1iUATER iELTA                                                                                                                     HERAo 1--i I      \-                        \    
D~~~~~~~~2  1.\                            A       "CEH                                      Son 1,ir o
~1dC1 KAIANA rE'A                                                   I<AL          ANTAd_g                                                                                                                                              >
s  T       1R                                     14            I                                         1
DEIJAUANTAN lIMU                                             11 3_  23                                                                                                                                                              J wooo      oC  p ir.r e
IAWAESAAT    EARAT                                                                                                  / .
IAWAlTENGAM    UR        7                         .6                                                                                                                                                              I .-    IAN
-  I GGTAETA                                                                                                          .0                    ,7K
JAWA TIMUR             k0RAiV.Th 2                                                                 K                                                             _ 2                            AUS T F A L I A       , A
seNGKIJLU
SUM'ATRRA SELT1                          61I 
SUMATERA BAAIT I                                JAKARTA                                                  UIAflBPOOd0IIBCE                                                                                                k (  I  2
SUMATEIRAUTARAAA                                                                                                          A
KAJJMAAJAN BAEAT                                                                                                                              z~r. o
KALWATAN TENGAHI
KALIMIANTAN SELATAN
KAUIANJTAN TIMUR                                            '3              Snby                                                             ~                                                            n
SCJLAWESI TENGAH
SUULAWESI SELTANA 
22NUSA TENGGARA BAAT                                                                               (>, ' A                                              I,W ORSRAIA1
NUSA TENGGARA TIAMUE                                                                                                 Kl~I\             Rp.N,
IRIN JATA                                       Th.od,,0 ob Aoccloo04o    ;Zen ,nf-,In G-
nARGEIMUR      eOonnh.s,O  onti,l nI. 0  lh  ol o1Ooo
1Z'02'1996       isSES                          3T  









I MAG I NG
Report No:      16148
Type: ICR



