Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 6396-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 15, 1988
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonmnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1988)
Currency Unit   Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       = Rp 1,660
Rp 1 million = US$602
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AAETE         -    Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
IARD          -    Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAPPENAS      -    National Development Planning Agency
BIMAS         -    Mass Agricultural Intensification Program
DISBUN        -    Provincial Offices of Estate Crops
DCE           -    Directorate General of Estates
FAO           -    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
coI           -    Government of Indonesia
HRD           -    Human Resource Development
ISTC          -    In-service Training Center
KIK           -    Small Scale Enterprise Investment Credit
LPP           -    Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan (Estates Training Institute)
MOA           -    Ministry of Agriculture
NATI          -    National Agricultural Training Institute
NES           -    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project (Externally
funded)
PIR           -    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project (GOI financed)
PIU           -    Project Implementation Unit
PMUs          -    Project Management Units of GOI Scheme to assist
smallholders
PTP           -    Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan (State-owned Limited
Liability Estate Company)
REPELITA      -    National Five-year Development Plar. (Repelita IV 1984-89)
SECDP         -    Smallholder Estate Crops Developmeit Project (SECDP)
SCDP          -    Smallholder Coconut Development Project
SRDP          -    Smallholder Rubber Development Proj'et
TCHRD         -    Tree Crops Human Resource Development Project
TEAM KHUSUS   -    Special team in DGE for estate projects



-   -                        FOR OiCIL4 USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY.*           ......................... iv-vii
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Sectoral Background. ................. . *9**4**..... ... ........     1
B. Sector Institutions Concerned with Tree Crops Human
Resource Development........... ....... .. ........ . .... .....   5
C. Subsectoral Human P.esource Capacity Assessment................        7
D. Government Human Resource Development Strategy in
the 9............................................... .......       9
E. The Bank's Human Resource Development Role and Strategy
in the Subsector*........ ..................... ............      10
II   THE PROJECT..............................- ...         . .            12
A. Project Objectives and Scope..................................        12
B. Project Components...................... .......... ....... ...       13
C. Strengthening the Directorate General of Estates..............        14
D. Improvement of Training Delivery Capacity in the
E. Improvement of Subsectoral Productivity: Local
Training Programs................................................  19
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING         ............... .....             25
A. Project Costs.................................................        25
B* Financing Plan...... ....... .....  ................... ..........    28
C * Procurements..................................................       29
D. Disbursements ..................................                      30
E. Reporting and Audit                     .....                         31
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION, AND MANAGEMENT ..........       32
V.BENEFITS3AND RISKS
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................     34
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in February 1986 comprising C. Valdivieso (economist, mission leader),
C. Maguire (agricultural trainer), C. Shearing (tree cro0s specialist), and
M. Masuda (operations assistant); and an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in May/June 1986 comprising C. Maguire (agricultural trainer, mission
leader), C. Valdivieso (economist), C. Shearing (tree crops specialist), and
R. Neilson (manpower specialist, consultant). A post appraisal mission was
conducted in December 1987 by C. Maguire (agricultural trainer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theiroffcialdutieLItscontents may not otherwise bedisclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN REPORT
Table 1:  Summary of Project Costs by Component.....................        27
Table 2:  Proposed Financing Plan...................................        28
Table 3:  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category...............        30
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education indicators
2.   Directorate General of Estates
Chart 1: Organization Structure of Directorate General of Estates
Chart 2: Organization Structure of Directorates of DGE
Chart 3: Organization Structure of Standard Project Management Unit
Chart 4: Example of a PTP Organization Structure
3.  Subsector Training Needs
Table 1: Existing Staff of DGE, DISBUN, PMUs, PTPs and Private Estates
Table 2:      Total Personnel Requirements by the End of Repelita V - DCE,
DISBUN, PMUs, PTPs and Private Estates
Table 3: Capacity of Training Facilities in Fourteen Project Provinces
Table 4: ISTCs in Project Pro-inces
Table 5: Classification of Training by Commodity and Agency
4.   Technical Assistance Programs
Table 1: Summary of Consultant Services by Component and Year
Table 2: Summary of Overseas Fellowships by Component and Year
Table 3: Summary of Local Training Programs by Year
5.   Terms of Reference
Human Resource Development management specialist
Manpower planning and development specialist
Training needs assessment and training program plannivg specialist
Training program management specialist
Financial management training specialist
Financial management needs analysis and course design specialist
Financial management needs analysis and course design specialist
(domestic)
Financial management training materials preparation specialist
Management training for DCE headquarters staff
PMU management training component
Management information system design and implementation specialist
Institutional development/training advisor
6.   Project Cost Estimates
Table 1:  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 2: Project Costs by Category and Component
Table 3: Project Expenditure by Component and Year (including contingencies)



- iii -
Table 4: Project Expenditure by Category and Year (including contingencies)
Table 5: Project Expenditure by Component and Year (base costs)
Table 6: Project Expenditure by Category and Year (base costs)
Table 7: Breakdown of Project Costs by Category
Table 8: Costs of Training of Trainers Program
Table 9: Uait Costs of Local Training
7.   Farmer Leader Training
8.   Implementation Schedule
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Monitoring Indicators
11.  Smallholder .oconut, Rubber and Coffee Production Constraints, Extension
Needs, and Assessment of Returns to Training and Extension
12. Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
CHART
1.   Orgarizational Structure
MAPs IBRD No. 2019i.



- iv -
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:         US$18.4 million equivalent
Terms:          Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:  The main objective of the project is to improve productivity
in the tree crops subsector, by enhancing manpower management
capability and building the capacity of the Directorate
General of Estates (DGE) to develop its human resources. The
proposed-project would include financing for consultant
services, overseas fellowships, local training, training of
trainers, farmer leader training, instructional equipment and
materials, and incremental operating costs to: (a) strengthen
the capacity of the DGE to plan, coordinate, and monitor man-
power and training for estate crops personnel by establishing
Human Resource Development (HRD) capacity within the DCxE
(b) improve managerial and technical support for field staff
and smallholders by providing management training and overseas
fellowships for selected DGE staff and by funding institu-
tional studies; (c) strengthen the capacity of institutions
involved in subsectoral training, by training about 50
trainers specializing in in-service training of tree crop
subsector staff; (d) improve the productive capacity of the
subsector by training staff supporting the production of
selected export crops in 14 provinces; (e) increase the
effectiveness of farmers groups by providing training for
farmer leaders; and (f) build capacity for administering
manp,wer development in the Secretariat General of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
Benefits and    The main benefits would be: (a) increased capacity of the DCW
Risks:        to manage human resource planning and development; (b) more
effective and increased training capacity at the sectoral
training institutions; (c) more effective staff in the public
sector estates (PTPs); (d) improved managerial and technical
backstopping of DCE field staff; (e) more effective support
for rubber, coconut and coffee smallholders; and (f) increased
production of key export crops by smallholders as a result of
more effective transmission of improved husbandry techniques
by extension staff to farmers groups led by well trained group
leaders. There are no major risks associated with the



project, although it could face some budgetary and organiza-
tional constraints.  These risks have been carefully evaluated
and addressed in the project design.  No negative environmen-
tal impact is foreseen as most of the extension advice would
focus on low cost improvements on land already under tree
crops rather than on high input usage.
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
…---- US$ million
Strengthening Directorate General
of Estates (DGE)
Human Resource Development/PIU                         0.8      1.6       2.4
Staff Development Program                              0.1      0.7       0.8
Management Information Systems Study                   0.0      0.2       0.2
Improvement of Training Delivery Capacity
in the Subsector
AAETE                                                  1.6      1.2       2.8
LPP                                                    0.9      2.1       3.0
MOA, Secretariat General                               0.1      0.2       0.3
Improvement of Sctoral Productivity--Local Training
Project Management Units                               5.5      0.6       6.1
DISBUN                                                 0.4      0.1       0.5
PTPs                                                   0.3      0.0       0.3
Private Estates                                        0.2      0.0       0.2
Farmer Leaders                                         4.2      0.8       5.0
Base Cost                                          14.1      7.5      21.6
Physical contingencies                                 1.5      0.7       2.2
Price contingencies                                    2.3      0.5       2.8
Total Project Cost /a                              17.9      8.7      26.6
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                   9.7      8.7      18.4
Government                                             8.2      0.0       8.2
Total                                              17.9      8.7      26.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                               1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
__ _US$ million_
Annual                               0.4   1.2   2.8   4.0   4.4   4.4   1.2
Cumulative                           0.4   1.6   4.4   8.4  12.8  17.2  18.4
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
/a Includes about US$0.5 million equivalent in duties and taxes.



INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I* SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.1       Background and Performance.  Agriculture remains a key eactor of the
Indonesian economy, contributing about one-fourth of GDP and providing employ-
ment to 55% of the labor force. The sector has an important role in non-oil
merchandise trade, with major agricultural exports accounting for 33% of the
value of non-oil exports, and food for 7% of imports. Of the country's
cropped area of 24 million ha, about 8 million ha are under perennial crops,
9 million ha are in dryland farms, and 7 million ha in wetlands suitable for
rice cultivation. Food crops account for 63% of agricultural GDP, with rice
alone accounting for a 30% share in 1985. Faru- holdings are predominantly
small-34% of all household lots are less than 0.25 ha, and about 29% are
between 0.25 and 0.5 ha.
1.2       Since 1969, agricultural growth has averaged about 4% p.a. and
outpaced population growth by a significant margin. Rice output, which has
grown at 5% p.a. since 1969 (6.3% p.a. since 1975), has made a solid contribu-
tion to the sector's impressive performance. Other food crops (particularly
corn) and cash crops (such as palm oil and spices) have also shown impressive
growth and added to the significant gains registered in rural welfare in the
past several years. This impressive performance in agriculture can be
attributed to three basic sets of policies: (a) sound macro-economic manage-
ment through a responsive and flexible exchange rate policy and controlled
inflation; (b) successful rice intensification programs (particularly in Java)
supported by subsidies for fertilizers, insecticides and credit, research on
high yielding varieties, and investment in irrigation and rural infrastruc-
ture; and (c) an increased focus on tree crop development as a major economic
activity off-Java.
1.3       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agriculture
sector during Repelita IV (1984-89) are to: (a) increase production to meet
domestic requirements for food while meeting the needs of industry and expand-
ing agricultural exports; (b) increase farmers' incomes and generate employ-
ment; (c) promote a more balanced distribution of economic opportunities,
regional development and land settlement through transmigration; and (d) con-
tribute to the health and better nutritional status of the population.
1.4       Sector Issues and Challenges.  The sector is in a period of transi-
tion, partly as a result of the normal development process, but also due to a
need to adjust to recent developments, including volatile prices for primary
commodities, constraints on the resource tvailability for public sector sup-
port, and the possibility that rice may no longer provide the same momentum of
growth as in the past. Thus the strategies of development need to change.
These strategies include inter alia input subsidies on a scale which are



- 2 -
unsustainable over a continued period of time, direct administration of
production targets which may not lead to development of production systems
based on the relative profitability of alternative crops, large-scale con-
struction of new irrigation infrastructure with inadequate attention to
operations and maintenance of existing facilities, and limited private sector
participation in agricultural mark.-ting and processing which has put excessive
onus of development of the sector on Government. The question facing
Indonesian policy makers is how to sustain growth in the sector through
greater economic efficiency, intensification and diverse patterns of
production. Fortunatel-, relatively low labor costs, and varying agro-
climatic conditions are conducive to addressing this question in a technically
sound and environmentally sustainable manner.
1.5       Employment generation and poverty alleviation are among the coun-
try's most pressing development problems. These are viewed in the context of
the agriculture sector's capacity to absorb labor both in Java and off-Java.
During 1980-85, employment in agriculture in Java grew at 0.9% p.a., contr;bu-
ting about 24% of total employment growth in Java. Employment in agriculture
off-Java grew at 3.1% p.a., contributing nearly 61% of total employment growth
in the Outer Islands. There have been fewer opportunities for nonagricultural
employment in the Outer Islands, with 65 million people (40% of population)
and only 20X of medium- and large-scale industries, which contributed only 6X
of employment growth during the 1980-85 period. Even the trade/transport
sector contributed only about 21% of employment growth in the Outer Islands
during this period compared to 49% in Java. With the increase in rural labor
force in the Outer Islands estimated to be about 3% p.a. during 1985-90
(compared to 0.7% p.a. in Java) and 2.2Z p.a. during 1990-95 (compared to 0.6%
p.a. in Java), the agriculture sector will continue to face the challenge of
generating productive employment opportunities (a challenge which is
exacerbated by a limited amount of land agronomically suitable for food
crops). Labor absorption will also remain a major challenge in Java, where
virtually all economically irrigable areas are already under irrigation and
planted with high-yielding rice varieties. Therefore, throughout Indonesia,
food crops can be expected to absorb only limited amounts of additional labor,
so the expansion of agricultural lands through exploitation of high-value tree
crops may be the only effective means of generating growth and employment on a
large scale in the Outer Islands.
1.6       Some 34% of the population (41% of rural population) live below the
absolute poverty level. Although Java had, in 1984, the highest concentration
of poverty, poverty in the Outer Islands was also high at 31%. Moreover, the
gap in poverty incidence between Java and the Outer Islands has been narrowing
as poverty has worsened in rural areas of the Outer Islands. Whereas rural
Java's poorest 40% experienced an increase in per capita consumption of 1.9Z
p.a. during 1980-84, the consumption of the poorest 40% in rural Outer Islands
decreased at an annual rate of 1.6%. In 1984, about 4.3 million people in
rural areas (3.6% of the rural population in Indonesia) had per capita expend-
iture levels that were insufficient to adequately meet the food demand. Of
this group, about 85% live in the Outer Islands.



- 3 -
1.7       In summary, the challenges faced by the agriculture sector are to:
(a) achieve sustained growth throrgh increased efficiency and competitiveness;
(b) maintain the productivity of existing assets through improved operation
and maintenance of rural infrastructure and improved management and conserva-
tion of natural resources; (c) improve the policy environment for greater
private sector participation in agricultural marketing and processing; and
(d) generate employment opIportunities particularly in the Outer Islands (where
the growth of labor force is higher and nonagricultural opportunities more
limited), thus allowing the rural poor to share the benefits of growth.
The Tree Crop Subsector
1.8       Background.  Rubber, oil palm and coconuts together occupy about 5.5
million hectares, or over 201 of the cropped area in Indonesia. They provide
employment and cash income for some 15% of tb- labor force, account for 16% of
agricultural GDP and 20% of non-oil/LNG export earnings, and provide a base of
growing importance for the development of related processing and manufacturing
industries. Smallholders predominate in the cultivation of rubber and
coconuts, and oil pqlm is largely grown on public and private estates,
although smallholder production is increasing.
1.9       Prospects.  Significant land resources exist in the Outer Islands,
which can be utilized in a technically sound and environmentally sustainable
manner to generate growth and employment opportunities. The climate and soil
conditions on these islands provide a strong natural advantage for the
production of tree crops. It is estimated that the annual return to one
hectare of land under optimal shifting cultivation is about $120, while under
low-input food crops it is about $450, and systems with block-planted rubber
have returns to land as high as $1,lO/ha. While timber production by a good
stand of natural forest can generate high returns as well, tree crops are
planted primarily in areas formerly occupied by secondary forests, brush and
run-down plantations. Returns to household labor and capital are also much
higher in the case of tree crops compared to food crop cultivation on similar
soils.
1.10      Compared to other sectors of the economy, such as manufacturing,
tree crop development is a more cost-effective means of generating employment
and raising rural incomes in the Outer Islands: the cost per job created in
tree crops is US$3-4,000 compared to an estimated US$10-20,000 per job in
industry. Tree crops are important in the economy of the Outer Islands where
growth in the labor force is high (para 1.5) and significant poverty exists
(para. 1.6), nonagricultural activities are limited, and there are virtually
no cash crop alternatives that can be developed efficien-.y on an environ-
mentally sustainable basis and on a large enough scale to have a major im-
pact. During Repelita III (1979-84) some 540,000 ha of rubber, oil palm and
coconuts were planted or replanted under Government programs, creating
approximately 1 millior jobs, equivalent to almost 20% of all new jobs in the
Outer Islands during the period. A further 500,000-600,000 ha are being
planted during Repelita IV (1984-89). These planting programs have so far
directly benefited some 400,000 smallholder families (or about 2,000,000
people), up to 801 of whom were landless transmigrants from the target poverty
group in Java and Bali.



- 4 -
1.11      At current and projected commodity prices, production of rubber and
palm oil is economically viable. Indonesia, as a major producer of crude palm
oil (1.4 million tons p.a.) and rubber (1.1 million tons p.a.), enjoys a
competitive cost advantage over other large producing countries due to its
favorable agro-climatic conditions and low average wage rates. Even with
fairly conservative assessments of yield potential, rubber production costs
are significantly lower than projected world market prices. More important,
the costs of producing palm oil in Southeast Asia, including Indonesia, are
substantially lower than those of any other source of traded edible oil--less
than one-third the production costs of rape and sunflower oils, for example.
Since the costs of soybean production are attributable to soymeal as well as
soybean oil, the future price competition of soybean oil will depend to a
large extent on the strength of world meal demand. However, analysis of world
supply and demand prospects for all vegetable oils and oil meals for the years
ahead indicates rising oil values with relatively tighter oil supplies. Due
to substantially lower production costs, palm oil will clearly continue to be
the most profitable edible oil commodity in the years ahead, with world market
prices well above Indonesia's production costs. Price increases in real
terms, projected by 2000 of 12% for rubber and 60% for crude palm oil over the
estimated 1987 average price, provide more than adequate incentives for
continued production increases in Indonesia.
1.12      Rubber and oil palm together cover 3.2 million ha and account for
some 27% of agricultural export earnings (averaging US$1.1 billion annually
during 1979-85). During 1984/85, while about 70% of Indonesia's export of
rubber was to the USA and Singapore, only about 2% of the palm oil exports
were to the USA, with Netherlands accounting for the largest share of
Indonesia's palm oil exports, and the shares of India and Pakistan increasing.
Between 1979 and 1986, rubber production grew only 2% annually. This rela-
tively low growth rate in comparison with the rest of the agricultural sector
was caused by declining yields from senile trees, and the long immature period
of recently planted trees. However, the next few years should see a signifi-
cant increase in the annual growth rate, to 4%, due to an increase in total
area from 2.4 million to 2.7 million ha between 1979 and 1986, mostly on
smallholdings using improved planting material. Over 90% of rubber (mostly
crumb and ribbed sheet) is exported. While the domestic demand for rubber is
expected to double from 60,000 tons in 1985 to 120,000 tons by 1995, exports
of rubber should grow from 1.0 million to 1.4 million tons by 1995. This
growth rate of 3.4% per year is higher than the estimated growth in world
demand of 2.3% as Indonesia is expected to increase its world market share in
the face of near static production by Malaysia, the market leader. This
growth, however, will be partially dependent on Indonesian rubber producers
keeping pace with increasingly demanding end-user requirements.
1.13      Palm oil production grew at 12% annually between 1979 and 1986 as
the total area under palm oil almost doubled from 260,000 to 500,000 ha,
mostly on public estates.  There has been a rapid increase in domestic dema:s
in recent years (28% p.a. between 1970 and 1984) due to growth in population
and per capita income, aided by a high income elasticity of demand for edible
oil products and stagnant supplies of coconut oil. The uses of palm oil are
also widening further due to technological developmenta, particularly in the
oleochemicals industry. Domestic demand for crude palm oil currently averages



- 5 -
about 50% of production and is expected to grow by 8% per year, but increased
planting rates should result in production growth of 11% per year, leaving an
increasing surplus for export. Growing demand from developing countries, 11%
per year in Indonesia's primary LDC export markets during 1978-84, should
absorb this surplus and offset market constraints in more developed countries.
1.14      The current restrained outlook for petroleum revenues has further
reinforced the high priority accorded by GOI to tree crops as the key to more
balanced regional development and poverty alleviation, and as a principal
source of growth in employment and non-oil/LNG export earnings. Given the
technical and economic efficiency of tree crop development in the Outer
Islands and the favorable domestic and export market prospects, Government
strategy is to continue and maintain Indonesia's competitive cost advantage by
improving efficiencies in production, processing and marketing, for which
there is still considerable potential, and thereby improving returns to low-
income farmers participating in the subsector. Key elements of this strategy
aimed at increasing output per unit of input include replanting old/senile
trees to improve yields, improving transport and processing facilities to
red-ace losses, and improving the efficiency and financial performance of state
enterprises engaged in the subsector.
1.15      Structure of the Subsector.  Tree crops are cultivated by three
groups: smallholders, Government-owned estate companies (PTPs), and private
estates. Eighty-five percent of rubber is cultivated by smallholders, while
oil palm is grown almost exclusively on estates.  PTPs are legally owned by
the Department of Finance (DOF), but operate as autonomous entities reporting
to the Department of Agriculture. Together, the 26 PTPs have aboat 270.000 ha
of rubber and 160 rubber factories with a capacity of 1,270 tons/day; and
390,000 ha of oil palm and 62 palm oil factories with a capacity of 1,500 tons
FFB/hour. Private rubber and oil palm estates with their own processing
facilities now account for about 50% and 301 of estate-produced rubber and
palm oil, respectively. There are also private rubber processors concentrated
in ports and large cities.
1.16      Government's primary technical support for tree crops comes from the
Directorate General of Estates (DGE) in the Department of Agriculture.
Because of GOI's commitment to using tree crop development as a primary
vehicle for alleviating poverty, especially in rural areas of the Outer
Islands, direct Government support for tree crops has concentrated on small-
holder programs, using two basic approaches. The first involves the formation
of geographically concentrated project management units (PMUs) within DGE
which assist smallholders to plant, replant or rehabilitate their holdings by
supplying extension advice, planting material and fertilizer, and payments for
labor. The second approach involves the use of PTPs to establish block-
planted tree crops for smallholders, often in remote transmigration sites.
The PTPs also operate the processing facilities and nucleus estates adjoining
smallholder areas. Bank-assisted Nucleus Estate and Smallholder (NES) proj-
ects and GOI-financed Perkebunan Inti Rakyat (PIR) projects are examples of
this approach. The Special Team for Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Projects
(Tim Khusus) is the unit within DGE primarily responsible for oversight and
monitoring of implementation of NES/PIR projects.



- 6 -
1.17      Financing for Government-sponsored tree crop programs comes from the
Government budget, Bank Indonesia (BI; the Central Bank), state commercial
banks (particularly Bank Rakyat Indonesia, Bank Ekspor-impor Indonesia, and
Bank Bumi Daya), the PTPs, smallholder sweat equity and external financing. A
major goal of Government's strategy for tree crop development is to move the
financing of the subsector off-budget and onto a more commercial basis involv-
ing banking and private resources.
1.18      Several organizations are involved in the marketing of PTP output.
A Marketing Association representing the PTPs was established in 1984 and
assists them in strategic planning, market research, new product development
and the establishment of marketing and sales offices in Indonesia and over-
seas. It also advises the Minister of Agriculture on policy measures to
improve the marketing of estate crop products. Three Joint Marketing Organi-
zations (JMOs) act as sales agents for the PTPs, especially for exports. The
Rubber Association of Indonesia (Gapkindo) was established in 1971 to provide
marketing assistance to enterprises dealing with rubber, and a similar organi-
zation, the Palm Oil Association of Indonesia (Gapki), was established in
1981.
1.19      Subsector Issues and Challenges.  The strategy of using tree crops
to increase rural employment and non-oilILNG exports has been fundamentally
sound. However, efficient and sustainable growth of the tree crop subsector
is currently constrained by a number of institutional weaknesses, distortions
in the incentives framework, and processing inefficiencies. The high planting
targets have exceeded the management and financial resources of the implement-
ing agencies. Consequently, both quantity and quality targets have fallen
short of expectations. Major constraints have been a shortage of trained man-
power, erratic and declining Government financial support caused by cumbersome
budget mechanisms and falling petroleum prices, and inadequate institutional
coordination among Government agencies. Furthermore, many PTPs are now in
financial difficulty, due to ambitious development programs, recent low commo-
dity prices, and export taxes in earlier years when prices were high.
1.20      Government now has two major groups of challenges:
(a)  To protect past investments by ensuring that existing trees are
properly maintained and harvested; and the raw material from those
trees is efficiently processed.
(b) To promote future planting to take full advantage of Indonesia's
comparative advantage in tree crops.
B. Sector Institutions Concerned with Tree Crops
Human Resource Development
1.21      Directorate General of Estates (para. 1.16 and Annex 2).  The DGE at
headquarters consists of a Secretariat and six Directorates: Program Develop-
ment; Production Development; Rehabilitation and Expansion; Agribusiness
Processing and Marketing; Plant Protection; and Extension. Within DGE, a
special team (Team Khusus) assists in planning and monitoring the
implementation of all Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES/PIR) projects,



- 7 -
both externally and domestically financed. The estate crops service at
provincial level, DISBUN I, and at district (Kabupaten) level, DISBUN II,
handles all matters relating to estate crops development at these levels.
DISBUN staff are under the control of the provincial governor, but DGE
provides technical guidance for their activities.
1.22      There are in all about 27,000 DGE and DISBUN staff (Annex 3 shows
present and projected subsector staffing levels). About 4% work at
headquarters in Jakarta, 34% in DISBUN services at provincial and district
levels, and the remaining 62% .in various projects executed by DGE in support
of smallholders. Three quarters of existing staff are young (under 30 years
old) and most are in need of further training. About 14% of total staff have
had some postsecondary education, and about 78% are high school graduates.
However, at least half of the staff holding technical positions have had no
formal training in agriculture, and the majority of staff holding management
and supervisory posts at DGE, DISBUN, and project levels are high school
graduates. PTPs are not under the administrative control of DGE, but DGE is
responsible for the provision of technical guidance and planning support at
the macro level particularly for those PTPs participating in NES/PIR and other
smallholder projects. Currently, there are about 36,000 PTP personnel, of
whom about 63% are regular staff, and about 37% are field foremen (mandors).
Some of the PTPs have highly experienced staff and their own training
facilities, while others have a shortage of trained staff and limited training
capability.
1.23      Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE).
The AAETE is responsible for all agricultural training, including extension
training, in Indonesia. It operates: (a) 97 Agricultural Development Schools
which are the principal source of middle-level manpower for agriculture;
(b) 33 In-service Training Centers (ISTCs) to upgrade the capabilities of MOA
staff; (c) 11 Agricultural Information Centers (AICs) to prepare and
distribute extension materials; and (d) a National Agricultural Training
Institute (NATI) to provide long-term training for agricultural instructors
and other agricultural staff of GOI agencies. The Bank Group has provided
assistance to AAETE under three agricultural training projects (para. 1.36).
1.24      The ISTCs operated by AAETE play a significant role in providing in-
service training for middle-level agricultural technicians at regional or pro-
vincial level. Over 20 of the existing ISTCs specialize in agriculture and
animal husbandry, while the rest concentrate on forestry and fisheries. The
agricultural ISTCs were originally established to facilitate in-service train-
ing for MOA staff dealing with food crops development. As a result, many of
them continue to be dominated by food crops training infrastructure, are loca-
ted close to food crop production centers, and are short of training staff for
the estate crops subsector. At present, only three of the existing ISTCs are
being upgraded to become specialized estate crops training centers. AAETE is
being assisted by a number of externally supported projects to improve pre-
service, in-service and other training facilities, but none of these assist
with the training of trainers, especially for estate crops. NATI at present
does not have estate crops trainers on its staff, nor facilities to provide
practical commodity-specific training.



- 8 -
1.25      The Estates Training Institute (LPP).  Even though AAETE is the
agency responsible for all agricultural training in the country, LPP was
established to handle specific training needs for the various estate crops.
There are close linkages between the two institutions, as the Director General
of AAETE is the chairman of the Board of LPP. LPP is mainly concerned with
induction, technical, and managerial training of PTP staff, and is financially
supported by the estates. It operates in two campuses, Yogyakarta Mnd
Medan. LPP Yogyakarta concentrates on conducting higher level management and
career development diploma courses for PTP staff, providing training for the
sugar industry, and providing management an4 consultancy services to PTPs and
private estates. LPP Medan is located close to estate crops production
centers. Its principal task is to provide agricultural and related managerial
training for middle- and lower-level staff of PTPs and for private estates
producing tree crops such as oil palm, rubber, coconuts, and cocoa. Cur-
rently, three LPP Regional Training Centers are functioning to provide
training for junior estate and extension staff and one more is expected to
become operational in 1988. LPP training facilities seem adequate for the
estates training required during the remainder of the current Five-Year Plan
(Repelita IV, 1984-88) and for Repelita V (1989-1993), but a shortage of
teaching staff with a desirable blend of academic and practical experience
remains a constraint.
1.26      BIMAS.  The BIMAS Program Secretariat coordinates all support
services for the production of food crops and some estate crops, such as
sugarcane, tobacco, and cotton. It also deals with the administration of all
MOA extension personnel, covering appointment, salary payment, promotion, and
transfer throughout the country.
1.27      Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD).  The AARD
has overall responsibility for research in the agricultural sector, and has
five central research institutes. Two of these are the Estate Crops Research
Institute, which specializes in rubber, oil palm, coffee, cocoa, tea, and
cinchona, and the Industrial Crops Research Institute, which covers tobacco,
fiber crops, coconuts, cloves, and pepper. In general, AARD does not carry
out any training programs, but the physical facilities available in its
regional centers and a number of personnel are being used for tree crop
training, such as the training of staff and farmer leaders of the Smallholder
Rubber Development Projects (SRDP I and II), and by LPP Medan for some of its
training programs. Similarly the rubber, oil palm and coconut research
centers operated by the PTPs support training activities but do not offer
regular courses.



- 9 -
C. Subsectoral Human Resource Capacity Assessment
Subsectoral Training Needs
1.28      A skills gap survey carried out in 1985 21 was administered to six
categories of respondents selected as a stratified random sample from DISBUN,
PMUs, Estate Crops Upgrading Project, Special Projects in Transmigration
Areas, the PTPs and private estates. This was the first time such an approach
was taken to training needs analysis in the subsector. Questionnaires were
administered and field interviews conducted with senior managers, junior
managers, supervisors, extension workers, support staff, and farmer leaders.
Although based on an analysis of perceived needs of the respondents, these
results were verified by the respondents' supervisors and reveal the nature
and magnitude of the training requirements for various skills. Results of the
training needs analysis showed significant deficiencies in all aspects of the
wide range of tasks surveyed, indicating an across the board need for skill
reinforcement.
1.29      The survey identified existing staff who should be trained as the
first priority. Of the 63,000 people in the subsector (Annex 3), about 23,000
people would need to be trained, including 3,200 managers, 4,300 supervisors,
9,300 extension staff, 6,200 support (technical) staff and about 18,000 farmer
leaders. DGE manpower projections indicate that, by the end of Repelita V
(1994), the subsector will require about double the existing staff, including
senior and junior managers, supervisors, extension staff, and support staff,
given estimated production targets.
1.30      The training needs of farmer leaders fall into two categories--
commodity technology and formation and management of farmers groups.  Farmer
leaders under the PRPTE and NES/PIR schemes number about 10,000.
Existing Training Capacity
1.31      The LPP in Yogyakarta has on its staff 60 full-time and 30 part-time
lecturers. The majority are involved in conducting three-year diploma courses
for PTP staff. It has classroom capacity for 340 trainees and dormitory
facilities for 375 persons. The LPP at Medan has 21 full-time staff consist-
ing of six senior personnel performing mostly administrative functions and 15
junior staff who on appointment were new university graduates. LPP has
involved these staff members in a staff development program which includes
local exposure to PTP operations and advanced formal training. This center
also employs part-time lecturers drawn from senior staff of PTPs and
universities to assist with courses. Additionally, the LPP Regional Training
Centers (RTCs) at their full development in 1988 are expected to accommodate
1,000 trainees per year. No arrangement exists to staff these RTCs with
trainers specialized in specific commodities.
2/   A Survey of the Training Needs of the Estate Crops Sector in Indonesia,
DGE Manpower Working Group, 1985.



- 10 -
1.32      AAETE Agricultural In-Service Training Centers (ISTCs) in the
project area are distributed in 23 locations with about 157 full-time staff.
Very few-of these are commodity-specific trainers. AAETE contracts part-time
lecturers from universities and other agencies (including DISBUN and research
institutions) for their training programs. The ISTCs operated by AAETE,
including those which offer training in fisheries and forestry, have
altogether over 2,700 training places, but this number is expected to increase
to about 3,50n at the completion of the Third Agricultural Training Project--
Loan 2341-IND (para. 1.19). On the average, each ISTC could handle about
1,000 staff-weeks of tree crop related training per year. In recent years,
the utilization rate in ISTCs has been about 75X.
1.33      Twelve of the PTPs have classrooms and lodging facilities (for about
30 to 40 persons each) for staff who undergo induction or upgrading training
courses. In addition, some national universities have been involved in
conducting specially arranged training programs for DGE extension staff. The
growing and continuing need for specialized training indicates the need for a
core staff of commodity specific trainers to complement the available physical
training facilities.
1.34      An assessment of training facilities in the fourteen provinces
targetted by the project (Annex 3) indicates that adequate capacity is avail-
able for the proposed programs. It will be necessary, however, to utilize the
ISTCs and SPPs as well as the LPP, the research institutes and, at times, the
PTPs as capacity at the ISTCs, which can spare 48 days per year for tree crop
trairnng, will not be adequate to meet the demand. However, the extra tree
crop specialist trainers (para. 2.19) can be deployed from the ISTCs to other
facilities for the duration of each course ensuring the completion of the
program on time.
1.35      Manpower Development Capacity.  Even though there is a basic
institutional structure for manpower training in the estate crops subsector,
the DGE does not have staff trained to handle headquarters, provincial and
projects manpower planning and development. Although AAETE is charged with
providing necessary training to all HOA units, it needs to prepare courses and
curricula in response to the demands of these client units. So far, DGE has
not had the capability to quantify and articulate the needs for training in
the estate crops subsector. DGE should have the ability to compile manpower
data, assess present and future training needs, plan essential training and
monitor the effectiveness of training activities. This requires close and
effective coordination with the training agencies, such as AAETE and LPP. At
present, both AAETE and LPP provide some long-term basic training courses and
also training in extension methods. LPP is largely responsible for the
provision of management and management of technology training for PTPs and
private estates.
D. Government Human Resource Development Strategy in the Subsector
1.36      The Government is aware that a conscious effort needs to be
undertaken to address existing and prospective training needs, and it is
committed to the alleviation of the institutional and manpower constraints in
the subsector. It has confirmed, among other things, that: (a) the Director



- 11 -
General of Estates is responsible for the implementation and coordination of
the OOr tree crops program, and would be assigned full authority and account-
ability for the program by the Minister of Agriculture; (b) the DGE should be
strengthened, to enable the Director General to meet hWs responsibilities;
(c) strong human resource development capacity should be established in the
DGE, to provide for the requirements of the tree crops program; (d) a study on
the manpower and training requirements for Repelita IV and beyond should be
undertaken; (e) a special project should be implemented to train extension
staff and junior managers in the most skill deficient areas; and (f) farmer
leaders should be trained to bring technical skills and community development
ideas to their groups.
1.37      Alleviating the institutional and manpower constraints in the sector
could potentially increase export earnings in the key targetted tree crops if
serious efforts are made to transfer improved technology to smallholders. It
is estimated that through a combination of the right inputs of support ser-
vices and appropriate investments, together with improved training and exten-
sion, there is potential to increase the average smallholder yield for coconut
by 151, rubber by about 141, and coffee by about 25Z (Annex 11). This could
contribute to smallholder income and for PTPs and private estates, attain a 51
increase in revenue from production and quality improvement. The provision of
adequate vehicles, equipment, and recurrent funds to deliver relevant
extension messages to the smallholders will be essential. Lack of such inputs
would curtail any potential increases in revenue from production and quality
improvements.
1.38      Looking ahead to possible changes in the development pattern for the
targeted tree crops, it seems likely that shortage of funds will cause
increasing emphasis to be placed on pro7ision of upgraded serviceq to farmers,
spontaneous settlers and smallholders during the mature phases of their
crops. It is likely, however, that areas devoted to estate production,
especially in the private sector, will increase significantly, and that new
government projects will be increasingly devoted to ameliorating living
conditions for existing settlers by introducing tree crops to their farming
system.
E. The Bank's Human Resource Development Role and Strategy
in the Subsector
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.39      The Bank is placing a high priority on agricultural sector work, and
on establishing a comprehensive strategy for the development of the sector.
The importasce attached by the GOI and the Bank to the recomendations of the
Tree Crops Sector Review underscores the recognition given to the particular
importance of tree crops to the Indonesian economy and the agreement on the
urgent need for a human resource training and development program to permit
the effective implementation of the tree crops program in the medium- and
longer-term perspective. The subsector training needs are immense. This
project lays a foundation for meeting long-term training requirements, while
at the same time targeting training activities to bring about increases in
productivity (in terms of quantity and quality) for several key export



- 12 -
crops. The Bank-assisted manpower development program would contribute to
sectoral policy objectives and promote institutional development by increasing
the management, administrative, and staffing capabilities of DGE, AAETE, LPP,
PTPs, and PMUs.  Through its continued presence in the sector, the Bank could
not only assist with training under existing projects, but also provide the
support, technical assistance, and funds necessary to establish human resource
development capabilities in the DGE, and help correct the existing training
problems for the mediom and long term.
Bank Support for Agriculture Sector and Tree Crops Training
1.40      Bank support for human resource development in the tree crops
subsector has been largely project-related, meeting the training needs of
project personnel and beneficiaries and providing longer-term support for
building improved technical and management training capacity in LPP.
1.41      Two NES projects, NES I (Loan 1499-IND) and AE3 V (Loan 2007-IND),
provided long term institutional development support for LPP to enable it to
provide improved technical and management training for the PTPs and private
estates. Another NES project, NES II (Loan 1604-IND) provided a small amount
of financial support for a DISBUN extension center at Sungai Tiga and NES VII
(Loan 2232-IND) contained limited HRD-related technical assistance for the
DGE. The first Smallholder Rubber Development Project--SRDP I (Credit 984-IND)
included a training consultant and a training program for some 300 technical
and administrative staff in the three PHUs covered by the project. A training
system supported by instructors manuals was developed and refined for use in a
follow up project, SRDP II. The second project in the series, SRDP II (Loan
2494-IND), includes funds to develop staff managerial capacity and train over
4,000 farmer group leaders. It also includes a training consultant and plans
to expand three training centers for in-service training of project staff and
farmer leaders. The Smallholder Coconut Development Project--SCDP I (Loan
1898) included a training consultant and training for project technical,
financial and administrative staff. An ongoing WES sugar project
(Loan 2344-IND) addresses manpower and training programs for staff of seven
new estates within the overall sugar development program. Three agricultural
training projects (Credit 288-IND, Loan 1692-IND and Loan 2341-IND)
(para. 1.19) supported the establishment and growth of AAETE to enable it to
consolidate its pre-service secondary level training program and expand in-
service training facilities for the MOA. The first two projects have been
completed and were satisfactorily implemented while the third is still under
implementation. Only recently has AAETE turned its attention to tree crops
in-service trainj7g through the Third National Agricultural Extension Project
(Loan 2748-IND) - having concentrated for a considerable time on food crops
personnel training.
3/ This project was approved by the Board in September 1986 but, at GOI
request, was revised in November/December 1987.



- 13 -
1.42      Agriculture sector shortcominft  in manpower quantity and quality
were identified in a 1981 sector study.- Despite some progret,s in improving
PRT delivery and strengthening training institutions serving the subsector, a
large unmet training need persists. This is due to the fragmented, project by
project, approach to subsector HRD, the severe pressures on managerial and
technical staff brought on by ambitious subsector development otjectives and
the lack of training institution capacity to meet subsector-specific training
requests (Annex 3).
Project Design Considerations
1.43      The 1985 Tree Crops Sector Review detailed subsector staff weak-
nesses in technical, supervisory and management skill areas, weaknesses which
were confirmed in an in-depth skill gap analysis conducted by the DGE in 1985
(para. 1.23) and reflected in the 1986 project preparation report. A free-
standing Tree Crops Human Resource Development Project, which would serve to
strengthen overall subsector human resource development planning, implementa-
tion and evaluation, was recommended as the most logical approach to building
upon previous investments. This project would expand HRD capacity in the DGE,
improve subsector training needs analysis, evaluate training programs and
improve the quality of short, on-the-job instruction. It would also ensure
increased capacity in training institutions serving subsector HRD needs. The
link between field extension workers and the smallholders would be
strengthened by including in the project farmer leader training. The project
is therefore complementary to the training programs of AAETE and LPP and links
directly to the NAEP III project by training PPS level staff for tree crop
extension in the unified extension system. At appraisal only one tree crop
related Project Completion Report for the North Sumatra Smallholder
Development Project (CR 358-IND) had been issued but contained no significant
HRD related lessons. Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) of education
projects have been reviewed and lessons learned noted in the design of the
project. The PPAR for the first Agricultural Training Project (Cr. 288-IND)
(No. 3508, dated June 30, 1980, Sec M80-527) stressed the importance of
advanced preparation and the need for carefully designed and suitable tech-
nical assistance components. The Project Completion Report on the Fourth
Education Project (Ln. 1237-IND) (March 29, 1985) also emphasized the need to
provide adequate technical assistance for both project planning and implemen-
tation, and the importance of the timely appointment of PIU personnel and
effective coordination of project activities.
Project Focus
1.44      Government priority is given to improving the production and quality
of tree crop exports. One way of meeting this objective, which is supported
by the project, is to provide advice on no cost or low cost techniques for
existing smallholders to enable them to better maintain, harvest and process
their crops thereby increasing production and raising quality. Rubber,
4/   Indonesia:  Technical and Professional Manpower in Agriculture, The World
Bank, Report No. 3249b-IND), August 20, 1981.



- 14 -
coconuts and coffee are largely produced by smallholders in Indonesia while
oil palm is predominantly an estate produced commodity (para. 1.10). Where
oil palm estates have associated smallholders, advice and support is usually
provided directly by the estates. The project therefore supports training for
staff dealing with all four export crops but in the case of oil palm the sup-
port is focussed on training trainers to improve direct support to small-
holders and by upgrading the skills of DGE and LPP staff who provide tech-
nical, financial and management advice to estates personnel (Annex 3).
1.45      Mindful of prevailing financial constraints the project emphasizes
essential elements in building HRD capacity. The project as appraised may
therefore be regarded as a first phase of a two-phase project. A second phase
would expand the HRD functions and enable DCE to increase its managerial and
technical support to field staff, farmer leaders and smallholders as the
development of the subsector continues.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
2.1       Objectives.  The main objective of the project is to improve produc-
tivity in the tree crops subsector by enhancing subsector manpower management
capability and building subsector capacity to develop its human resources.
2.2       Through the training of specialized trainers, the project would
upgrade managers, technical and supervisory staff, exteAsion workers of the
DISBUN and PMUs and farmer leaders. This would lead to more effective inter-
action with smallholders, bringing about increased productivity in key small-
holder export crops. In the longer term, training capacity would be strength-
ened and human resource development functions institutionalized in the DGE.
2.3       Project Scope.  rue project adopts a subsectorwide approach to human
resource development and incorporates long-term, medium-term, and short-term
programs to build the capacity to improve the quality of subsector personnel
and increase the effectiveness of human resource management.
2.4       The project would establish a human resource development capability
within the DGE which would provide the guidance and leadership to plan, coord-
inate and monitor manpower and training for estates subsector personnel. The
project would improve the quality of managerial and technical support which
the DGE provides to field staff serving its various smallholder projects
through the inclusion of management training, overseas fellowships and a
management information systems study. The institutions mainly responsible for
subsector training (LPP and AAETE) would also be strengthened to enable them
to provide a greater volume of training to meet the needs of the subsector. A
concentrated program of managerial and technical training would addresp the
shorter-term skill needs of DISBUN and PMU staff in some 14 provinces -_ which
5/   Aceh, Bali, Bengkulu, Jambi, East Java, West Kalimantan, Lampung, Maluku,



- 15 -
have the greatest concentration of major tree crop production. Farmer leader
training would be implemented in the NES/PIR project areas and in the PMJ3s of
the fourteen project provinces. Improvement in the quality of financial
management skills of staff dealing directly with accounting and management and
an increased awareness of cost effectiveness and the function of financial
management in PTPs and private estates would be achieved by providing an
extensive program of financial management training.
B. Project Components
2.5       The proposed project would include financing for consultant servi-
ces, overseas fellowships, local training, training of trainers, farmer leader
training, instructional equipment and materials, and incremental operating
costs to:
(a)  strengthen the overall capacity of the DGE to plan, coordinate, and
monitor and promote manpower and training for estate crops personnel
and farmer leaders through the establishment of Human Resource
Development capability within the DGE;
(b) improve the quality of managerial and technical support for DGE
field staff and smallholders by including 15 master's and 30 short-
term study visit overseas fellowships, management training for 40
selected DGE staff and funding of a management information systems
study for the organization;
(c) strengthen training delivery capacity of subsector institutions
(AAETE and LPP) involved in subsectoral training, by training about
50 trainers specializing in the major tree crops and making
provision for 3 PhD programs, 7 master's degrees, 12 short-term
overseas study visits and 11 in-country study tours for LPP staff,
and 7 master's degrees for AAETE;
(d) improve productive capacity of the subsector through the provision
of technical, financial, and management training for DISBUN and PMU
staff supporting the production of major export crops in fourteen
provinces;
(e) undertake farmer leader/contact farmer training in group leadership
and recommended practices; and
(f) build capacity for the administration of manpower development in the
Secretariat General of the MOA by funding six master's degree
programs.
Riau, North Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, North Sumatra,
South Sumatra.



- 16 -
C. Strengthening the Directorate General of Estates
(US$3.4 million excluding contingencies)
2.6       Building Human Resource Development Capacity.  Central to the
project is the establishment of Human Resource Development (HRD) capacity
within the DCE. The HRD staff would have three major DGE wide
responsibilities: (a) forecasting medium and long-term personnel requirements
and preparing a subsector master plan for human resource development; (b)
assessing staff training needs and cooperating with sector training agencies
in planning training programs to meet those needs; and (c) coordinating the
training program and evaluating the training delivery system and its training
activities.
2.7       During the life of the project, capacity would be developed in the
following areas: management of the HRD function, manpower planning and
development, training needs assessment and training program planning, and
training program implementation, evaluation and management. The overall
impact of the improved HRD capability would be to minimize the human resource
factor as a constraint in estate crops development.
.2.8      Organization and Staffing for HRD Capacity Building.  Overall
management of the project would be the responsibility of a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). Human Resource Development capacity would be first
developed from within the PIU and later in certain DGE Directorates and the
Secretariat (para. 4.2). Five staff members of DCE would be assigned on a
full-time basis to work with the technical assistance team in the PIU, the
PIU/)HRD group, where they would participate in the creation of DGE annual HRD
plans and programs. The assigned counterpart staff would be trained to become
the DGE HRD specialists. The organizational structure of the PIU is
diagrammed in Chart 1. The PIU would be headed by a full time manager. The
project manager, together with consultants and counterparts, would be
responsible for the establishment of the HRD function, formulation of annual
HRD activities such as systemwide manpower reviews, training needs analyses,
staff development and evaluation, planning and coordination of staff training,
and establishing links with AAETE and other training institutions. The five
DGE staff in the PIU/HED group would each be assigned a detailed training plan
in consultation with the technical assistance team. A decision would be taken
by the technical assistance team on the appropriate specialization for each of
the counterparts but the important areas to be covered would be: manpower
planning and development; training needs assessmaent and training program
planning; training program coordination and evaluation; and techniques of
effective farmer leader training and communciation. It is envisaged that all
five staff would be considered interchangeable by function to meet workload
peaks and to backstop while colleagues undertake formal training. The Project
Manager would report to the Director General of Estates during the project
implementation period and would be responsible for regular progress reports.
A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken to assess the effective-
ness of the HRD activities. At negotiations the Government provided
assurances that it would submit to the Bank by December 1990 detailed plans of
annual DGE-wide HRD activities other than training which would become part of
the normal operations of the DGE.



- 17 -
2.9       HRD Staff Selection and Training.  The selection and training of
full-time counterpart staff for HRD work will be a major factor in
successfully establishing effective capacity to manage human resources. Every
effort would be made to choose only those staff who have the background and
inclination to work in human resource development or who are trainable in the
various fields required for HRD. Assigned staff will work in thg6PIU/HRD
group on a full-time basis and will, most likely, be echelon IV.-' On
completion of their project assignments and training programs they will return
to taeir Directorates and the Secretariat as HRD specialists thereby
strengthening these units and, together, providing URD capacity in the DGE.
..10      Technical Assi:tance.  Four internationally recruited specialist
consultants (114 staff-montiz will be required to assist the DGE in
establishing the HRD functioai. The specialists who will be internationally
recruited will represent the following areas of expertise (Terms of reference
for all specialists are in Annex 5):
(a) Establishment and Management of the HRD Functions. The services of
a specialist experienced in the management of human resource
development activities will be required for a period of 30 staff-
months to establish the function within DGE, to provide linkages to
other supporting entities inside and external to DGE, demonstrate
the potential and usefulness of HRD, and design a HRD system for DOE
which would provide a detailed guideline for annual DGE wide HRD
work. The Project Manager and counterparts will work closely with
this specialist to jointly establish and direct the development of
the HRD function.
(b) Manpower Planning and Development. The project would employ, for a
period of 30 staff-months a specialist to define and create a system
for mant,wwer planning and development of staff and farmer leaders
for the subsector.  A DOE staff member would work with the technical
assistance specialists in the development and field testing of the
system and the completion of guidelines for future use.
(c)  Training Needs Assessment and Training Program Planning.  One of the
more important HID roles will be the ongoing assessment of training
needs and the production of training program plans. A specialist in
training needs assessment will be employed for 30 staff-months to
develop, with the assistance of two DGE assigned staff, an approach
to training needs assessment and training program planning tailored
to subsector needs. Once developed and field-tested, the
methodology would be produced as a guideline for future use by DGE
BRD staff. The technical assistance specialist would also arrange
for the training of DOE staff at provincial, district, and PMU level
in the application of training needs assesement techniques. In
applying training needs assessment techniques to field staff the
6/   Younger professional staff whose duties enable them to be assigned on a
full time basis to special projects.



- 18 -
TCHRD should liaise closely with AAETE which has developed
competency based training approaches to field staff and farmer
leader training.
(d) Training Program Coordination and Evaluation. A considerable volume
of well-defined training needs presented in order of priority will
emerge from the HRD group's systematic approach to manpower planning
and development. DGE training requirements will be met externally
by agencies such as AAETE, LPP, AARD, and the universities, while a
considerable portion of the ad hoc and routine on-the-job training
will be carried out in-house by DGE staff. A specialist in training
program coordination, implementation, and evaluation would be
employed for a period of 24 staff-months to work with assigned DGE
staff in developing methodology and systems for this vital
function. The scope of the assignment would also cover training
quality and choice and utilization of training aids.
2.11      Management Information Systems.  The project would support a study
of management information systems operating in DGE which would make recommen-
dations for the creation of improved systems which would better serve future
needs. -It would also detail the requirements for data processing equipment
and software for the XKv and propose the most appropriate locations for these
additional resources. The MIS study would follow a preproject institutional
study of the total DGE organization, its linkages inside and outside the sub-
sector, and its overall and entity specific responsibilities which has been
completed and which was funded from Loan 2232-IND (NES VII). Technical
assistance for the MIS study would comprise four management information
specialists for a total of 24 manmonths.
2.12      In order to expedite selection and appointment of technical
assistance the Government provided at negotiations (a) a shott list of firms
to supply technical assistance and (b) draft contracts. Both items were
reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
2.13      Strengthening the Management and Technical Capacity of DGE
Headquarters Staff. The secretariat and six directorates at DGE headquarters
require a high level of management and technical skill in order to provide the
leadership and technical backstopping required by DGE staff working on various
projects and development programs throughout the country. An organization
chart showing details of the respective responsibilities of the DGE direc-
torates is given in Annex 2 Chart 2. The project would include fellowships
for long-term and short-term programs of management and technical training for
staff of these units. Some 15 fellowships for masters level programs, approx-
imately three per directorate, would be included for staff of the various DGE
Directorates and the Secretariat. It is envisioned that the directorates
would seek to gain qualifications for their staff as indicated below:



- 19 -
Directorate of Planning        3 Agricultural Economics/Development/
Commodity Analysis, Institutional
Development. Human Resources
Management
Directorate of Extension       s Extension methodology including
communications, group dynamics and
adult education. Human Resources
Development.
Directorate of Rehabilitation
and Expansion                : Technical qualifications - soils,
agronomy crop protection
Directorate of Agribusiness    s MBA in marketing, processing,
agribusiness. Human Resources
Development
Directorate of Crop Production : Technical qualification in pest and
disease control, environmental
protection
Secretariat                    s Administration, personnel management.
Human Resources Development
A number of potential candidates from this group are already enrolled in
language training prior to commencing their studies overseas. Financing for
language training is included in the allocation for fellowships. The
Government had completed the identification of the first group of staff to
participate in the program in the various directorates of the DGE, their
fields of specialization, and proposed schedules for departure for overseas
training programs, and made appropriate arrangements for language training and
placement. The proposals were reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
2.14      A substantial number of staff in the DGE directorates have not had
sufficient expoaure to basic and improved tree crop technology to give them
the confidence to capitalize on their academic preparation. The project would
provide 30 three-month tailor-made study visits in eart and south Asian loca-
tions for 15 technical staff and 15 senior/middle managers and in-country
study tours for 30 individuals for a duration of one month per person. The
general objective would be to bolster the leadership role of middle level and
senior staff through exposure to carefully selected technical and managerial
programs. Groups of five persons each should participate in study tours
designed to stimulate thinking and provide wider appreciation of tree crop
production, organization, administration, and staff development. These short
courses, especially those conducted in-country would, in addition to providing
technical upgrading for DGE personnel, develop valuable contacts with research
and training institutions, PTPs, and private estates and the marketing
agencies for the subsector.
2.15      The project would support a program of in-house management training
for some 40 staff at DCE headquarters. The program would be divided into



- 20 -
basic, intermediate, and advanced management training courses and would be
offered over a three year period. Two two-week courses for twenty trainees
each would be offered each year. To implement the program, 14 staff-months of
technical assistance (seven months international and seven months domestic)
would be provided. The precise content of the courses would be decided by the
HRD team after it has reviewed the needs analysis carried out at project
appraisal.
D. Improvement of Training Delivery Capacity in the Subsector
(US$6.1 million excluding contingencies)
2.16      The component would have three objectives:  training of trainers
(master trainers and crop-specific trainers) for AAETE; designing a financial
management training course for LPP; and strengthening staff capability at
LPP.
2.17      The project would create a cadre of lead or master trainers to serve
the needs of estate crop personnel by providing seven two-year master's degree
fellowships for staff of AAETE. Four staff to become crop-specific trainers
would be chosen from a group now being trained under a UNDP/FAO program. Two
fellowships for the creation of management lead trainers would be awarded to
staff chosen from AAETE's National Agricultural Training Institute (NATI).
Once trained the lead/master trainers would be located at NATI or, for crop
specific trainers, at specialized training centers of AAETE located in various
parts of the country.
2.18      Fifty trainers specializing in tree crops would be trained for
AMETE. Trainees would participate in a five-month program in-country and
would specialize in specific tree crops and postharvest technology. On
completion of their training the tree crop trainers would be attached to
In-Service Training Centers (ISTCs) of AAETE which provide tree crop training
courses. The post-harvest technology specialists would be assigned to ISTCs
according to need. Equipment would be supplied for the 23 ISTCs involved in
training for the proposed project. The new trainers would offer technical
training to supervisory and extension staff of the PHUs and assist with tree
crop training programs at the ISTCs. Government selected 50 trainee trainers
and prepared a draft training curriculum for the training of trainers,
including proposals for necessary field visits which were reviewed and agreed.
2.19      Twenty-eight PTP field supervisory staff and twenty-eight District
staff who would become NES/PIR farmer leader trainers would be trained at
LPP.  The course would run for four weeks.
2.20      The project would fund 3 PhD programs, 7 master's degrees, 12 short-
term overseas study visits and 11 in-country short-term study visits and
short-term training courses for staff of LPP Yogyakarta and Medan. LPP would
also be provided with technical assistance and equipment for the design and
implementation of its financial management courses (para. 2.32). Institu-
tional strengthening on both campuses of LPP would be supported by specialist
technical assistance. (A detailed breakdown of technical assistance is
contained in Annex 4, Table 1.)



- 21 -
E. Improvement of Subsectoral Productivity: Local Training Programs
(US$12.1 million excluding contingencies)
2.21      The local training programs component is designed to raise technical
and management skills of DISBUW and PMU staff to a level whereby they can
efficiently and effectively assist smallholders to improve maintenance,
production and primary processing.   The number (rounded) of trainees for each
category of training may be summarized as follows:
Management Training
DISBUN Senior Managers                     140
DISBUN Junior Managers                     530
PMU Managers                             1,260
Technical Training
PMU Assistant Manager (technical)          420
PMU Supervisors                          1,260
PMU Extension Workers                    2,350
Financial Management Training
Estate Senior Managers                      75 (out of 208)
Senior Financial Staff                       75 (out of 205)
Tunior Financial Staff                     200 (out of 450)
hon Financial Staff (financial
awareness course)                        150 (out of 300)
2.22      Technical and Manaaement Training.  Under this component, a concen-
trated program of technical and management training would be carried out to
provide a basic package of technical and supervisory skills of some 2,300 PMU
extension workers, 1,260 area supervisors, and 420 assistant managers (techni-
cal) of the PMUs. Details of the training program are in Annex 4, Table 3.
Training would be carried out by AAETE at the ISTCs employing the newly
trained trainers described in para. 2.18 above.
2.23      Extension Worker Training.  PMU extension worker training would
concentrate on basic technical aspects of the targetted crops and emphasize
practical applications of recommended techniques. Extension staff would be
trained in techniques of effective communication with the smallholder farmer
and learn how to advise farmer groups on leadership. The importance of the
contact farmer and smallholder groups would be emphasized.
2.24      Prior to completion of the training package each PMU extension
worker would be required to complete a supervised demonstration or field day
with a farmer audience. The ISTC trainer would supervise this learning
experience and rate the PMU extension worker on his performance. A satisfac-
tory evaluation would indicate that the PMU extension worker could in future
undertake such a task with minimum supervision. An unsatisfactory rating
would call for a repeat supervised session until proficiency had been
achieved. Supervision of participants in training courses is a duty of ISTC
trainers, and would be budgeted as a recurrent cost for the duration of the
project and beyond. There are sufficient trainers in the project area ISTCs
to complete the required supervision during the life of the project.



- 22 -
2.25      Management Training for DISBUN Staff.  DISBUN staff located at
Provincial (DISBUW I) and District (DISBUN II) levels have the responsibility
for supervising the activities of the PMUs. The project would provide through
AAETE a comprehensive program of management training for DISBUN staff of the
14 provinces included in the project. The training program is detailed in
Annex 4, Table 3. The program would emphasize management techniques required
to revitalize PMU activities and would include work program planning, staff
management, farmer group motivation and supervision, resource management and
financial management.
2.26      The target trainee group numbers about 670 persons for the fourteen
project provinces. This number can be broken down as follows:
Senior Staff:
DISBUN I Subdivision Heads                  70
DISBUN II Heads                            55
DISBUN I Administration Heads               14
Sub Total (rounded)                       140
Junior Staff:
DISBUN I Subdivision Staff                280
DISBUN II Subdivision Staff                165
DISBUN I Administration Staff              28
DISBUW II Admin. Subdivision Heads         55
Sub Total (rounded)                       530
Total (rounded)                           670
2.27      Management Training for PMU Managers.  About 1,260 PHU managers
would attend similar courses to those given for DISBUN staff, concentrating on
smallholder project and extension management, work program planning, tech-
nology upgrading, and management of people.
2.28      Local consultants would be provided to AAETE to:  (a) carry out a
thorough management training needs analysis and prepare course outlines, and
(b) prepare and field test training materials. AAETE and LPP staff would work
closely with the consultants to provide support and to share their experiences
with previous management training for staff of the target group. The first
consultant team should comprise a tree crop (smallholder) specialist and a
management training specialist, for three months each. The second team should
include a management training specialist, an audio-visual specialist, and a
smallholder tree crop specialist, for four months each.
2.29      Treining delivery would be carried out by a combination of AAETE and
LPP staff. Locations for the training program would be chosen to avoid exces-
sive travel on the part of participants.
2.30      Enhancing the Financial Management Capacity of PTP and Private
Estates Personnel. To remedy recognized weaknesses in financial management on
the part of accounting staff and senior managers, and a lack of appreciation



- 23 -
of the cost implications of estate management by nonfinancial personnel, a
package of training courses would be developed by LPP with the assistance of
expert consultants. Two types of courses would be offered over a three year
period, on completion of which participants would have been exposed to a
package of new financial skills and techniques.  The two types of courses are:
(a) courses with a purely financial focus. Trainee groups for this
category would include senior managers, senior accountants, and
junior accounting staff; and
(b)  courses designed to increase financial awareness.  This category is
for staff in the agronomy, technology, commercial, personnel,
administration, development, and estate management departments of
the PTPs and private estates.
2.31      The estimated trainee population for financial management courses is
as follows:
Private
PTP       Estates        Total
Courses for financial staff
Senior Managers (Level I)                      52           52           104
Senior Managers (Level II)                     52           52           104
Financial Section Heads at PTPs               130           75           205
Financial Staff of Plantations                400           50           450
Total trainee group                      634          229           863
Financial Awareness Courses
Production, Administration and
Commercial Staff                            200          100           300
Therefore, the target group would be about 860 for the financial staff courses
and 300 for the financial awareness courses, for a total trainee population of
about 1,160.
2.32      Due to limited capacity, it would not be possible to train all staff
in the identified trainee groups during the project implementation period.
The course in financial management would therefore be limited to 75 senior
managers, 75 senior accountants, and 200 junior accounting staff from PTPs and
private estates. Although the project would finance the initial courses for
private estates personnel, these latter are expected to pay full costs for
attending the program, as the financing provided under the project is expected
to serve as seed money to stimulate the preparation of initial financial



- 24 -
training courses for private estates. Senior managers would receive a one-
week course per year over three years, senior accountants would receive a two-
week course per year over three years, and junior accountants would receive a
three week course per year over three years. A total of nine courses would
need to be designed. The financial awareness course would be offered to 150
staff from PTPs and private estates at the rate of two courses of 25 partici-
pants each repeated over a three year period. The same course would be
offered to all participants in this category, so each participant attends once
in the three year delivery period. LPP would continue to offer financial
management courses post project which would cater to the needs of the
remaining staff in the target group.
2.33      Preparation of the financial management training course package
would be divided into three phases:
(a) Training Needs Analysis and Design of Training Courses. A two-man
consultant team working with LPP would undertake a detailed
financial training needs analysis. The team would work for six
months to identify areas of competency weakness in the financial
management staff of PTPs and private estates. The team would also
produce a similar analysis for non-financial staff who require a
greater appreciation of financial management. Twelve staff-months
of financial management training specialist time is allotted to the
design of training packages to meet the needs identified in the
first phase.
(b) Training Materials Preparation. A specialized team comprising a
case writing specialists, a financial management training specialist
and an ex PTP financial management staff member, would devote 18
months to the preparation of case materials in Bhasa Indonesia,
adapting them for computer application and field testing the
product. The teams would collaborate closely with LPP staff.
(c) Financial Course Delivery. Six months of specialized technical
assistance would be provided to help launch the financial course
series, make adjustments in teaching methodology and materials and
evaluate participant reaction.
2.34      The financial staff courses would be offered and conducted by LPP at
Yogyakarta and Medan. Computers would be provided at both campuses to enable
the case study exercises to be completed. The financial awareness courses
would be offered at convenient locations, as computerized laboratory exercises
would not be required.
2.35      At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that annual
training programs would be submitted to the Bank by December 30 of each year,
starting in 1988, for review and comment and implemented thereafter.



- 25 -
Farmer Leader Training
2.36      The project would support a program of systematic training for
farmer leaders from the NES/PIR, PMU and KIK schemes to capitalize on the
potential of smallholders to increase production from existing tree crops by
practicing recommended low cost husbandry and primary processing techniques.
The training program would also encourage acceleration of the process of
community development through group activities. GOI through the MOA is in the
process of developing a unified extension service which would eventually
undertake farmer leader training in all subsectors. The farmer leader
training activities in the proposed project will address immediate and urgent
training needs in the tree crops subsector with the understanding that as the
unified service builds capacity, tree crops farmer leader training will become
its responsibility.
2.37      NES/PIR Farmer Leader Training.  The trainee target group in this
category includes farmer leaders from smallholder areas which have entered the
conversion stage (i.e., have obtained title to their smallholdings) and those
smallholders who are approaching this stage. The latter are included in the
training program because exposure to systematic training is expected to foster
positive attitudes toward group formation, membership and responsibility, all
desirable attributes for tree crop smallholders in NES/PIR schemes. Training
would take place on the NES/PIR sites. A PTP/DISBUN team would implement the
program with the PTP trainers concentrating on technical subjects, the DISBUN
trainers on group activities and leadership. Farmer leaders would be trained
in groups of twenty and would have three three-day sessions per year. A total
of 750 converted farmer leaders and 4,000 smallholder leaders approaching the
conversion stage would be trained each year. Over the project implementation
period, training sessions would be conducted with follow-up between sessions
by PTP field supervisors and staff assigned to the newly created posts of Area
Development Officer (para. 2.42).
PMU (PRPTE) Farmer Leader Training
2.38      There are two target groups in this category, namely farmer leaders
from the area covered by the proposed SECDP project (103 PMWUs) and those
served by the other 367 PRPTE PMUs. There are an estimated 2,800 farmer
leaders in the SECDP area and 6,700 in the remaining PHUs. The training
program for farmer leaders from all PMUs would be similar to that offered in
the NES/PIR program but with additional training in husbandry techniques due
to the fact that PMU smallholders have not had the same level of technical
support as in NES/PIR schemes. Farmers would be trained in groups of twenty
and each group would participate in four three-day courses each year. In the
SECDP areas, training would take place in 55 consolidated PMUs each of which
will have an Assistant Manager (Training) responsible for the organization and
implementation of the training program. When required additional assistance
for training would be sought from other agencies such as cooperatives and
community development and from SECDP provincial and headquarters staff.
2.39      Farmer leader training for the other PHUs would be same as for the
SECDP in terms of trainee group size, content, duration and frequency.
However, training would take place in 150 better managed PMUs which would be



- 26 -
designated Training Coordinating PMUs (TCPMUs). The TCPMU manager would be
responsible for the planning and implementation of the training program for
his own PMU area and for areas covered by 2 or 3 non TCPMUs.  PMU managers
from other non-training coordinating PMUs would also participate as trainers
when farmer leaders from their areas were undergoing training. A total of
6,700 farmer leaders would be trained each year. Over the project
implementation period about 1,800 training sessions would be conducted with
follow-up by PMU extension staff between sessions.
Training of Trainers for the Farmers Leader Training Program
2.40      Combined groups of PTP field supervisory and DISBUN staff for the
NES/PIR program would be trained for one month in LPP before commencing the
implementation of the training program. The cost of the one-month course is
estimated at US$242 per person. PTP;and DISBUW staff would be trained during
the first year of project implementation. SECDP has designed a one-month
training program for its Assistant Managers (Training) based on the experience
gained in the training programs of SRDP I and II. The training program would
be subcontracted to LPP or AAETE at the same cost per person as for NES/PIR.
Fifty-five staff would be trained during the first year of project
implementation. A recent ministerial decision has created the post of Area
Development Officer (ADO) at some 190 NES/PIR sites. These graduate level
appointees would serve to coordinate the various services available to
smallholders. These include technical advice from the PTP, food crops,
cooperatives, farmer organizations and other government agencies. The ADO
would live in the NES/PIR location and work closely with the site manager. A
specialized training course would be designed for the 190 ADOs and offered by
LPP using resource persons from all concerned rural agencies supplying advice
and services to the smallholders. The course would take three months to
design and would be of six weeks duration. The cost per person would be
US$364.
Selection and Placement of Candidates for Advanced Training Fellowships
2.41      The project includes fellowships for PhD, master's and short-term
study programs. Selection criteria based on academic achievement, work
experience, age, language capability, potential for contribution to the
institution after training and level of interest in pursuing additional skills
and knowledge are already developed in AAETE and LPP and have been tested in
the placement of a considerable number of fellows. Selection of DGE
directorate staff for advanced technical training will be based on the same
set of criteria with extra weight being placed on work experience, length of
potential service after training, leadership ability and language
capability. Selection committees are in place in AAETE and LPP and, in the
case of DGE, management s;aff with assistance from the HRDU working group will
undertake the selection of candidates.
2.42      There is a considerable reservoir of expertise in placing candidates
for advanced training in local and overseas educational institutions. Both
AAETE and LPP together have placed large numbers of staff in master's degree
programs and short-term skill upgrading courses under five Bank-supported
projects. The HRD group will also act as a placement resource by contributing



- 27 -
to candidate selection, defining needs, participating in the selection of
suitable training sites and administering and monitoring trainee progress.
Status of Project Preparation
2.43      The project was prepared by the DGE with technical assistance from
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. A Human Resource Development Working
Group was formed in the DGE and undertook preproject activities including
arrangements for an institutional study of the DOE organization, recruitment
of consultants, identification of candidates for overseas fellowship programs
and preparation of equipment lists. A short list of consulting firms to
undertake a preproject institutional study of the DGE organization was
prepared, t1e consultant hired and the study completed by May 1988, financed
under Loan 2232-IND (para. 2.11). Schedules for appointment of consultants
and draft terms of reference for technical assistance for HRD have been drawn
up, reviewed and agreed at negotiations (paras. 2.10 and 2.12). SEKNEG
approval for the technical assistance proposal has been obtained. Consultants
for the supply of HRD expertise are expected to be in post by December 1988.
Selection criteria and a draft training program for trainee trainers was
prepared and the selection of trainee trainers and the preparation of the
training program were reviewed and agreed at negotiations (para. 2.18).
Schedules of overseas fellowship programs and the broad selection criteria of
candidates for the programs related to each project activity have been
discussed. The first group of candidates for overseas fellowships was
identified and necessary arrangements for language training made and agreed at
negotiations (para. 2.13). Detailed lists of equipment indicating proposed
packaging and cost estimates would be prepared by AAETE, reviewed and agreed
during supervision.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$26.6 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in Table 1
and detailed cost tables are presented in Annex 6, Tables 1 through 7.
3.2       Base costs are expressed in July 1988 prices.  Technical assistance
costs are based on current actual unit costs of those services in other educa-
tion and agricultural training projects in Indonesia. Overseas fellowships
costs are estimated at an average of US$18,000 per year for degree programs
and US$2,000 per month for short-term studies (3 months). Estimated costs of
local training programs and training of trainers program are based on unit
price indices issued by BAPPENAS and on detailed budgets for training courses
prepared by AAETE. Unit costs of local training (excluding travel costs of
trainees and training materials) which have been agreed with the DOE and AAETE
and which conform to BAPPENAS standards, are Rupiah 21,000 (US$13) per staff-
day for technical/commodity training for PMU area supervisors and extension
workers, and Rupiah 25,000 (US$15) per staff-day for managerial, administra-
tive and financial management training for managers, assistant managers,
accountants and DOE staff. Details are given in Annex 6, Table 9. Unit costs



- 28 -
of farmer leader training are Rp 21,000 (US 13) per three day course and
Rupiah 28,000 (US 17) for NES/PIR and PMU converted and noncoverted farmer
leaders per three day course respectively. Estimated equipment costs are
based on preliminary lists of equipment for laboratories, technical/commodity
training and audio visual training prepared by AAETE and LPP which were
reviewed during appraisal and found appropriate in scope and cost. Incre-
mental salaries and allowances for the PIU/HRD staff and trainers are based on
current salary levels of comparable functions. Operating costs (including
incremental salaries) directly relate to project activities are included in
the project and amount to about 16X of project costs. Duties and taxes on
equipment and services are estimated at about US$0.5 million equivalent.
3.3       the estimated foreign exchange content of US$8.7 million
representing about 33% of the total project cost has been calculated on the
basis of the estimated foreign exchange percentages shown in Annex 6,
Table 1. The contingency allowance of US$5.0 million equivalent includes:
(a) physical contingencies (US$2.2 million equivalent) estimated at 10% of
base costs; and (b) price contingencies (US$2.8 million equivalent) which are
equivalent to about 12% of base costs plus physical contingencies, calculated
in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 8) and the following
estimated average annual price increases: 5.0% local for 1988-90 and 61 for
subsequent years; and 3.0X foreign for '988-90, and 4% for subsequent years.



- 29 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   exchange
------ Rp bln -------- …U$ mln ------
A. Strengthening Director-
ate General of Estates
Human Resources De-
velopment/PIU           1.3     2.7       4.0      0.8      1.6       2.4         67
Staff Development
Program                0.2      1.1       1.3     O.1       0.7       0.8         84
Management Information
System Study           0.1      0.3       0.4      0.0      0.2       0.2         85
Subtotal                1.6     4.1       5.7      0.9      2.5       3.4         72
B. Improvement of Trainin8
Delivery Capacity in
the Subsector
AA TE                     2.8     1.9       4.7      1.6       1.2      2.8         41
LPP                       1.5     3.5       5.0      0.9       2.1      3.0         69
MOA Sec. Cen.             0.1     0.4       0.5      0.1       0.2      0.3         83
Subtotal               4.4      5.8      10.2      2.6      3.5       6.1         57
C. Improvement of Sectoral
Productivity-Local Training
Programs
Project Management
Units                  9.2      1.0      10.2      5.5      0.6       6.1         10
DISBUM                    0.7     0.1       0.8      0.4       0.1      0.5          10
PTPs                      0.5     0.1       0.6      0.3       0.0      0.3          15
Private Estates           0.2     0.0       0.2      0.2       0.0      0.2          15
Farmer Leaders            6.9     1.3       8.2      4.2       0.8      5.0          15
Subtotal              17.5      2.5      20.0    10.6        1.5     12.1         12
Total Baseline Costs    23.5    12.4        35.9    14.1        7.5      21.6         34
Physical Contingencies       2.4      1.2      3.6      1.5       0.7       2.2         34
Price Contingencies          3.8      0.8      4.6      2.3       0.5       2.8         17
Total Project Costs /a  29.7    14.4        44.1    17.9        8.7      26.6         33
/a   Includes US$0.5 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



- 30 -
B. Financing Plan
3.4       The proposed Bank loan of US$18.4 million would firance 70Z of the
project costs net of duties and taxes. The remaining US$8.2 million including
duties and taxes would be provided by the Government. The proposed financing
plan is shown in Table 2.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
IBRD
Share
Govern-                         (exclusive
Category of expenditures           ment /a    IBRD      Total       of taxes)
------(US$ million)------           (X)
Consultants                          0.3        2.0      2.3            100
(0.3)              (0.3)
Overseas fellowships                  0         1.7      1.7            100
Training of trainers                  0         0.3      0.3            100
Local training /b                    2.0       11.3     13.3             85
Equipment and vehicles,              1.0        1.7      2.7             68
books and journals                (0.2)               (0.2)
Operating Costs                      4.0        0.0      4.0              0
Unallocated                          0.9        1.4      2.3
Total                           8.2      18.4      26.6
(0.5)              (0.5)
/a   Figures in parentheses show estimated taxes included in totals.
Tb   The Bank will finance 100% of the costs of local training excluding
training materials, which will be financed by the Government.
3.5       Annual Costs.  The 1987/88 budget of the DCE was about Rp 283 bil-
lion. The average annual investment cost of the project is about US$5.0 mil-
lion. This represents about 2.9X of the current DGE budget. The average
counterpart fund required for the project activities is about Rp 2.4 billion
per year, which accounts for less than one percent of the DGE budget and is
regarded by the Government as reasonable and acceptable. The annual incre-
mental recurrent expenditures generated by the project in 1993/94, the year in
which the project will be completed, are estimated at about Rp 0.7 billion (at
1988 prices), of which Rp 0.2 billion is for the DGE and Rp 0.5 billion for
AAETE. This represents about 4.02 of the current AAETE budget of about
Rp 12.5 billion. The level of incremental recurrent expenditures should not
constitute an unreasonable strain on the DGE and AAETE budgets.



-31 -
3.6       Cost Recoverg.  The proposed project would finance the initial
financial training courses for private estates personnel. While the financing
provided under the project would serve as seed money to stimulate the prepara-
tion of initial courses, a full cost-recovery fee would be charged for
training of private estates personnel. PTPs make annual financial contribu-
tions to LPP for its day-to-day operations. In addition, a fee is charged for
training of PTP staff. This practice would continue throughout project imple-
mentation. The combination of fees and financial contributions made by PTPs
would cover approximately full costs of training of PTP staff.
3.7       Budget Allocations.  Budget allocations would be made to the project
annually in accordance with an updated expenditure schedule based on the
agreed annual plan of activities, which would be reviewed and updated annually
by the Government in consultation with the Bank. At negotiations, the
Government submitted to the Bank the 1988/89 DIP for the project-financed
activities agreed with the Bank for the first year and provided assurances
that an annual budget would be prepared in consultation with the Bank and
reviewed together with the training programs by December 31 each year.
C. Procurement
3.8       Equipment required for laboratories and technical training,
computers and audio visual equipment would be grouped to the extent possible
in packages to facilitate bulk procurement and packages valued at US$200,000
or more (estimated total value US$1.6 million) would be awarded on the basis
of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. In comparison of bids for equipment, local manufacturers would be
given a margin of preference of 15X of c.i.f. price of competing imports or
the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment for practical training
and smaller equipment packages valued at less than US$200,000 (estimated total
value US$0.5 million) would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding in
accordance with Government procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Other equipment items and materials arranged in packages not exceeding
US$20,000 equivalent for each package and aggregating to a maximum of US$0.2
million equivalent could be purchased through prudent shopping on the basis of
quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under the guidelines. Books
and journals (estimated total value US$0.3 million) would be procured through
direct purchase from eligible suppliers after negotiations for the best
discounts. Consultant services would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank. Placement of
fellows based on the selection criteria of participants and procedures which
have been agreed with the Bank, will be arranged by PIU/HRD. Training of
trainers and local training would be arranged by PIU/HERD and procured by AAETE
and LPP. The PIU would contract with AAETE and LPP for the delivery of local
training. A breakdown according to procurement categories is given in
Table 3.
3.9       Draft bidding documents for ICB, master equipment lists indicating
proposed packaging and cost estimates and draft contracts for local training
programs will be reviewed by the Bank. Prior Bank review of proposed contract
awards would be required for all equipment contracts awarded on the basis of
ICB (exceeding US$200,000 equivalent each), estimated to cost about US$1.9



- 32 -
million and representing 76Z of the value of equipment. Other contracts will
be subject to selective post-award review. Terms of reference for consul-
tants, training of trainers programs and annual plans for local training
programs would also be reviewed by the Bank.
Table 3: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Total cost
including
all contin-
Category of expenditure           ICB     LCB      Other /a    NA      gencles /b
Consultants                        -        -         2.5       -           2.5
(2.2)                (2.2)
Overseas Fellowships               -        -         1.9       -           1.9
(1.9)                (1.9)
Training of Trainers               -        -         0.3       -           0.3
(0.3)1               (0.3)
Local Training                     -        -        14.6       -          14.6
(12.0)               (12.0)
Equipment, Vehicles, Books        1.9      0.5        0.5       -           2.9
and Journals                   (1.4)    (0.3)      (0.3)                 (2.0)
Operating Costs                    -         -         -       4.4          4.4
Total                        1.9      0.5       19.8      4.4         26.6
(1-.4)   (0.3)    (Y6.7)    (-3         (18.4)
/a   Other procurement includes:  (i) consultants, local training and training of
trainers; (ii) small equipment items and materials, books and journals
expected to be procured through prudent shopping.
/b   Values in parentheses are estimated disbursements from loan including price
and physical contingencies. The inclusion of physical contingencies
accounts for the discrepancy between these values and the amounts shown in
Table 2.
D. Disbursements
3.10      The proposed loan of US$18.4 million equivalent would be disbursed over
a period of 6-1/4 years. To allow sufficient time for submission of final
withdrawal applications following the Completion Date of December 31, 1993, the
Closing Date would be December 31, 1994. Disbursements would be made on the
basis of (a) 1001 of the costs of consultants, overseas fellowships, training of
trainers program, (b) 1001 of the costs of local training programs excluding
consumable training materials, and (c) 1001 of the foreign expenditures on
imported equipment, books and journals, 951 of local expenditures (exfactory) and
651 of the costs of other locally procured equipment, books and journals.



- 33 -
3.11      The estimated schedule of disbursements (Annex 9) has been based on
the implementation schedule and the disbursement profiles of education proj-
ects in the country and Region modified to reflect a six-and-a-quarter year
disbursement period instead of the average of eight years for pas: projects.
The shorter implementation and disbursement period is warranted by the fact
that: (i) the proposed project involves no civil works and is designed to
support annually budgeted training activities; and (ii) project preparation,
in particular the establishment of PIU/HRD, including the recruitment of
technical assistance and the preparation of training of trainers program, is
at an advanced stage.
3.12      Withdrawal applications would be fully documented except for
expenditures relating to training of trainers, farmer leader training carried
out according to an Annual Work Program and agreed unit costs and contracts
for goods each valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent and for fellowships
and services each valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent for which
reimbursements may be made against certified statements of expenditure
(SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by the PIU and
made available for review by visiting Bank missions. The Bank would review
contracts for training and would disburse against completed training
acceptable to DGE. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications would
be aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank
for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the loan.
3.13      In order to avoid the necessity of prefinancing expenditures which
are reimbursable by the Bank and to simplify and expedite disbursement
administration, the Government would establish a Special Account in Bank
Indonesia to be maintained by the Directorate General of Budget, M0F. The
Special Account would be used for all local currency payments made against all
disbursement categories. The Bank would make an initial deposit equivalent to
an estimated four-months' disbursements (US$0.5 million) for local
expenditures to the Special Account upon loan effectiveness and upon
confirmation of the establishment of the Special Account. The Account would
be replenished every month or when payments reach one-half of the initial
deposit. A monthly statement on the Special Account would be submitted to the
Bank by the Directorate General of Budget, MOF.
E. Reporting and Audit
3.14      In Indonesia, the government ministries and agencies responsible for
project execution are usually also responsible for maintaining project
accounts. It is expected that the government agencies involved in this proj-
ect will be able to maintain satisfactory project accounts. The majority of
audits are conducted by the government Agency for Financial and Development
Control (BPKP) which carries out both financial and Statement of Expenditure
audits. BPKP is technically qualified for the majority of audits it per-
forms. However, the Bank has not been entirely satisfied on the matter of
audit timeliness in the past. BPKP and the Bank have discussed this on a
numier of occasions and BPKP has been making serious and creditable efforts to



- 34 -
improve its performance. While progress remains to be made, it is not
expected that the relatively straightforward requirements of audit under the
project will be difficult for BPKP to meet. At negotiations the Government
provided assurances that suitable accounts, sufficient to clearly identify the
expenditures under the project including SOEs and Special Account, would be
maintained and that these accounts would be audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, and submitted to the Bank within nine months of the
close of each GOI fiscal year. Six months after the Closing Date, the DGE
would submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report (PCR) covering all
project components.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION, AND MANAGEMENT
4.1       The proposed implementation period of the project is 5-1/4 years.
DGE would have overall responsibility for project implementation and for
coordinating the interaction among DGE, AAETE, and LPP.
4.2       Directorate General of Estates.  A Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
would be established within DUE, headed by a full-time Project Manager and
reporting directly to the Director General of Estates. The PIU would be
guided by a Management Board which would include as members the Director
General of Estates (as convener), the Director General of AAETE, the Director
General of AARD, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture, repte-
sentatives from the Ministry of Finance and BAPPENAS, and an Administrative
Secretary. The Management Board would set policies and provide guidelines.
These arrangements would not involve major changes in the existing
institutions in the near term. The HRD technical assistance team would work
from within the PIU and have, as fulltime counterparts, carefully selected
echelon IV staff from concerned DGE Directorates and the Secretariat. The DOE
Directorates with direct involvement with HRD are: Extension, Agribusiness,
Bina Program and the Secretariat. Counterpart staff would work closely with
the technical assistance team and receive advanced HRD training. At project
completion the trained counterpart staff would return to their directorates
thereby bringing HRD capacity to these units. The combined HRD ekills of the
five trained staff would constitute the HRD capacity of the DGE. Post
project, this capacity could be mobilized to address DGE annual training and
staff development programs. Responsibility for mobilizing HRD capacity would
be vested in the Secretary of the DGE under the direction of the DO.
Government has appointed staff to key posts in the PIU and established the
Management Board.
4.3       The PIU would be responsible for the preparation of annual budgets,
maintenance of project accounts, engagement of consultants, trainers, and
other staff, procurement of equipment, and management of approved funds for
all project activities (Chart 1 presents the organizational structure of the
PIU). The PIU HRD group would have three specialized functions--manpower
planning, training needs analysis, and training program coordination and
evaluation. From its position within the PIU, the HRD consultants and
counterpart staff would undertake a program of activities to improve human
resource development awareness and capacity in DOE, strengthen the capability
of subsector training entities to meet subsector training needs, provide a



- 35 -
concentrated program of managerial, supervisory and technical training for
DISBUN and PHU staff in the project's fourteen provinces and support farmer
leader training.
4.4       Agency for Agricultural Education. Training, and Extension.  AAETE
would train tree crop trainers and prcfide the teaching personnel and the
training locations (ISTCs) for a concentrated program of management, supervi-
sory and commodity training aimed at increasing the effectiveness of staff
serving the smallholder producer of rubber, coconut, and coffee. AAETE would
also increasingly meet the inservice training needs of DGE staff as the impact
of the HRD group enables DGE to articulate its training needs more clearly.
The PIU would contract with AAETE to provide training courses on an annual
basis. AAETE has had previous experience with contracts for training in the
case of the SRDP I project.
4.5       The Estates Training Institute.  LPP would work closely with AAETE
to plan and implement a management/supervisory training package for staff of
DISBUN and PMUs. It would train about 56 subject matter specialist (SMS)
level staff to implement the NES/PIR program of farmer leader training. It
would also plan and implement, with the aid of consultants, a program of fi-
nancial management training for staff of PTPs and private estates. LPP would
also serve as an in-service training locus for specific DGE training needs.
4.6       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would be closely monitored
using as a guideline the list of indicators in Annex 10. A series of reports
covering trainee progress, submission o' consultants' recommendations, prepar-
ation of case studies, curriculum design and course outcome would provide an
ongoing evaluation process which would be scrutinized by the Management Board
and seen on a day-to-day basis by the Director General of Estates. The Bank
would receive semiannual progress reports covering all aspects of project
implementation and a project mid-term review would be undertaken in November
1991. The PCR would assess overall performance of staff trained during the
project (impact evaluation) through supervisors' ratings of trainees' ability
to satisfactorily complete key tasks after undergoing training.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1       Benefits.  The main benefits would be:  (a) increased production of
key export crops by smallholders ai a result of more effective transmission of
improved husbandry techniques by trained extension staff and farmer leaders;
(b) increased capacity of the DGE to manage human resources planning and
development through the provision of HRD training for staff of the
Directorates; (c) more effactive and increased training capacity at the
sectoral training institutions (AAMETE and LPP) which would have an additional
50 tree crop specialized trainers at the ISTCs, 7 master trainers attached to
the lead ISTCs and to NATI, Ciawi, and 3 PhD, 7 master's degrees and 12 short
course participants from LPP; (d) more effective operations by the public
sector estates, PTPs, for which financial management courses would be made
available; (e) improved managerial and technical backstopping of field staff
by DCE staff who would have participated in 15 master's degree programs and 30



- 36 -
specially designed short courses; and (f) more effective support for rubber,
coconut and coffee smallholders by DISBUW and PHU staff 6,000 of whom would
have completed a comprehensive training program summarized below:
PMU Extension workers                 2,350
PMU Supervisors                       1,260
PMU Technical Assistant Managers        420
PMU Managers                          1,260
DISBUN Staff                            670
Total trainees                   6,000 (rounded)
No negative environmental impact is foreseen as most of the extension advice
would focus on low cost improved practices rather than on high input usage.
5.2       Risks.  There are no major risks associated with the project
although GOI budget problems are expected to continue with the sustained low
price of oil. Organizationally the project depends on considerable coordin-
ation between participating agencies and there is an element of risk that weak
coordination could slow project implementation and impact. Both risks have
been carefully evaluated and addressed in project design.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       At negotiations the following items were reviewed and agreed:
(a) (i) a short list of firms to supply HRD and MIS expertise and (ii)
draft contracts for technical assistance (para. 2.12);
(b)  list of staff to participate in the training program in the various
directorates of the DGE, their fields of specialization, and
proposed schedules for departure for overseas training programs, and
arrangements for language training and placement (para. 2.13);
(c)  selected trainee trainers (50) and a draft training curriculum for
the training of trainers, including proposals for necessary field
visits (para. 2.18);
(d)  the 1988/89 DIP for the project-financed activities agreed with the
Bank for the first year (para. 3.7); and
(e)  details of the establishment of the PlUt selection of a full-time
Project Manager and identities of PIU and HRD counterpart staff
(para. 4.2);



- 37 -
6.2       At negotiations the Government provided assurances that:
(a) detailed plans for annual DGE-wide HRD activities other than
training which would become part of the normal operations of the DGE
would be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1990 (para. 2.8);
(b) annual training programs, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
submitted to the Bank by December 31 of each year starting in 1988,
and implemented thereafter (para. 2.35);
(c) an annual budget would be prepared in consultation with the Bank and
reviewed together with the training programs by December 31, each
year (para. 3.7); and
(d) suitable accounts, sufficient to clearly identify the expenditures
under the project, would be maintained and that these accounts would
be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of each GOI
fiscal year (para. 3.14).
6.3       Subject to the above conditions, the project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$18.4 million equivalent to the Republic
of Indonesia repayable over 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at
the standard variable rate.



- 38 -
gWEAWSAIIVU  £99101  INDICtOIS11
cur"" ~    ~     ~     .ca~   S  £8
C      lPPt         AS PISP31       SZPDIUUS   11330C1 P3130AV P,U1AE?PT ,4 PR              PI1MARI    SaIl 60        13001041    aIiNaM   mm
suiS  PaW. CAPtA  rEON? @1 IOWL 003130  £U14804110Ut SAIl                   ftuL. 8cS05.,    sTUSIIP I SCAUCOS  PROM  1? U   mmii.   811U15  &$MAL.
is"* MILLS. CUS$)   naouiD Um  0093II5U           P1   see  11    (2)    "?tlo   dCii           PU        As PIRCU   51030481   RAIlo         P          SAU
(1979) (1919)    IuCAtION  UPUOIu3                (2)        (1976)   (2)         (Z)     134033   017/CAPIT         (2)        (2)     930033        (2)
I(1)       (2)  1   (3)            ()            ()           ()        ()        ()        ()          (0            I)         (2          1)      (4
AUSTALI            au    14.6b  8,870       6.3'         14.6        -          -      -         03       100         21        -                                            IC."
CAANA              SI    23.7b  9,6906    7.70           £8.56?     30'? 34'? 130?   996        IO       too         2£         19*96,       too          92'       to       u2.601
COIMAXT P.R.       79    61.2  12.200       4.6          9.90       -    -             96b       ge       loom       -          -            343          940                12.100
NS~~T11hRUMUS  79    14.0  10.490      7.9          9.1        20   is   2s       996?      94        99         1         £9.3          992                   13       12.40
NEW. ZEALAND0      so      S.b  6.0.1b    9.9v           13.4       37   it   is       gb       100       100        24         £1.6         100          82        39       25.80'0
51001              i9      8.3  12.290      9.0         18.2        3£   £0   10       *,         9       100         I8'       19.9         100          792       low7    36.900
£41333 AISICA
i0SMI           83      1.06    9206    6.0           22.0       4134  22           40       £00        77         32        10.0          40          20       .21        1.80
Sssuuo             81      6.2     235      Z.8br       £9.0        43   28   27       21        29'       is        37         20.2          £2           3'       £7        1.00
CaguDuoS           64      0.4b    3619    3.6w         28.0        4929  22           49        76       40         39         -             49          36        28       0.60
OilsouTi           84      0.4     480      3.0         £1.9        7326s...    10               42       66         40        67.0           40          £0        19       0.60
37131051           8s    43.0       It0     3.69         9.9        SS   28   II       39        3         300       63         19.3          930         14        44       0.90
KUTA          82    17.4b    420o    S.83gb        20.16b      69   16   1£I    48b        113        S8         36        £4.4          39          16        26       -
LIsoTI             62      t.4b    4396    9.9          56.9        38   32   26       936      t11*      41         48          9.6          46          21        21       1.30
IIAOACAJCAI        77      6.1      330     4.92        £4.0        13  2819           s0        ,460     33         s9b        8.0           38          14       23        3.107b
'SALAMt            8t      6.1b    2s0b    3.9          11.4        i8   14   25       296      62        23         65          9.6          12           4       21        0.40
Nhuitttus     83      t.0b  1.110b    4.3          14.0        46   36    7       80b       93        72        23         13.0         t00          s0        U        1.00
92WA10A            63      59b9   270b    3.6           27.4        7t1£6   IS         3ib      69        20         40        16.0            9           5        6        0.40
SZYCM3LL2S         79      0.6   1.770      S.9         22.4'       340  330  10       -         -                   29        -              -                     -        -
SONALtA            6£      4.5      240     1.9         I0.9        Sob  446b  *6    Sob         226      sob        396        9.06          406         £26      22        3.00
SUDAN              80    lq.2b    380       3.0         -           86   39  ...    32          5l£x      G6         34         I.4          44           36       56       ..
SVAZtLAID          63      0.7b    94gb    3.496        20.4        91I  34   Is      46b       9         so9        SI        £1.0          9629                  I8        3.00
TAIIAtA            so    16.        260     9.9         17.7        41   £0   £6       796      gb        W7         43        55.0           196          3       2we       0.30
UGANDA             So    12.66    3006    -             £6.1'       236376b206         48        94'      6£          4        -              17          9        23        0.40
ZAIRE              6£    29.86      z5gb    7.7         26.4        -    -    £0       S46      76        29         30        21.0          40          to        28        2.00
ZAMBIA             80      S.7b    34662    4.59        11.£        4823  22           446      99         o8        48        £2.9          £9          16         2         .390
ZimiASU            SI      7*7b    700b    9.1          19.9        62  32      6      446      90        99         39        20.0          89          Is        23       0."0
SW      Anc,        I 79   34b    )job    6.9'          35.0        43   21    S    £16          42        30        46         14.0          30          It       43        5.007
80514A             63      6.9      2106    2.1'        21.7        43   I9   28       9         16        Zs        9?        '4.1           £6           3       24       0.0.O
CAMERUOON          64    10.0       8l06    3.1         -           3338s28           20         89        496        so        -             -           23       38        2.70
C.A.R.             86      2.66    2606    3.807        24.707      49   16   24    -            79        49        6907       to            -           t6       67        1.400
CRAP               76      4.4      £20     2.4b"7       21.1        --        -£     is         297       -          7         -             -            3?      21       0.207,
conco              i8      1.9      6I0     9.avy        27.707                        -         -                    9467y                   30                   4367      40007
1Q0AT. OUINA       89      Q.1b    37gb    .*.            3.8       417   24          job20      53        £0        so          9.2          40         i9        1707     -
CAWN          77      0.6  3,420        3.767        8.4?          -    -       -    -                          4467y      -             -           -        I3967     2.800
GAMBIA4            77      0.6      220      13.)         6.S6      44   29*   Go   10b          Gobi      we0       2767       44.7w         40          12627    I?       -
CI3ANA             76    1£.)       400     4.07         19.96      -    -     -      -          73b07    -          2767       --            -           36627    it       -
auto"11            79      9.3      2909    4.609        -          290 s*2802802                34        36         38        20.009        8S          16       29       7.006
1:0*1 OXO          83      9.3b    720      7.3         42.8        St   40    9    39'?         72       79         37        29.0          49          22"e    30         1.86
LIBERIA4           so      1.9      920     4.6          19.6       43   23   24    30           92        32        35         30.0          76         22        20       2.90
3151.              8I      I.gb    190      4.2'        25.70       36   21   It    10           20        60        44          s1.7         66           1       it       0."0"
MAURIT1ANI14       78      1.66    3206    9.9           £6.9       33   43   29    £76          32       80         44         92.0          30          9        29       0.37
tan3               84     9.2      100      2.8         21.0        403928     14               29        20         36        41.0          37           6       28       0.90
11103t1            83    93.66    7606    7.47          16.0        -      - 13    36            i3        70        36         £99472                            30        2.00
S1310AL            84      6.4      380     9.0b        24.0        466  396  1       28         92        S9        48         26.0          19'        16'      24       2.209
StemA  £101        77      3.4      I5S0    4.0b         14.06      -                 g9t6       373       -         39         29.Qb        64          11'      52       0.067w
TOOD               78      2.4      400     6.992       24.94       30  8' 21'   t8              74        40        3467       16.0         92          33627    Gob       t.406
LATIN AHUC   N   1   A1W
ARMINTIA           78      7.3 .210         2.7          10.9       43  10 3180   936            8         Si9       I7         -            of          13        8      JI.00
85145MB       7~~~9 0.2   2.770        5.?         M9.         363651 i          936        9        97         24        .-            97          79       is      -
SAESAIO            76      0.2   2.680      8.9         22.10       434   t,  160   996         £007       99a       277        19.9'        99'         78       207     -
805.VtA            so      9.4      990o    AMY0         30.90.    --- 6             3           747      -          20        -              -£7                 -       3.0
hAUL               79   116.9   1.770        3.            .         £    - 5          6         70                    3?       4*96         45           97      £0      33,460
CelLs              74    10.9   1.890        3.26?       13.06         -       -      -         119627    -          3467       -            -           9962     2067    u.WSp
COLOMBIA           so    26.76  1,180b    3.3           25.0         is   20    o    SO6         is        36         31        6.6          -          47        10      10.0307
COSA RtcA          so      2.26  1.810b    8.4           31.1       40   27   33    90           93        77        33         S.91         77         40        27       40
cum                7       9.8      -       8.0         £1.0         ----           94          11267    96          186       -             IS75'                    19  19.026
DOMIICAN SPF.    so        9.3   1,030      2,9         33.0        SO   21ot ~                  so        3£        9          3.2          9.30                 33      38.00
iCUtAPO            so      8.46  1,110      *.0P        36.7        43   31   16    8£1         £09       -          36        12.6    6                47        34      29.9,
3L SALWADO         77      4.4      640     3.467       23.167      64    8   27    62           82657    32         SO        -             41         26b27    2767      7.98o7
051A21s1A           78     4.8   1.010       Wer0        12.6b      -    -    -       -          46.7y    -          3567      -                        59607r   for7    S.90
011101             76      0.8      630     6.t67        £3.86?     -    -    -       -          "bar7    -          3267      -             -          9960     -         3.0861
SSAITt             80      9.06    230      3.4',        7.90       69    9    6    236          so       20         41        39.0          620         40      It       0.611
11010030           78      3.6      920     3.96?       14.3107    620  190  £9'  90             89607    30         4167      £2.6'         460        332      3,        mo08
JAMAICA            80      2.1   1.110      6.5         13.7        37  4320          90        9          8         40         2.3         9St5                 25       4.06
KiULCO             so    69.9   1.880       4.7         17.0'       463919I    92                         Si93       4          9.9          6          16       It      a0.36
NIC08A014          i8      2.66    Glob    3.060        14.06                         go6       3962t    24          37        -            .-          2460     lb      -
PAN"M              i8      1.66  I,5906    9,5607       21.867      42'  £30  £3    82          95b7      -          2567      55.6         S"a         ¶067     2767    20.4867
POACOAI&           79      3.0   1,140      1.40        14.2        42   17   2  084            613       32         as          *3t1       76          it       Is       ). t0
PUSSo              so    16.6  I.0100       3.6         £4.3        93  19 9o    so             83        96         39         9.S          9                   la 2    54.407
TRINIDAD 0 108.   77       5.1   3.910      4.86?        ::*by      48   32   io    "            Be       91         30        30.9?        49          62       24        -
3339004            i8      2.93..300        2.S          94b           -          -9 46         109k      -          346                    -           Gibe     -       57.880
733312u5.A         78    14.4 3.440         9.17         18.96b63                               54660      -         2 -                    -           is60     I7 I     1.107



IeuWAAn SOI3CATIoN 3twc^AS                                                            ANNEX  I
IS.eber 33  39"1                                                    lage 2
- 39 -
mu-m
arZVUOiUR    30334110                          CUEP1.t106           ZCURUIT
ON ZVOCATl06  61091631       AOULT             SATSFR U03           WI  call'  PUoUION
06  691t             As MM,030      WU0Ot?U       LItEACY 961t34   alKME       PRIER   PMMKR        IA?' MMO  63C1016? 6RDO1? NI06
MMS  VWP. CAfMI  PUlSe?  W  TOTAL CUM"3*3 AUflrATUO ¶0: flAT1    6N603L. 5C13603            5111Wrs uWGc.eyOu   MI3'AMI VD   MI3A..   519910?   63130.3.
128*HILLS.. (llil)   09OSYOO 10  OOWCR?    FMI  SIC  Ot    (V)   PATIO   CYLOt              P3       AS PRaWN? 58106046    RATIO        PU        RTIO
(3979) (1979)   EUcAUtoo  SIUDIV                (2)       (3976)   (2)        (2)     IRACRI  ORPICAPE?A        (S)        CU)    13405u       CS)
(I)  (2)  (3)        (4)         ~~~~        ~ ~~(5)  (6) 1 (7)   (6)       (9)        (10)        (1I)        (32)      (I))    (14)
IA AP  in     ob    3106    3.1          7.1       36   40   22      77b       it       62         25        8,0          65         i5        II       4.600
toomtit       $I   150.56    530      2.1         9.3        T0   24    6      33b      99                  37        31.0         74          27       26        3.70
KOIU         ~63        39I)63*36b    7.1'       20.6        34343SI           99       9         Is9       43        19.0         6?          73       22        4.00
MAIATSI61         86    1..1b  1.640  6  .?           14.)        38   40   22      706     Its       96         32        14.0         69          72       22       4.00
PeA33 N.C.        63      3.00    820     5.4         M9.        40   I7  22                 Go6       7)        3ill     35.0          35         133"      27'      1.00
PNtLlPPIN3        79    46.5b6 40~  2.6 1o 4.0                   64   36   -        St,      64       45         31I       7.3          19         55        38      23.00
sM*o~             s0      2.4   4.420     2.7          6.7        39   40   14     63        92       62         3 1       S.6          96         Si        22       6.00
SOLO"   Ms~.      S2      0.2b    440     6.610       39.0b      4 1   34   20    I15        IS       60         21       10.3~         40         20        t6       2.30
THAILAND      *     49.0b    500b    3.4         20.3        59   14   10      46b    101        66         23        9.3'         44         46        t6       4.00
VANUATU           86      06 -b            8.3        23.$       61   271    4      3 3     11I       40        24        31.0         25          20        16       2.00
643.A0353    ~~79    92.3 9b          M.1         M0l"7      SI   I7   30      3        637      -          53        5.6          -           14       23       1.4)
RiETI             s0      1.2      s0      3.6        33t.0                         30 t     I32      -         -         .-           -           -        -        -
INDIA             77 639.4        230     2.97         9.90       -     -          38        79'      -         43        -            -           26'      -         8.10'?
336983            82    15.06    3306    3.4         -           -   - -            15       70       -          is       -             -          23        23       3.70'
PAKISTAN          62    6?.3b    3606    2.0           7.0        38  20  24       22        s0       43         10        5.9         $4          23        is       1.00
£06_6 .16. LS  _6 .0... A_IC
AIQIANs"tA     I 7    15.5        -        1.7         3.?        47   39   is      12       3367     69         3ib      -            62           6        2267     1.00?
43.0112           79    36.3   3.770       3.6'       Il.)       34'k 26' )14    35          637      45'        37        7.0?        S"          297       26       3.70oy
60,19?            62    43.)4    410'   4.4'           ?.9        its  33' 244    44         731      we~        34'       9.44        63'         430       Igo     37.00
CR381              76     9.3   4.140      2.4'0      10.6b       3?  26   231      -        9767     -          296       8.2?        -           79b2      Il6y    11.8067
1588              I9    36.9      -       5.?AT       141.47     -    -    -       50       103"      -          32'      .-           -            4"a     244       4.90S7
IRAQ              79    12.4   2.710      4.30Y        6.981              -                 3007too   -         26        -            -           4387     294       9.30'y
3U3.hD            f3      3*4b 4,440      4. Jay      13.6'?      -    -           96        93       54        29        -            90          63       34       33.00
30868             63      3.2   3.420b    4.9w        30.2        i9  44   Is      70b       94'      as         32       1S.3 I-                  49'      38        6.90
MANAOR            79  2.3   -    -                    16.6"?7  ----    -                      6'   -            It    -                 -          46'    -    27.60'?
1620C0            64    21.511   470b64.00            22.9        38   43   19     is        SI*       9         31       15.1         -           14'      38        0.9of
OHM4              S5      1.1b6 4"490      3.2        12.7"       -     -     -    306?      71"8    434         25'      -            90          II'      14'
P0200663          66    10.26  1.9106    4.6          13.5       s0   26   33      so       t25       70         Is       36.9          64         35       36       6.00
WHAN431           76    22.3   2.300       3.967       6.27      -    -    -       96       1046b     -          336      -            96          6461     336      t0.406?
SPAtN             74    37.   4.920       2.37y       34.67      -    -    -       -        9gb7      -         396       -            -           6767     -       24.1067
t(RIA             76      6.6   1.170     4.4p        30.3       39   25   26      III      6767      so        356       -            44          4i67     236      13.60
TUNISIA           79      6.4   l.130      7.09       19.0,      42   39  36  ~6b           100'      80        396       32.6         30          30'      30       4.00
TUtu.             83      47.5  1.230      3.)        34.2       so   22   24      736      330       7?        33        4.0          55          26       11       6 .00
16363.3.          64      9.3b    Slob    7.9P        17.7       80   20   It      21s      35        26        St        27.8         s0           9       20        1.80
VDGUI P.0..       62      2.06    4206    7.8          9.7       63'   4~  so    Si         43        14        25        23.0'        44          37       30       2.30
am     !; =Costres                       64              93       70  69 ?         63 $      92       48         95       45            is         93        s6      63
Ruge:                                    (3.4-         (3.7-  C23-  (6-  (5-    (6-       (32-     (32-        (37-     (3.4-        CIO-        (3-       (6-     (.0.3-
M0.0          54,33  94)   46)  33)    993       339)     99)         77)      67.0)         100)       64)      46)      29.0)
quarti.ba: Upper:                         5.6          23.7      St   36   22     63        96       60         43       20           67          47        24      33.0
34.41..:                      4.0           36.3     43   28   19      53       83        43        35        11           45          26       22        S.7
taver:                        3.0           13.0     3623313    25              80        is        26        9            40         34        39        1.3
QuartIle Dowlattee:                       3.3           5.4    6.5  7.5  4.5   26.0       39.0     22.5        7.0       .6         23.5        16.5                 5.0
No.4:                                     4.4          17.0      462616I          53        76       59         38       16           62          31       21        6.9
Sg.ad"4.rdoevat3a:                        1.9           6.It7     i 2 to0   7      9        27       24         l3       33            2?         23         7       7.4
11.61*:                                   4.0          36.0      432639t           Si       6)       61         is       13           65          24       22        1.7
0DAM6 U1 AVAAh                                            A' 0       PDAM    MM   RA1 "aV                 S 2  11161TIt  Of 2WCAT7O6 (3t3 ONLY
AOtQB NIL 81   t50O.5bA                                   6   M 2.1    6  1I0?          8  72bn*8         T 1  PM. AMI STAIR   2566  OLt
ttO18 82S0A3                                                   n 1  Cus=   M6100.                              V * 113G £199803 9.     ONLY
t'6t16  PIST-Tt1t 19      5     6                              5 - O3? UROLI.U         PATtO                   I *  CJ *556- tA9 O     55 61       2.0
V 8  C66  6626. N 0 t t *   82O 0   11   8           UNBI) S22 8R0
p * O
603361t6        Cblume  I3 40  2:  WoO-d                        196 4t     of  tOatatos mleter                 21 ftd  dest1S1e.
Columa 3   to 14   World teamt S6scate 04tot "t"to". Oouen         .6.4a  0
a*dioc the 0.0-  .   St 8tlect"I  learbo2..
Coppeattvoa ducattem, Ota S". ustefl to thwevawlmattos .of venous oacttoe Smyote   ad  meltpals at retatvoN  stem  at
eductontal.e devl"eoat bet...m wart.w ecoatitee.  Uou,er. .4 the beets of t3. paemat data. eram-aat"ds  eMpatime
sta,*14 t he  pprotbed witt grot ""aton.  fists presented to ttm aboua  bla bi   m   bseeott.1844.  1argety by 6mk a3.toa
tim  $overamant .ur.e"; OAm  iloder are statf .4,atm.47 or"St fom hoe...  atfotet  haey lee  aide t  etaa"dterda
8UtCtttom          t9. within   at..  o 9h0ck tdo ateoraOy of                                                    11 data.   .n8ete4. mob dat  we Stitt 3orfeOt to
7aa  ropee a"  tihe    ti wonklug to toprove th.4  roMatw.1  e  the 1.2  tt of ita o,eatoa  -o-k.  Io t--
of t1toD  date. t0  folsta_ s q-ttc.ttoo d,ld be -a- to a wl6
(I)    Rductoe  a detee  in the table 1,cledea all educottoo .__ tr9tetag. 10t- f1rmtl   21 am  7 l.
(23 t  Prive.   .doattm  roto  to edottos St tim  iteat ea. ad 'acorp  *iuoetl, rator. to all w5eeUtloU
at the  *1*Ma    lee  iO5adlue  of t15.    (4.8, ge1 rai. technIcal.  18rt-ulItU tt).
(; )   -Lterm    ratn  (coo. 8) are oft. obtalsom t.ttCo            caeo I1S . a to       Y coett  to I*8' ant only
C attlUCta.a .6  *t tO d        2bIfel tt mY welter deftaitte  of 11t1 25 2  - '. boa  followed _       *         ._4,eaa 17.
(4)  IPe4te mpeWdttt 1 to  wcattta  CSale. 4-dad Srfter ts to a1 capital  SOrecroen  e101a  t- s  devoted to
ed"Moete  by pblia sod  mwmt-pebhtc ugoodbs.
(5)    Rorellmat rattes  (Sola. 7* 12.6  34) retfe  to echool  ew  -4  eve the par--atese of U11S61le chti9lO
aarolled 1ul--tism to the aprprwt}e School. sbito So   rIte by level.  That sr  ot too   bjoet to a 1t4l
JOttD   oerrort t81    d2 veloptog emutrt.4 Saese to ver0t.tei9   to tim  aara8 of beste dot  6t.8..
so-opeete popeatte  NW    rlaot.).  -arolbmet f-pra 1r8q.b s                  aft h  hr So - ti_ max_t 41
*t ate  aet 8olI  to Sohol.  Over-SWb  otute 1     S"  be tSeoe  to thm  figbrO  a2          10a      1          59lat  t55 tatto..



- 40 -
0-                         AMNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Directorate General of Estates
General
1.        The DGE is responsible for the formulation of national policies,
planning and coordination at macro level, provision of technical guidance, and
monitoring the progress of estate crop subsector developments, as well as
planning and executing special projects in support of smallholder develop-
ment. It consists of a Secrztariat and six Directorates: Program Develop-
ment; Production Development; Rehabilitation and Expansion; Agribusiness;
Processing and Marketing; Plant Protection; and Extension.  Within DGE, a
special team (Team Khusus) assists in planning and monitoring the implementa-
tion of all Nucleus Estate and Smallholder (NES) projects, both externally and
domestically financed.
2.        The estate crops service at provincial level, DISBUM I, and at
district (Kabupaten) level, DISBUN II, handles all matters relating to estate
crops development at these levels. DISBUN staff are under the control of the
provincial govenor, but DGE provides technical guidance for their activities.
Secretariat
3.        The Secretariat is divided into various subdivisions:  Personnel,
Finance, Operations, Law and Administration. Of major concern are the quali-
fications of the personnel, the overlapping of data collection and the
coordination with the Directorate of Programme Development. This concern
particularly applies to the Personnel and Finance Divisions which do not
provide enough support for management in regard to decision-making and in the
development of alternative strategies and plans. Overall strengthening is
needed, in particular for financial, personnel and data processing functions
through improvements in staff, systems and procedures, management and
resources (i.e., equipment, budgets, etc.).
Directorate of Program Development (Direktorat Bina Program)
4.        The main tasks of the Directorate are identification, preparation
and evaluation of projects. There are five subdirectorates:
-    Data and Statistics
-    Identification and Formulation of Sectoral Programs and Projects
-    Program and Project Budget Planning
-    Monitoring and Evaluation of Sectoral Programs and Projects



- 41 -
ANEX 2
Page 2
-    Foreign Assisted Programs and Projects.
Directorate of Production Development (Direktorat Bina Produski Pezkebunan)
5.        The Directorate oi Production Development consists of four
subdirectorates: Seeds, Production Techniques I (perennial crops), Production
Techniques II (annual crops), and Mechanization.
Directorate of Agribusiness (Direktorat Bina Usaha Petani Perkebunan Dan
Pengulahan iasil Perkebunan)
l
6.        This directorate is presently divided into a number of
subdirectoratess
-    Resources development
-    Capital development
-    Agribusiness
-    Processing
-    Marketing Information
Directorate of Rehabilitation and Expansion (Direktorat Rehabilitasi Dan
Perluasan)
7.        This directorate has had responsibility for guiding and supervising
the PRPTE program but may well include in its future set of responsibilities
other PMU expansion and rehabilitation projects. The subdirectorates are:
-    Seed preparation
-    Land stabilization
-    Estate Operation Guidance
-    Personnel and facilities
-    Operational techniques
Directorate of Plant Protection (Direktorat Perlindung An Tau)
8.        This directorate has been recently reorganized into a structure
including the following five subdirectorates:
-    Monitoring and forecasting
-    Resources and facilities
-    Pest control



INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Directorate-General of Estates
Cena Level                                      iL
smituruc                                                                                                      Non-trckaoTI
I                                                                               II,                                                I;W
Director-                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial
I                                       |                                         - __IIL__-------
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CGAq ofD
I                                                                      - _ _ - _ 4 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _… _ -    - _ - . __ _ - - .
I~~~~~ ll                                                                                                    I 
i_                                                                                               SRD        ScIW *_P3RSl .B    #i__.
Prowc"  RehPtEf5                    P4XUw         PlanP
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIG
I ~~~~~PMP2 4IN 1I
Fiel Offices                                                                              Provincia    Provincial
Offic     offce                     DO  2
PMU                                                              NSPC         M          M
pewvln and Contrd
- --  - -Guidance don     Coordlnoon                                                                                     Wodd 3anlc-303:i



INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Directorates of DGE
Dieco,Gn.a of EIft
Secretdrk1
Petionnel       Finanxia       Reukt            Operaftio      A&nIisraion
Wslon           OM4slon       Pegiafon          DMslon           OsO
Dkecftr~~~~~~ate of Rogs iekxl  fRhabfftcfioni   Directorate of Aodbus#iess  Directorate of Productlon   Detrt fDetrt  fBoso
SubDIrecktofat 01        &b0Orectorole or 1uHrcoaeO                              u>1elrl  fMnfrT   dSbtcoaeO
Danaod Skafistics~       Seed PpatinjEstate Busineee$Foeossrje  doso
FSub-Dlectorate of
Stobillz~~       Resource DvlprdCMoinTcvle                                rtcinFcNlsNnxic xeso
Sub Dkectorat 01  1uOefoceo                           Sub-DIectorate ot          &A>irctorole 01                         O              Sub-DIectorate of
I    ____Gukw _o                    Developrr*0                                                                     and Equonmet
Sub-DIectorate of
Moelwiong andSuDrcoteOSu-etot o                                                  u telreSuOebteO                                         )etol f
Sub-DIectorote 01Sbflelrl  fSbOotrA  fSbkcoct  fWo                                                                                      u0rcoaeo
Arg~nWme andntrolc
worm Bank-40723



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
CHART 3
3a. r 1   7  t  I
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3LI                            'Ii
LC   L  i        ;1 l#S Cto



INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Example of a PTPIOrganizational Structure
Boad of
Board of Dfredos ConsV of
Mo*a&  DIecOr-Drector Sabs
Direct Po _dtkn-Dkmcor
GeneRf AUOf.a
1
Commewcial DepotffWd metoI ceu   F=to'iy                                          Technical Staff                   dmkist32Saf
FiWd SW ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ol B,-373



- 46-                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DGE Training Needs
1.        Manpower shortcomings in terms of numbers and skil)s have been
documented as serious constraints to subsector development.-
2.        The DGE created a Manpower Development Preparation Team to collect
and assemble data for the Tree Crop Human Resoturce Development Project. The
team undertook a survey of the training needs of the estate crops subsector in
order to confirm and quantify the findings of the reports cited earlier.
Questionnaire were administered and field interviews conducted with six
categories of respondents selected as a stratified random sample from DISBUN,
PRPTE (?MUs), P.4 (Estate Crops upgrading project), P3DT (special projects in
transmigration areas), the PTPs and private estates. The categories included
senior managers, junior managers, supervisors, extension workers, support
staff and farmer leaders.
3.        Results of the training needs analysis showed significant
deficiencies in all aspects of the wide range of tasks surveyed, indicating
and across-the-board need for skill reinforcement.
4.        Senior managers of large commercial estates, both private and state-
owned, needed reinforcement in the field of product marketing and forecasting
(mostly rubber, palm oil and coconut oil). Significantly, most of them noted
that training in management was required. Private estate managers were also
weak on audit, and on field production and primary processing techniques.
Senior managers of DISBUN and of field projects were deficient in modern
management techniques and in the wide aspects of rural community develop-
ment. Field project managers also lacked skills in financial control and
financial management.
5.        Junior managers of estates in general were deficient in personnel
managemeat, management information systems, overall production, planning,
management and control, as well as in the execution of training. PTP managers
needed skills in village activities and rural services, associated with the
growing NES/PIR program involving settler outgrowers. Those of private
estates additionally lacked competence in modern management techniques and
product marketing. Significantly, few PTP managers were weak in field
production (e.g., nurseries, planting, weed control, etc.) which is the con-
ventional strength of PTPs. Junior managers in DISBUN and field projects
reported deficiencies in production management, management information
1/   Indonesia - Assistance to Tree Subcrop Investment Planning, TCP/INS/2311,
FAO, and Indonesia - the Major Tree Crops:  A Sector Review, World Bank,
1985.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
systems, and in training management. Those in field projects needed
reinforcement in smallholder operations and extension skills, farmers group
communications, cooperatives, and farming practices.
6.        For extension and estate supervisors, the outstanding gaps were in
modern management techniques, training, agricultural equipment, extension aids
and cooperatives. PTP supervisors stressed nursery techniques and rural
community extension in connection with NES/PIR projects, while private estate
supervisors were weak in personnel supervision and field harvesting.
7.        Extension workers of the three DGE field projects were weak in land
mapping, soils, crop protection, cooperative extension, programming of field
work, and extension aids.
8.        Farmer leaders were deficient in two broad areas namely, commodity
technology and the formation and management of farmers groups. Within these
broad categories a number of specific topics requiring attention were
identified.
9.        The survey also noted accounting, filing, drafting and reporting
deficiencies in support staff.
10.       The DGE Manpower Development Preparation Team report indicated that
GOI's priority was for training existing manpower which was quantified as
follows:
Managerial staff                          3,195
Supervisors                               4,258
Extension staff                           9,325
Support (technical) staff                 6,120
Farmer leaders                           17,500
Total                               40,398
11.       The proposed Tree Crop Human Resource Development Project would
increase subsector capacity to meet some of the training needs identified in
the survey. Emphasis would be on the provision of training for those staff
working with smallholders and for farmer leaders.



- 48 -
AMElE 3
ZUDOtESIA
TREE CROPS HUNhI RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Staf of DGE. DISBUN, PMUs, PTPs and Private Estates
Sesior   Junlor   Super-  Extension  Rank &  Total by
Entity/classification                 manager  manager  visor       worker    file   category
DOE
Technical                                40      105       -           -      357       502
Administrative                           11       29       -           -       5S0      590
DISBUN
Technical                               355    1,041       -           -    3,116    4,512
Administrative                          21       116       -           -    4,517    4,654
PMU Projects
Techidcal                                89    1,034   2,375       5,954    1,814   11,266
Administrative                          20       116   1,569           -    4,008    5,713
Total - ly Classification and
Category
Technical                               484    2,180   2,375       5,954    5,287   16,280
Administrative                          52       261   1,569           -    9,075   10,957
Total - All DGE, DISIUN, PHU        536    2.441   3.944        5.954   14.362   2/.237
PTP.                                      966    3,777   2,106      11,465    2,123   20,437
Private estates /c                      1,705    5,550   3,216       1,823    3,217   15,511
Total - All Estates /d            2.671    9.327   5.322      13.288    5.340   35.948
Subsector Totals by Staff
Category                        3,207   11.768   9.266       19,242   19,702   63.185
la  Indonesia:  Estate Crops Manpower Development Project Preparation Report FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program, February 1986.
/b Includes Team Khusus and P2DT.
7c- Staff only. Labor categories (nonstaff) are not included except field foremen who are
classified generally in labor categories. In 1985, there were about 360,000 permanent
workers and approximately 420,000 casual/seasonal laborers.
Id Extrapolated from data provided by 17 PTPs/PNPs with estimated totals given by the
Bureau for State-Owned Enterprises, BTU/BUMN.



-49 -                                     ASEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HBMAN RESOURCE DMELOPMEN? PROJECT
Total Personnel Re"uirements by Bnd of Repelita V (199W-
DGE. DISBUN. PMUs, PTPs and Private Estates lb
(Number)
Senior    Junior    Super-   Extension   Rank &
Entity                            manager  manager   vlsor      worker       file     Total
DGE,/c DISBUN, PMU projects
Technical                          620     2,990     4,270     9,4701±   6,760    24,110
Administrative                      70       360     2,490         -      13,210    16,130
Subtotal                        690     3,350     6.760     9.470      19.970    40.240
PTPs and private estates           3,740    12,160     7,530    24,900      15,270    63,600
Subsector Total              4.430    15,510    14,290    34,370       35.240   103.840
/a  Estimated on projected Rapelita V planting targets, which are translated Into equiva-
lent staff requirements on the basis of the manpower/land unit ratios used In the
preparation of.the World Bank Tree Crop Sector Review.
b Staff only. Labor categories (nonstaff) are not included except fleld foremen who are
classified generally as labor. In 1985, there were about 360,000 permanent workers
and approximately 420,000 casual/seasonal laborers.
c Includes Team Rhusua.
/d  In addition, about 10,000 estate crops PPLs to be recruited by BIMAS.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Yabl=e3
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ISTCs in Project Provinces
Classroom    Laboratory    Workshop    Dormitory
Capa-        Capa-         Capa-        Capa-
Institution                   No.  city    No.  city    No.  city    No.  city
ISTC Saree, Aceh                2    60      2    60       2    60      2    60
ISTC Medan North Sumatra        2    60      2    60       2    60      2    60
ISTC Riau                       2    60      2    60       2    60      2    60
ISTC Lubuk Ruso, Jambi          2    60      2    60       2    60      2    60
ISTC South Sumatra              2    60      2    60       2    60      2    60
ISTC Bengkulu /a
ISTC Lampung i-a
ISTC West Kalimantan            1    60      1    60       1    60      1    60
ISTC North Sulawesi /a
ISTC Central Sulawesi /a
ISTC South Sulawesi             4   120      2   120       2   120      3   150
ISTC Maluku /a
ISTC East Java                  1    60      1    60       1    60      1    60
ISTC Ketidan East Java          1    60      1    60       1    60      1    60
ISTC Denpasar Bali              1    60      1    60       1    60      1    60
Total                     18   660     16   660      16   660     17   690
/a  Expected to be operational by 1988.
Source: AAETE.



INDONESIA
TRZE CROPS HUHAII RESOURCE DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
CAPACITY Of TRAINING FACILITIES IN FOURTEEN PROJECT PROVINCES
(HAN-DAYS)
Institution
Research centers                   PTP
hAATE    Research        supported by                 In-house trg       SPP /2       SPP /2
Province        ISTCs /I  Institute$         PTPs             LPP         facilities      National   Province
Aceb                2,860       -              -                -            -              7,680
North Sumatra       2.880      6,000         960              23,520       13,680           7,680
Riau                2,880       -              -                -            -
Jambi               2,880       -              -                -            -               -          7,68(l
South Sumatra       2,880      7,200           -                -            -              7,680        -
Iengkulu                                         -            -                                         7(680 
Lampung              -          -                               -           2,880            -           -
east Java /3        S,760      2,400           -                -            -              7,680
Ball               2,880        -              -
West Kalimantan   2,800        2,880           -                -            -
North Sulavesi       -          -                                                                       7,680
Central Sulawest   -            -                                                                       7,680
Sth.Sulawesl  /3  5,760                -                        -            -              7,680        -
Maluku               -          -              -                -            -              7,680        -
Total man-days   31,680    18,480            960              23,520       16,560          46,080      30,726)
.L Each ISTC can provide 2 24-day courses per year for 60 trainees each (2,880 man-dlyslyear)
j2 Each SPP can provide 4 24-day courses per year for 80 trainees each (1,680 man-days/year)
3  ISTCs with double capacity.



INDONESIA
TREE CROPS  UMALN RESOURCE DEVELOW"ENT PROJECT
CLASSIFICATION OF TRAINING BY COMMODITY AND AGENCY /1
g bler/2          ~~~Oil Palm /3                    Coconut /2                  Coffee  /2
"stil "anager Traissing  Training of Specialized          PNU Manager training       PMU Manager TV&, 4n8
Trainers for AAETE and PTPs
1'MU Snspervisor Tralaing  Ftnanicial Management Training  PHU Supervisor Training   PHU Supervisor Train.
for Managers and Accountants
of PTPs and private estates
IMU Extension Worker     Advanced commodity training      PHU 8xtension Worker       PMU gxtension Worker
Training                  for staff of DGE Directorates   Training                   Training
Training of Specialized  Management and Technical         Training of Specialized   Training of Speeialized
Trainers for AAETE       Training for LPP staff           Trainers for AETE.         Trainers for AATE and PTPs
4lnid PITPs
iInancial Management                                      Advanced comeodity         Advanced cowmmdity training
Tr;ailning for Managers                                    training for staff of     for staff of DOE Directorates
and Accountants of                                        DCE Directorates
PTPs and private estates
Advanced Commodity                                        Management and Technical Management and Technical
Training for staff                                        Training for LPP staff    Training for WP staff
of DWE Directorates
Management and Technical                                  DISBU Manager Training   DISBUN Manager Training
Trainitg for LPP staff
DISBUN Manager Training
Farmer Leader Training                                    Farmer Leader Training    Farmer Leader Training
/1 The project would traing some 4,000 PHU extension workers and supervisors In basic crop technology, 1,200 PFM
managers, 700 1DSBUM sentor and junior managers, 500 PT and private estates financial managers and accountants..
40 uDE Directorate staff, 10 Master trainers and 100 commodity specialized trainers for AAETE and 50 commodity
specialized trainers for the PTPs. Thirty staff of LPP Togyoakrta and Medan would undergo advanced training.
/2 Rubber, coconut and coffee are largely smailbolder crops. Extension is provided through IMUs and supervision
by DISIUN.
I. aPel oslo in lsIraelv an estate crop with, so fto, limited  _mliholder partIcipation.



_                                                -£   53 -
ANNEX 4
TablTe-T
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
Summary of Consultant Services - by Component and Year
(sta._-mOu.s)
No. of  Inter-
per-   national  1988/  1989/  1990/  1991/  1992/
sons   Domestic   89      90     91     92      93    Total
Directorate General of Estates (DGE)
Human -Resource Development FIU
Manpover UeveLopmenr 6 management        1     (I)        12    12       -      -       -      24
Mmnpower Planning & Development          1     (I)         -     -      12     12      12      36
Needs Analysis and Program Planning    1       (I)        12    12       6      -      -       30
Training Delivery MAE                   1      (I)         -     -       6     12       6      24
Staff Development Proaram of DGE
materials preparation, program           1     (I)         2      1      1      -       -       4
design and field testing              1      (D)         2      1      1      -      -        4
Course preparation & lmplementation    1       (I)         1      1      1      -       -       3
I     (D)         1      1      1      -      -        3
Management Information System           3      (I)        12      6      -      _       _      18
1     (D)         6     -       -      -      -        6
Subtotal                                             48    34      28     24     18      152
ATI (Development of Management
-;rilnng Gourses ror uiSsul 6 Mw)
Team I  - Smaliholder tree crop            I     (D)         3      -      -      -       -       3
- Management training             I     (D)          3     -      -       -      -        3
Team II - Smallholder tree crop            1     (D)         4      -      -      -       -       4
- Management training             1     (D)          4     -      -       -      -        4
- Audio visual                    I      (D)         4     -      -       -      -        4
Subtotal                                             18     0      0       0      0       18
LPP (Development of Financial
_ours-eal
Trsa1Ln   needs analysis and               I     (I)        12     -       -      -       -      12
design of training courses               1     (D)         8     -       -      _      _        8
Training material preparation              1     (I)         -    12       6      -       -      18
2     (D)         -    12       6      -       -      18
Training course delivery                   1     (D)         -      -      3      3       -       6
Institutional development/                I      (I)         -    12       -      -      -       12
training advisor
Subtotal                                             20    36      15      3      _       74
TOTAL                                                86    70     43      27     18      244



-54 -                                      AMNE 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
Summary of Overseas Fellowship Programs - by Component and Year
(Staff-years)
No. of
persons  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Staff Development Program of DGE
Master's degree program /a          15       10.0     15.0       5.0       -        -      30.0
Short-term study (tech. staff)      15        1.0      1.0      1.0       0.25      -       3.25
Short-term study (middle/senior    15         1.0      1.0       1.0      0.25      -       3.25
managers)
Subtotal                                  12.0     17.0      7.0       0.5      0.0    36.5
AAETE
Master's degree program              7        5.0      7.0       2.0       -        -      14.0
Subtotal                                  5.0       7.0      2.0       0.0      0.0    14.0
LPP
LPP-YoRyakarta
Master's degree program            3        2.0      3.0       1.0       -        -       6.0
PhD program                        3        2.0      3.0      3.0       1.0       -       9.0
Short-term study                   6        -         -       0.75      0.75      -       1.5
LPP-Medan
Master's degree program            4        2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0       -       8.0
Short-term study                   6        -         -       1.0       0.5       -       1.5
Subtotal                                  6.0       8.0      7.75      4.25     0.0    26.0
MOA - Secretary General
Master's degree program              6         -       4.0       6.0      2.0       -      12.0
Short-term study                     -        -         -        -         -        -        -
Subtotal                                 23.0       4.0      6.00      2.00     0.0    12.0
Total Fellowships (staff-years)          24.0      36.0     22.75      6.75     0.0    88.5
/a  Five of the master's fellowships would be for Echelon IV staff from the Directorates of
Extension (2), Agribusiness (1), Planning (1), and the Secretariat (1), who would be
assigned to the HRD consultants as counterpart staff.
Assumptions: MA degree - 2 years; PhD - 3 years; and Short-term courses - 3 months.



ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page I
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN R8SOURCE DEVELO1'HENT PROJECT
Improving Sectoral Productive Capacity
Summary of Local Training Programs by Year
(staff-days)
Training  No, of   Dura-
Target group/                             institu-  partici-  tion    1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93    Total
Course requirement                        tions      pants   (days)                        (staff-days)
Technical Training
PIU Extension Workers /a
Basic technology, basic               AAETE       2,350     24          -   56,400        -        -        -     56,400
extension
Crop protection, harvest,             MErE        2,350     24          -        -   56,400        -        -     56,400
post-harvest technique,
farming systems, maintenance
Organiting farmer groups,             METE        2,350     24          -        -        -   56,400        -     56,400
leadership development,
special interest topics
Subtotal P1U Extension Workers              2.350                 0       56,400    56,400   56.400   0    169,200
PHU Supervisors /b
Dic technology, basic extension,    M8ET         1,260     24          -   30,240        -        -        -     30,240
extension supervision
Crop protection, barvest,             M8TE        1,260     24          -        -   30,240        -        -     30,240
post-harvest technique, farming
systems, maintenance
Organizing farmer groups,             AAETE       1,260     24          -        -        -   30,240        -     30,240
leadership development,
special interest topics
Subtotal PHU Supervisors                    1,260                 0   30.240   30,240   30.240        0     90,720
PHU Asat. Manager (Technical)
Production, post-harvest teecnology,  AMTE          420    48           -    2,880    6,720    6,720    3,840     20,160
extension methods, supervision,
management
Subtotal PHU Technical                        420                 0    2.880    6.720    6,720    3.840     20.160
Assistant Managers
DGE Personnel
T1crnierdupgrading/study visit        DGE            30    90           -      900      900      900        -      2,700
Subtotal DGE Personnel                          30                 0      900      900      900        0      2,700
Total (A) Technical Training                 4.060                 0   90,420   94.260   94,260    3.840    282,780
msnaerial & Administrative Training
PhU "Xaerg
Silailoider project A extension       LPP/        1,260     12          -    3,780    3,780    3,780    3,780     15,120
anagement/work program planning   AMTE
Technology upgrading/management       LPP/        1,260     12          -    3,780    3,780    3,780    3,780     15,120
of personnel                        AAME
Subtotal PMII  Managers                      1.260                 0    7.560    7.560    7.560    7.560     30,240
DISBUN Staff
Junior Naers
9Dallbolder project & extension     LPP/          530    12           -    1,590    1,590    1,590    1,590      6,360
management/work program planning  AAETE
Basic management/financial          LPP/          530    12           -    1,590    1,590    1,590    1,590      6,360
management                       MAETS
Senior Ihnagers
S&allholder project & extension     LPP/          140     12          -      420      420      420      420      1,680
mageaent/work program planning  MET
Basic management/financial          LPP/          140     12          -      420      420      420      420      1,680
management                        MET8
Subtotal DI8BUN Staff                          670                 0    4.020    4.020    4.020    4.020     16.080



AMNE 4
-56 -S blo 
Training  go. of    Dura-
Target group/                              inastitu-  particl-  tion    1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93    Total
Course requirement                          tions   pants  (days) -                           (staff-days)
Managerial & Administrative Training (cont'd)
DGE HeadquarterNs Stffi
Basic management course                DGE/PIU        40      12        480        -         -        _        _         480
Intermediate course                    DBP/lID        40      12          -      480         -        -        -         480
Advanced course                        DGF/PIU        40      12          -        -       480        -        -         480
Subtotal DGE Staff                               40                480      480      480         0        0       1,44
LPP Staff
Short-term study visits                               11     90           -        -       450      540        -         990
Subtotal LPP Stfff                               11                  0        0      450       540        0        990
Ttl (B) Manaxerial&                           1.981                480   12.060   12.510   12.120   11,580      47.760
Adinisrative Training
Financial Management
PTPs
Senior managers /c                     LWP            50      18          -        -       300      300      300         900
Senior accountants /d                  LWP            SO     36           -        -       600      600      600       1,800
Junior accountants We                  LPP           140      54          -        _    2,520    2,520    2,520        7,560
Financial awareness7f                  LWP           100     12           -        -      400       400      400       1,200
Subtotal PTPs                                   340                  0        0    3A820    3.820    3,820       11,460
Private Estates
Senior managers /c                     LWP            25      18          -        -       150      150      150         450
Senior accountants /d                  LPP            25      36          -        -       300      300      300         900
Junior accountants /e                  LPP            60      54          -        -    1,080    1,080    1,080        3.240
Financial awareness/f                  LWP            50      12          -        -       200      200      200         600
Subtotal Private Estates                        160                  0        0    1.730   1j.30    1.730         S.190
Total (C) Financial !suagemast                  500                  0        0    5.550    5,550    5.550       16,650
Farmer Leader Trainin
NESPIR laters(cverted)                  PTP/DISBUN    730       9/yr   3,375%   6,750    6,750    6,750    6,750       30,375
NES/PIR leaders (in process of           PTP/DISBUN  4,000       9/yr  18,000   36,000   36,000   36,000   36,000    162,000
conversion)
PHU leaders (SECDP)                      PfU/SECDP  2,800       12/yr  16,800   33.600   33,600   33,600   33,600    151,200
P1U leaders                              PhU         6,900      12/yr  41,400   82,800   82,800   82,800   82,800    372,600
PIR traus and KIK leaders                PHU         3,000   9/yr           -   27,000   27,000   27,000   27,000    108,000
Total (D) Farmer Leader Training             17.450             79,575  186.150  186.150  186.150  186.150    824,175
Total PIU Extension Workers                            2,350                  0   56,400   56,400   56,400         0    169,200
Total PHU Supervisors                                   1,260                 0   30,240   30,240   30,240         0      90,720
Total PhU Technical Asst. hanagers                       420                  0    2,880    6,720    6,720    3,840       20,160
Total DGt Personnel                                        30                 0    1,350    1,350         0        0       2,700
Total PHU Managers                                      1,260                 0    7,560    7,560    7,560    7,560       30,240
Total DISBUN Staff                                       670                  0    4,020    4,020    4,020    4,020       16,080
Total DOE Staff (Headquarters)                            40                480      480       480        0        0       1,440
Total PTPs                                               340                  0        0    3,820    3,620    3,820       11,460
Total Private Estates                                     160                 0        0    1,730    1,730    1,730        5,190
Total LPP                                                  11                 0        0       450      540        0         "9O
Total Farmer Leader Training                           17,450            79,575  186,150  186,150  186,150  186,150    824,175
Total Local Traini8                          23.991             87.789  289.080  298.920  297*180  207.120  1,180,089
/a Includes about 700 for rubber, 1,050 for coconuts and 600 for coffee.
71 Includes about 300 for rubber, 600 for coonuts end 360 for coffee.
T7  one one-week course per year for three years.
7Td One two-week course per year for three years.
/e One three-week course per year for thre years.
7O One two-week course per person during project implmentation.



ANNEX 5
- 57                               Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Human Resource Development and Management (HRDM) Specialist
Establishing HRDM capacity, a concept new to the subsector, is a key
project objective. The advice and guidance of an experienced, adaptable and
imaginative person is required in creating a group with a sound organizational
structure, strong internal support and external linkages, and well trained and
enthusiastic staff. Duration of assignment - 30 months.
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should hold earned qualifications from a recognized
institution and have at least ten years' experience in the management of
manpower planning and development bodies. The specialist should be fluent in
English and a working knowledge of Indonesian would be a decided advantage.
Major Responsibilities
The specialist is required to provide the guidance necessary for the
establishment of HRDM capacity within the structure of DGE. This will entail
conceptualizing, planning, negotiating, and presenting concepts and programs
to a variety of audiences inside the DGE and elsewhere. The specialist will
work closely with the project director in a systematic and carefully pro-
grammed manner involving him in all planning, program formulation, and general
management activities.
Main Tasks
(a) provide the guidance necessary for the establishment of HRDM
capacity;
(b) develop and design in detail a HRDM structure for the DGE, including
staffing patterns and job descriptions on the basis of the compre-
hensive estate crops subsector manpower and training development
program;
(c) persuade officials of DGE and concerned agencies to accept the
concept and role of the HRDM in the DGE;
(d) develop HRDM capacity with the support of the DGE and all concerned
agencies;
(e) prepare the short-, medium- and long-term H1DM work program;
(f) prepare an implementation and operations guideline for 11DM
including a detailed annual ICE wide HRD program;



AN=  5
-58 -                              Page 2
(g)  develop and maintain linkages with concerned agencies, especially
AAMETE and LPP;
(h)  coordinate the activities of the other specialist consultants, and
encourage good consultant-counterpart working relationships;
(i,  ensure that there is transfer for knowledge and skills from the
consultants to the HRDM staff of the DGE;
(j)  advise on the selection of DGE staff for transfer to the URDM
function;
(k)  manage the training program for HRDM counterpart personnel;
(1)  document and evaluate the formation and growth of the HRDM function;
and
(m)  write annual reports and an end of assignment report.



_ 59                             ANNEX 5
Page 3
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Manpower Planning and Development Specialist
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should have an earned qualification from a recognized
institution in Management, Manpower Planning or related fields and should have
no less tnan ten years' experience in successfully practising or directing
manpower planning activities. Fluency in English is required and a working
knowledge of Indonesian is desirable. Duration of assignment is 30 months.
Ma3or Responsibilities
The specialist is expected to design, field test, and operationalize
a manpower planning and development program suited to the needs of the DGE and
applicable to the subsector.
Main Tasks
(a) document and review the existing manpower policies, current staff
utilization patterns and staff allocation norms, existing career
prospects, salary scales, other fringe benefits and working condi-
tions;
(b) assess, in detail, the manpower development requirements of the
estate crops subsector by means of surveys, observations and inter-
views;
(c)  formulate a manpower development master plan;
(d) estimate total future trained manpower requirements in the light of
DGE objectives and Repelita targets;
(f)  project the annua' recruitment of new staff needed to meet total
trained manpower requirements;
(g) plan an improved allocation and utilization of manpower resources;
(h) develop, design and field test a comprehensive estate crops
subsector manpower development program and system, including
implementing guidelines;
(i) draw up a training progtam for DGE staff assigned to the PIU HRD
group in the area of Manpowrr Development;
(j) develop a work prograer 'or 4anpower Development;



ANNEX 5
-60 -                               Page 4
(k) assist and advise on the description of jobs which are required by
the estate crops subsector;
(1) assist and advise on the development of career paths with
recommendations on the ranking of positions;
(i) assist and advise on developing a system for job rotation, taking
into consideration temporary transfer to DGE projects;
(n) provide guidance in identifying performance oriented incentives such
as supplementary income, nonmaterial incentives and career
opportunities;
(o) prepare suggestions for improving staff morale and motivation based
on career prospects, compensation and working conditions;
(p) design and recommend appropriate personnel information system,
including selection of hardware and software; and
(q)  write annual reports and end of assignment report.



-61 -ANX 
Page 5
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Training Needs Assessment and Training Program Planning Specialist
Q-ualifications and Experience
The specialist should have an earned qualification from a recognized
institution in the field of agriculture or Human Resource Development. A
minium of ten years' experience in the field of agriculture training is
required with proven ability to undertake needs analyses in a large and
complex subsector. Experience with tree crops would be a decided advantage.
The specialist must be fluent in english and a working knowledge of Indonesian
is desirable. Duration of assignment is 30 months.
Major Responsibilities
The specialist is expected to undertake a thorough analysis of
training needs in the subsector, except in the area of financial management
for PTPs and private estates which is to be dealt with separately, and produce
a comprehensive training program plan which indicates those skill areas
requiring priority attention. The specialist will also produce guidelines and
undertake training of HRD staff to ensure continuity of the function.
Main Tasks
(a) review the training of trainers program developed by the DGE Working
Group-Project Preparation Team and AAETE, and propose changes and
improvements, if necessary;
(b) provide guidance in conducting a detailed training needs analysis of
personnel of DGE and its field units by documentation, surveys,
observations and interviews;
(c) formulate and recommend training development strategies, policies
and methodology to develop, maintain and improve a comprehensive
estate crops subsector training program;
(d) develop, design and continually improve a comprehensive estate crops
subsector training program and implementation guidelines, based on
training needs analysis, manpower projections and training eval-
uation reports of the HED Training Implementation staff;
(e) draw up a training program for staff assigned to needs assessment
and training program plaDning;
(f) prepare budgets for the training program development;



ANNEX 5
-62 -                          Page 6
(g) establish working relationships with AAETE, LPP and other training
centers to ensure maximum institutional accord and cooperation;
(h) work closely with all specialist consultants and DGE senior managers
to obtain their support in the development of a comprehensive estate
crops subsector training program;
(i) participate directly when requested in conducting training for
upper-level and middle-level trainers of the training of trainers
program; and in implementing the action programs of the comprehen-
sive estate crops subsector training program; and
(j) write annual reports and end of assignment report.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
-63 -
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Training Program Management Specialist
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should have an earned qualification from a recognized
institution in the fields of Agriculture, Agricultural Education and Extension
or Training. A minimum of ten years as a successful practitioner or manager
of large scale training programs in Agriculture, preferably in the tree crops
subsector, is required. The specialist should be fluent in English and a
working knowledge of Indonesian wuuld be a decided advantage. The assignment
period is 24 months.
Major Responsibilities
The specialist is expected to implement the subsector training
program in an efficient and effective manner. A system for managing the
training program in terms of planning, procurement of training resources
inside and external to the DOE, maintaining training quality standards,
delivery, evaluation and budgeting will be developed and tailored to the needs
of the DGE and the subsector. A system for delivery short duration in-house
training will also be devised.
Main Tasks
(a) design practical program implementation methodology;
(b) prepare budgets for the implementation of the program;
(c) survey training supply sources in the subsector and externally;
(d)  liaise with supporting institutions for the supply of training;
(e) Advise on the preparation of contracts for training between the DOE
and AAETE or LPP;
(f) set standards for training quality;
(g) formulate effective systems for evaluating trainers, training sites,
curricula, instruction, teaching materials and aids, and trainee
performmance on-the-job after completion of training;
(h) develop a system for short duration in house (on-the-job) training;



A N I
-64-                               Page 8
(i) advise on training/teaching aids for DGE's in-house training
programi
(j) participate in training activities when requested;
(k) visit all training venues on a continuous basis;
(1)  prepare a training program for DCG  staff involved in the training
program management function;
(m) write annual reports and end of assignment report.



AME  5
65                               Pass 9
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Management Training for DGE Headquarters Staff
The project would design basic, intermediate and advanced managment
in house training courses for about forty headquarters staff. HRDM staff
would confirm the needs analyxed during appraisal, A team of two consultants
(one international and one domestic) would be provided for four months each to
design the training courses and prepare teaching materials. They would then
each be hired for one month per year to prepare and deliver 2 two-week courses
at the appropriate level over a three-year period.
Qualifications and Experience
The management training specialists should have earned qualifica-
tions from recognized institutions and have at least ten yers' experience in
the field of management and management training.
Major Responsibilities
(a) training course design at basic, intermediate and advanced levels;
(b) training materials preparation and field testing; and
(c) training course delivery an4 evaluation.



ANMU 5
-66 -                              Page 10
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Financial Management Needs Analysis and Course Design Specialist
The project will design and offer a package of financial management
training courses for personnel from the public and private estates (PTPs and
PB8N) designed to strengthen this critical function in the subsector. A
specialist in financial management training will be required to undertake a
needs analysis, design suitable training packages and assist with the imple-
mentation of the program.
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should hold an earned qualification from a recognized
institution and should have at least ten years' experience as a training
practitioner in the field of Financial Management. Fluency in English is
required.
Major Responsibilities
The specialist is required to make an accurate analysis of the
training needs of the staff of the PTPs and PBSN who deal with financial
management and to design a series of courses to be conducted over a three-year
period which will meet those skill areas.
Main Tasks
(a) survey the public and private estates financial management systems;
(b) conduct a training needs analysis;
(c) design a series of courses to upgrade competence;
(d) advise on the delivery of the courses;
(e) liaise with LPP, the institution iesponsible for the implementation
of the program; and
(f) evaluate courses.



- 67 -                             ANNEX 5
Page il
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMEMT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Financial Management Needs Analysis and Course Design Specialist (Domestic)
The financial management training component will require the
services of a person who fully understands the structure, operations, and
procedures of the estates. This specialist will support the work of the
financial management needs analysis and course design specialist by providing
background information, placing observations in context and assisting with the
analysis of training needs data.
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should have held a managerial post in the estates
subsector and preferably have come up through the ranks. At least ten years'
experience in the subsector will be required. An ability to communicate
clearly in Indonesian and in English will be necessary.



-68-                                ANNEX 5
Page 12
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Financial Management Training Materials Preparation Specialist
A team of financial management training course design specialists
will be required to prepare case studies adapted for computer application and
design and produce other teaching aids required for the course. The assign-
ment would be completed in twelve months, during the second year of project
implementation.
Qualifications and Experience
The specialists (one internationally recruited, two domestic) should
have earned qualifications from recognized institutions and at least six
years' experience in financial management training including the production of
case studies and their adaptation to computer application.
Main Tasks
(a) identify cases which fit into the course design;
(b) develop cases to suit the requirements of the trainee target groups;
(c) adapt the cases for computer application;
(d) translate all cases to Bahasa Indonesia;
(e) field test and, if necessary, modify cases; and
(f) develop all other materials required to support the teaching of the
course;
(g) progressively shift teaching responsibility to LPP staff while
increasing attention to quality of teaching, teaching materials and
evaluation; and
(h) assist LPP in the production of improved (field tested) course
materials packages.



- 69-                               ANNEX 5
Page 13
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Financial Management Training Specialist
LPP will have responsibility for implementing the financial manage-
ment course for staff of the PTPs and private estates. ITe course will be in
three parts for each target group and will be completed over a three-year
period. A Financial Management Training consultant will be attached to LPP
for a total of 6 months to prepare for the course, assist LPP teaching staff,
participate in course implementation and conduct evaluation.
Qualifications and Experience
The Financial Management Training Specialists should have earned
qualifications from a recognized institution and have seven to ten years'
experience in financial management with special emphasis on financial manage-
ment teaching/training.
Main Tasks
(a) work closely with LPP in preparing for and implementing the
financial management training course;
(b) together with LPP staff, team teach the course, evaluating teacher
performance and trainee reaction to ensure quality delivery and con-
tinuing course improvement;
(c) propose and complete improvements in course materials and contents;
and
(d) evaluate, through field follow-up visits, the effectiveness of the
course by consulting the trainees and their managers.



70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 14
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Terms of Reference
PMU Management Training Component
Two technical assistance teams, working in close collaboration with
AAETE and LPP would:
(a) (Team I) undertake a management training needs analysis and prepare
course outlines (one management training specialist, one smallholder
tree crop specialist); and
(b) (Team II) prepare and field test course teaching materials (one
management training specialist, one audiovisual specialist and one
smallholder tree crop specialist).
Team I
Management Training Specialist
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should have an earned qualification from a recognized
institution and have at least ten years' experience in the field of management
and management training. The specialist should have experience with the
design of management training activities for staff of PMU manager level.
Major Responsibilities
The specialist will be required to make an accurate analysis of the
training requirements of PMU manager level staff with the advice and assist-
ance of AAETE and LPP who have already done some training for this target
group. The specialist will also prepare clear outlines of courses required.
Smallholder Tree Crops Specialist
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should have an earned agricultural qualification from
a recognized institution and have six to ten years' experience with small-
holder development and with the PMU program and its organization.
Major Responsibilities
The specialist would perform the role of key resource person on
smallholder programs, staff and farmer activities and tasks and proAide



- 71 -                              AN=  5
Page 15
constructive reviews of training needs analysis and course outlines as they
develop. The specialist would work as a team member with the management
training specialist and also participate in discussions with AAETE and LPP.
Team II
Management Training Specialist
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should have an earned qualification from a recognised
institution and have at least ten years' experience in the fileld of management
and management training. The specialist should have experience in the design
of management training activities for staff at PMU manager level.
Major Responsibilities
The specialist together with other team members and staff of AAETE
and tPp would prepare teaching/training materials for the courses prepared by
Team I. These may include exercises, simple case studies, handouts and other
support materials for trainees and instructors. The specialist would also
field test all materials.
Audiovisual Specialist
Qualifications and Experience
The specialist should have recognized qualifications and at least
six years experience in the design and preparation of audio and visual aids
for training programs.
Major Responsibilities
Design and prepare audio and visual support materials for the
management training courses in cooperation with the other team members and
staff of AAETE and LPP.
Smallholder Tree Crop Specialist
The specialist should have an earned agricultural qualification from
a recognized institution and have six to ten years experience with smallholder
development and with the PMU program and its organization.
Major Responsibilities
To act as a practical resource person for the team as they design,
prepare and filed test teaching/training materials.



- 72 -                              AME  5
Page 16
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Management Information System Design and Implementation Specialist
The Directorate General of Estates has a continuous requirement for
data collection, processing and analysis. It anticipates rapid growth of this
function and under the project will put in place an improved system. The DCE
will require the services of a management information specialist to design a
MIS to match the accepted ttcommendations of a pre-project study on the struc-
ture and organization of the DGE.
Qualifications and Experiene
The MIS implementation specialist should have appropriate qualifica-
tions form a recognized institution and have had at least seven years' exper-
ience of design and implementation of management information systems. The
specialist should be fluent in English.
Main Tasks
(a) design an effective Management Information System to meet the needs
of the DCE;
(b) advise on equipment to support the MIS;
(c) prepare, field test and finalize guidelines on the implementation of
the system for use by DGE staff;
(d) provide guidance and on-the-job training for DGE MIS staff to ensure
that they are familiar with all key operations and equipment; and
(e) supervise the installation and testing of all new MIS equipment.



- 73                                ANNEX-
Page 17
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS NEEDS RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Institutional Development/Training Advisor
LPP with campuses in Yogyakarta and Medan is responsible for
providing the estate crop sector with management training programs aimed at
improving the efficiency of their operations. In institutional terms LPP is
young and still growing with staff training being implemented and an institu-
tional mission being formulated. Management of LPP can benefit from the
assistance of an institutional development training advisor for some time to
come. The advisor would address institutional direction issues, quality of
instruction, administrative efficiency, client needs and program evaluation.
Qualifications and Experience
The advisor should hold earned qualifications from recognized insti-
tutions and have at least ten years' experience in management training
institutions comparable in mission to LPP.
Main Tasks
(a) to serve LPP management in an advisory capacity on issues of import-
ance to the growth and direction of the institution;
(b) to observe and comment on teaching quality and, where necessary,
make suggestions for improvement;
(c) review teaching and resource materials quantitatively and qualita-
tively;
(d) review staff inservice training needs;
(e) continuously observe institutional administrative arrangements with
a view to improving efficiency;
(f) liaise with clients of LPP to ensure that training needs are
addressed; and
(b) assist management with program and institutional evaluation on a
regular basis.



- 74 -
Ah= 6
Table 1
lifEEW 1C1H REMCE WaW POET
Suiary bf Project Costs by Category of Expenditure La
(Uw. Billion)       (UlN mlii.)               I Toal
a~~-           *. X Fosi*n  kw
Locol Foign Total Local Fortisn Totl Eekh          Costs
I~~ s No     MM
As IMCThL AMTS
A. TEOOIIC. ASIStAIICE
1. fPEIOIN COSIILtANTS              0.3    3.0  3.3   0.2    1.3  2.0            0        9
2. LOCA CONSINTMTS                  0.2    0.0  0.2   0.1    0.0  0.1           20        1
uTotal TEDCIUC  ASISTNICE              0.5    3.0   3.6   0.3    1.8  2.1          Is       10
. OWM   FAUJINIPS                      0.1    2.5  2.7   0.1    1.5  1.6            5        7
C.T RAMN   OFTom                       0.2    0.2  0.5   0.1    0.1  0.3           s         I
P. LCM  IAININ
1. TECHNICL                        13.0    1.4  14.4   ?.8    0.9  8.7          10       40
2. IWM  MAL NID A3i       TIWE      1.8    0.2  2.0   1.1    0.1  1.2            10       6
3. FIIWICIAL N1MOEE                 0.6    0.1  0.7   0.3    0.1  0.4           15        2
4., lIMi SMIAILS                    2.0    0.2  2.2   1.2    0.1  1.3           10        6
Si-Tota LOCAL I1A11NS                 17.3    2.0 19.3  10.5    1.2 11.6           10       9
Es ESIPHNT                             0.4    3.3  3.7   0.2    2.0  2.2           9        10
F.I IOKSM U a  W                       0.0    0.4  0.5   0.0    0.3  0.3           90        1
B. VEHIcI.E                           O.l     O.ll0.1  .10  00    .0    .5 0.1
Total Il_E l COS                        18.7   11.5 30.2  11.3   6.9  18.2            38       34
II. -1 COST
A.sIINNWltL .TfSLARL                  1.4      -  1,4   0.9        -  0.9          -        4
t. FIEI/U     IIN  ISITS              0.8    0.2  l.1   0.5    0.1  0.6           20        3
C. cNaSWL   ARILt                    0.3    O.1  0.4   0.2    0.0  0.2            20        1
D.e P aTI  a NINTIWE                  2.2    0.6  2.0   1.3    0.3  1.7           20        8
tOal UCIA1T COST                         4.8    0.8  5.6   2.9    0.5  3.4            15       16
to l RENE COS                            23.5   12.4 35.9  14.2    .4  21.6            34      O
wunil Ctmmmaih                         2.4    1.2  3.6   1.4    0.7  2.2            34       1O
Price Ctiiwein                        3.9    0.8  4.7   2.3    0.5  2.8            17       13
a -aa-a -  -
Totl FOCT COS                           2V7   14.4 44.1  17.9  8.7 26.6                33      123
Discrepaucis in totals are due to  romding.
ncludes, about US$0.5 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



9'1*3;"u 01 3N  3m 1303 UT ,3           4"*3 7T
rt   -*t'   ci  sIT    o9    1re   To    re            re        ro       sIo     rt       t'    re         t'          lot                            WW3 w S
r     l  re       n      n      too   n      Tog       tl O      oo       -       91 o     II'   ro         ro          100a
re    P6 r      o   gm     re       n    rt   Cs          rt        rZ       re      t'S      tog   rol        Sl          Vk                              am 1M 
ir          co                               ree   e     e 1'             re      go       r tr ri  e  -  oe  i  w  eo                                     _ M"
n       n    got   n  0          190  100   ro         t'O '§1            1*0     9'0      gol   ro0                    0'010  *          '      0       W    PN
rf    PC   ;iig'e,   roe    re   *           n we                mi       re      0*       s.e    re              r      ipt                           1 101UA11 M Wi
rOt  te                                                                  I -  -    -  -  -  -  -  e1 -1 ' -  -         i                                            s
re    re   r.   -                -    -      -         -         -        -       tio       re                                                      1 r          O
ic   e* t .   te0 -      -      -    -       -         -         -        -t      0' 0     -      -         -                                             ImdNu Z 0  3
reI   reOm    t   re             we   *      .          i        ii       -       -        -     -t                                             UIMIMN 331  PW-U
Tog,  fe;  I'll   ce     ;c      ie ie        e        c          ee                                                    -o                      5*111 UINO MIq   i
cc    01t 1e    -        -      -      * -        -                t -    -        -      -         8we - -U  t'                                       utinui I U 
*        t 01     rs     -       -    - -                                 -       -        -      -                                               AM 0c1           -
aUm      O  '111 o
O t O'Ot          r      re    90'  go    9*    * 00    *          t0   t l§      rz  t    CT   r*o         rl          rc                          Gmmo             s
'e     e      e    iOm   1  -   -   -    -        -         -         -       -       I o     -        -          -         1u0                         W 
Oc                                                                               too      to *o e    O   -             -            -zuui - - 100 --             *
e    eet   I                                                                        t       0 -    -  -  -  -  -  1' 0  e  l  *0                          BMW1- -  0
441    V ol  r6t  tt    t¢       goo   s0 8'0          ra        rt                               -         to          -                       mu        -  - 1'014-41
to    rot  z ro          I¢o      o ro        0          0       ro       -       -        --ro  -                                             M     "    _um  Ot
re       t   c   -                                               tOt-  -    -  -  -  -  - -  -                          -                            m _ 3 *t
re ore   e                               -                                -    we             -             ri    -                   -              uuIm -zu --
00    to   rt   - s                              *          z                 -       -0       -0    -*                     119 -wn                       wa      e"i 0
amn inuum i
- 0 01--tO-   m -    m -    -   -  -    -' -     -     - mDm
s z   11 -fYa               am   (it)  () (Y 1U) - 0                        ()   (-) -     (WI   M  -OS (at) E °fi           (N)
sspFIa I                         M                               SIoN   fq -                        in  m  wis roa -  r-         m
saim OM   uum           OM  M                                                                  D0 mA  N
um  ~~~mu a ini
_!B1  S 1 11 _1|-_ q ]1 111_1 _t l~~~MKIMINS                                    unna
_~~~~~~~~~ Is n131W1JUNMO '31OM0 A    N_1                             Ma_XAMaIS                AVM    OLU     111101
W *nmmo PMAxounv £q *am@ 3alp.zaA
_ danJ ~ ~                                mu  -   -g  u  m



TMEE CWS MM  EUW'  ELNi  FECt
Project Expenditure by Component and Year /a
Totals Inclitwd Cotimejus                 Ttas id    iM  CmbfcnlL S_
(we. Kilian)                             (MSS mliltn)
981139 899no 90m9 nm/9  92/93 93/94 Total ssno 3/9  90/9  9112 92/9  3/4Total
-  _r   *_n                        s  ms    =   m        a= u.  m _ 
A. STUB1SW   DVMCTIWAE 9331MM. W ESTAES
1. HWm I 31P11r IELROFIPIU (Al)                                           1.1  1.1  0.9  0.9  0.7  0.3  4.8   0.6  0.6  0.5  0.5  0.4  0.2  2.9
2. STAFF EOEPNiT P19O9  (02)                                              0.5  0.7  0.3  0.1             -  1.6   0.3  0*4  0.2  0.0    -    -  0.9
3. 1IM3*91NT INFURU*TIN SYSTEWM (Al                                       0.3  0.1    -    -    -    -  0.4   0*2  0.1    -    -    -    -  0.2
94-T9tal SiENBINBID NElCrTRATE IBMERAL OF ESTATES                           1.8  1.9  i.2  0.9  0.7  0.3  6.7   1.1  1.1  0.7  0.5  0.4  0.2  4.1
*. nORO T O   INIITN IEIUF   CMM    IN THE SU9SECTn
1. AMTE (4 )                                                              1.8  1.0  0.9  0.7  0.9  0.5  5.7   1.1  0.6  0.5  0.4  0.5  0.3  3.4
2. LPP (5)                                                                0.7  2.6  1.3  0.6  0.4  0.4  6.0   0.4  1.6  0.8  0*3  0.2  0.2  3.6
3. 19* See.  en. (*6)                                                     O.1  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.6   0.1  0.1  O.   0.1  0.0  0*0  0.4
Suh-Totl IWUVEHENT OF llRAININS T 13B ERT CAACITY IN TME SUIESTR            2.6  3.0  2.4  1.4  1.2  0.9 12.3   1.6  2.3  1.4  0*9  0.7  0.6  7.4
C. iiuiowiiu OF  U9ECTSM. PROIEIYTY  UE*L TRAININh P39934
1. PruT _6USEIINT UNITS
1-014iElt U *77                                                          -  0.6  0.7  0.- 0.7             2.8     -  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.4    -  1.J
lF9139159I9 (AB)                                                         -  1.1  1.2  1.2    -    -  3.5          -  0.7  0.7  0.7    -    -  2.1
EXTEiNSI9l  '111RU   (9)                                                 -  2.0  2.2  2.3    -    -  6.5          -  1.2  1.3  1.4    -    -  3.9
9ub-tdl ROMET NAiUET UWITS                                                  -  3.7  4.1  4.3  0.7    - 12.7          -  2.2  2.4  2.6  0.4    -  7.7
2. D1IU'N  (*10)                                                            -  0.2  0.2  0.3  0.3    -  i.0          -  O.1  O.   0.2  0.2    -  0.6
3. PiS (All)                                                                -    -  0.2  0.3  0.3    -  0.8          -    -  O.1  0.2  0.2   - -  0.5
4. FlIU9lE ESTAtES (12)                                                     -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1    -  0.3          -    -  0.1  0.1  0.1    -  0.2
S. FME= LIEItS (*13)                                                      1.8  2.0  2.1  2.1  2.2  0.1  10.2   1.1  1.2  1.3  1.3  1.3  0.0  6.2
S9b-tutal IIUUUEIWUT OF SUISECTEPAL PRfUMOUCVITft LOrAL 11*131B 93993*3      1.8  5.9   6.7  7.0  3.6  0.1 25.1   1.1  3.6  4.0  4.2  2.2  0.0 15.1              , i:
oul FWECT COSTS  /b                                                           6.3 i1.5 10i3  9.3  5.5  1.3 44.1    3.   6.9  6.2  5.6  3.3  0.8 26.6   
-   urn.   - ---- -----in                              in          nwia
a Discrepancies In totals are due to rounding.
b Includes about US$0.5 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



- 77 -
AMU 6
Tabfe 4
I_lIA ~ ~ ~ ~ T1e
1E Clt I_II1 IEY Ct
TREE CROS NM nowE  WW0  WRC
Project ltpedlture by Catepry and Year a
Totals Includig Coincnis                  Ttals InluiM  Cmtiin
(WP. ill ion)                             (o  Ki lllion)
8/6  89/90 90/91 91/  92M193 934 ToW   Wl 169/90 som 9       M 92M3 WIH ToWl
A. TXICAL ASJSTANCF
I. FOREIGN COSULTAXTS                1.2  1.1   0.7  0.5 0*4    -  39   07   0.*6  0.4  0.3  0.3    -  2.3
2. LOCA. CONIILTMTS                  0,1  0.1  0.1  0.0    -    -  0.3   0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0    -    -  0.2
b-Tatal TECHIR CAL ASITAOCE             13   1.1  0.8  0.6  0.4    -   4.2   0*.  0.?  0.5  0.3  0.3    -  2.5
* .OUE9A   FEUOSI                       0.8  1.2  0.8  0.3    -    -   3.1   0.5  0.7  05   0.2    -    -   109
co TRAIINMSTRAIIET  m                   0.5    -    -    -    -    - 0.5    0.3    -    -    -    -    -  03
-. LOCAL UMNII
1. TEMKICAL                          0.9  4.6  5.0  5.3  2.3    -  18.0   0.5  2.6  3.0  3.2  1,4    -  10.9
2. IWAEIAL AlN AIINSRAT              0.0  0.*6  0.6  0.7  0.7    -  2.6   0.0  0,4  0.4  0.4  0.4    -   1.6
3.3FIUICIOAIEIUJT                                0*3  0.3  03       -  0.9       -0.2  0.2  0.2    -  0.5
4. TIMING NATERIALS                  0.3  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.2    -  2.7   0.2  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.1    -   1.6
Sub-Totl LQUIL TRMM6                    lot  5.9  6.7  7.0  3.5    - 24.2   0.6  3.6  4.1  4.2  2.1    -  14.*6
F. FODVNENT                             1.8  1.9  0.5  0.0  0.0    -  4.2   1.1  1.1  0.3  0.0  0.0    -  2.5
Fs MOS AND JOIWAL                       0.1  0.2  0.2  0.0  0.0    -  0.6   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0    -  0,3
Be WHCLE                                0.t    -    -    -    -    -  0.1    0.1    -    -    -    -    -0.1
Totl iWENT COSS                            5.7  10.3  9.0  7.9  4.0    -  36.9   3.4  6.2  5.4  4.7  2.4               22.2
me,_  _ _m _-                                    - _- _ -         a _     _   _
U.    RITCOS
A. INCREOTAL STAFF SAMUM               0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4  1.8   0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  t.1
9. F8IL/SUPERSIB VIBITS                Ot  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.1  1.3   0.0  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.0  0.8
C. CONIAIE NMNALS                      0.1  00.1 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.5   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  01  0.1  0.3
. OERATIN AND NANTEM                   0.3  0.5  0.   0,7  0.7  0.8  3.6   0.2  0.3  0,4  0.4  0.4  0.5  2.2
Total ECURENT COST                         0.5   1.2  1.3  1.4  1.5  1.3  7.2   0.3  0.7  0.8  0.8  0.9  0.8  4.4
Total  OJC  COSS /b                         6.3  11.5  10.3  9.3  5.5  1.3 44.1    3.8  6.9  6,2  5.   3.3  0.o  26.6
Am. am        -  --=am    -    as   8m         - a     - sm               ma
/a Discrepancies in totals are due to rounding.
W    Includes about US$0.5 million equivalent in taxes and duties.



- 78 -
AM=I 6
Table 5
RE CROP mu   SEE WE_W PNECT
Project Expenditure bv Component and Year (base cost) La
(AP, lillian)
Total
Omw Costs                -
(M
MM89   /90 90ri.  192M                WeN. Nillion)
A. SI  CENI   DIlECTORATE  EEAL OF ESTATF8
1t  HUll RSOIRCE   OPIENT/PIU (Al)                                              1.0   0.9  0,7   0.6   0.5   0,2   4,0        2.4
2. STFF IIEIIa OP PRUORM  (*2)                                                  0.4   0.    0.3   0.0      -     -   1.1      0.8
3. 1 _mN uo   ?F O          SViST   (A3)                                        0.2   0.1      -     -     -     -   0.4      0.2
Sub-Totl S      EMIT    DIIECTURATE  EERL Of ESTATE                                1.6   1.6   1.0  0,7   0.5   0.2   5.7         3.4
s3  loVENT F  TAJ   W MITe CACITY IN THE PSA CTOR
to  ;ETE IA)                                                                    1.6   0.9   0.7   046   0,6   0.3   4.7       2.3
2. liP (AS)                                                                     0,6   2.3   1.1   0.5   0.3  03   S.0        3.0
.3. .MA Sees  Sn$ (A6)                                                           0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.0   0      0. 5      0.7
S-Totl I1              OF TRU       DLIVERY CAPACITY IN TME SUCT                   2.4   3.3   2.0   1.1   0.9   0.*6  10.2       6,1
C. _ W          F  SBNCTURAL PRTm IT: LOCAL TRAINIS PRO0AN
1. PIOUECJ  _UM N tUIlTS'
NAIE   (A)                                                                     -   0.5   0.6   0.6   0.5      -   2*2      1.3
SUPEWIESRS (a)                                                                 - 09   0.9   0.9         -     -   2.8      1:7
EtTl   ION SCIKEtS 09)                                                         - 1.2   1.7   1.2        -     -   5.2      3.1
Sub-Total PROJECt     -      tEXWTU                                               -   3.1   3.3   3.3   0.5      -  10.2      6,1
2. KISOWM  (10)                                                                   -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2      -   0.8      0.5
3. PTPS (All)                                                                     -     -   0.2   0.2   0.2      -   0.6      0.3
4. PRIVAtE ESTATES (012)                                                          -     -   0.1  01   0.1       -   0.3      0.2
5. FANNER LEADERS  (A13)                                                        1.6   1.7   1.7   1,6   1.6   0.0   8.2       5.0
Sub-Tota  IMPI NT OF 9        CTO    PO MCTIVItTI LOCAL TRAININ6 PRC6R1*           1.6   5.0   5.4  5S4   2.6   0.0  20.0       12.1
Total MaELIE COSTS                                                                   5.6   9.9   8.4  722   4.0   0.9  35.9       21.6
Ph"uical Continuncin                                                              0.6   1.0   0.8   0.7   0.4   0.1   3.6       2.2
Price CAinwsmnign                                                                 0.1   0.7   1.1   1,4   1.1   0.3   4.7       2.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                  6.3  11.5  10.3   9.3   5.5   1.3  44.1      26,6
TONS                                                                              0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.1      -   0.8      O.S
ForeignEx E=ni                                                                    4.0   4.7   2.8   1.7   1.0   0.2  14.4       8.7
La Discrepancies in totals are due to roundtig.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6
Table 6
INICESIA
TREE onS NIE RESOURCE  EVLuO          PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Category and Year (base cost) /a
DM  costs                   FoteiF
(RP. Sillion)               E    in
19/99 89910 90/1 91/92 92/93 93/94 Total  2  Amount
t. IESTJENT COST
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS              t.O  0.9  0.6  0.4  0.3    -  3.3 89.7   3.0
2. LCAL CONSULTANTS                 0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0    -    -  0.2 19.8   0.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         1.2  1.0  0.6  05   0*3    -  3.6 95.0   3.0
o. OVERSEAS FELLOYSHIPS                0.7  1t1  0.7  0.2    -    -  2.7 94,9   2.5
C. TRAININB O TRAINERS                 0.5    -    -            -    -  0.5  49.7   0.2
3. LOAL TRAINING
i. TECHNICAL                        0.7  3.9  4.0  4.0  1.7    -  14.4  9.9   1,4
2. HANAGERtRL AND ADMINISTRATIVE    0.0  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5    -  2.0  9.9   0.2
3. FINMkIAL NMANAEIENT                -    -  0.2  0.2  0.2    -  0.7  14.8   0.1
4. IRAININA NAlERIALS               0.2  0.6  0.7  0.6  0.1    -  2.2 10.3   0.2
Sub-Totl LOCAL tRAINIdN                0.9  5.0  5.4  5.4  2.6    -  19.3  10.1   2.0
E. EU1PfIENT                           1.6  1.6  0.4  0.0  0.0    -  3.7 89.9   3.3
F. Ioo  NO JOURNALS                    0.1  0.2  0.2  0.0  0.0    -  0.5 89,9   0.4
So ENICLE                              0.1    -    -    -    -    -  0.1  49.7   0.1
totl IIESTHEWT COSTS                     5.1  0,8  7.3  6.1  2.9    - 30.2 38.1  11.5
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREENTAL STAFF  ARIES            0.1  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.2  1.4  0.0   0,0
. FIELD/ERVISION VISITS               0.0  0.2  0.2  0.2  02  0.0  1.1  19.8   0.2
C. CON _MB   NATERIS                  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.4  19.8   0.1
D. OATIN AND MIINTEMNCE               0.2  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  2.8  20.0   0.6
Total RECURRN CSTS                        0.5  1.0  1.1  1.l  1.1  0.9  5.6  14.9   0.8
Total SIIE COS                             5.6  9,9  8.4  7.2  4.0  0.9  35.9 34.5  12.4
Phyical Contirnrcin                     0.6  1.0  0.8  0.7  0.4  0.1  3.6  34,5   1.2
teic, Continlcins                       0.1  0.7  1.1  1.4  1.1  0.3  4.7  17,4   0.8
Totl POEC m                                6.3  11.5 10.3  9.3  5.5  1.3 44.1 32.6  14.4
mam.-  amas  Mmamm --   ---- ----s - --   ss ---
Taxes                                   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.1  0.1        -  0.8  0.0   0.0
Fonin Exdhan*                           4.0  4.7  2.8  1.7  1.0  0.2  14.4  0.0   0.0
/a Dlicrepancels in totals are due to rounding.



TiEE OWlil U11 EINEEll E*WETt
Breakdon of Project Coate by Category la
ame Ceats          PlcuI CAstius              Pri Ce OWNcils            Total lIel Cant.     Hieal   Cats +
Cast. nP  Puke
Lcal                     lad                     twal                     L11a                 Price Ca. Cat. os
For. (fuEl lUWs I       For. (felo. tss I        For, (fuel, Miss I        Fao. (fel. Mous I        atn Phnical   bw
tab, TOM) Tee   Totl EX. Tas) Tao     TotdI WEc. Tax) Tas  Totl  xcuh. Tas) Tm   Totl    Cat.    casts
m. mm  _U            _u _u  _um  _m.          u  i.mmmm mu                   u     m.u... m.3            m      u
t.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x*2 tm   v=mOa=sas2as*
.. Pr gci misrua
1.t PME IUUIlITUIIS             1.8     -     0.2  2*0   0.2           0.0  0.2  0.1      -     0.0  0.1   2.1  -0.0    0.2  2.3         0.2      2.1
2. LOCI. ClTOIES                0.0  Ol      0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0    0.0  0,0   0.0   0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0  0.1    0.0  0.2             0.0     0.2
l*otd IbM .    ITINI               1.8   0.1    0.2  2.1   0.2   0,0    0.0  0.2  0.1   0.0    0.0  0.1  2.1  0.1    0.3  2.5               0.2      2.3
3. WUIm  FOLSOI                    1.5  0.1        -  1.6  0.2  000         -  0.2   0.1   0.0       -  0.1 1.8  0.1          -  1.9        0.2      1.7
C. 15131W  Mf tO                   0.1   0.1       -  0.3   0.0  0.0        -  0.0   0.0   0.0       -  0.0  0.2  0*2         -  0.3        0.0      0.3
g. LICK T"1111I
1t TEM.                         0.9   7.8       -  8.7  Ot   0.8        -  0.9  0.1   1.2        -  1.3  1.0   9.8        - 10.          1.0     9.9
2. NAW E. iS AINII"TRT          0.1   1.1       -  1.2  0.0  0.1         -  0.1   0.0  0.2        -  0.2  0.1   1.4        -  1.6        0.1      1*4
3. FIIWEI  -mm                  0.1   0.3       -  0.4   0.0  0.0        -  0.0   0.0   0.1       -  0.1   0.1   0*5       -  0.5        0.0      0.5
4. T1IMM15 SJEM.S               0.1  1t1    o.1  1.3  0.0   O.t    0.0  0.    *0   0.2          0.0  0*2   0.2  1.3    0.1  1.6         Ol       1.5
9ebTdl UICIL mom1135               t.2  10.3    0.1 11.6  0.1   1.0    0.0  1.2  0.1   1.?    0.0  1.3   1.4  13.0    0.1 14.6              1.3   U13
t.     It                          2.0   0.2    0.1  2.2   0.2  0*0    0.0  0.2  0.1   0.0    0.0  0.1   2.3   0.2    0.1  2.5              @.t    2.3
fV  ON  MD AL                      0.3   0.0       -  0.3   0.0   0.0       -  0.0   0.0   0.0       -  0.0   0.3   0.0       -  0.3        0.0      0.3
s. oEI                             0.0   0,0    0.0  0.1   0.0   0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0    of0  0.0   0.0   00    0.0  0.1             0.0      0.1
Totd  _UlUt  uSm                      6.9  10.9    0.4 18.2  0.7   1.1    0.0  1,8  0.4   1.7    0*0  2.2   8.1  13.7    0.5 22.2              20      20.2
II. _t m
A*  D Q STNf SlW                    -   0.?       -  o0      -   0.1       -  0,1    -   0.2        -  0.2    -   1t1        -  1.1        0.1      1,0
1. VriUsAn lwE  h S M01   0.5                     -  06   0.0  0.1         -  oft  0.0   0.1        -  0.1   0.2   0.?       -  0.8        0*1      0*.
C. CIlUlLE IAlIMS                 0.0  0.2        -  0.2   0.0   0.0         . a0o  0o0   0o0       -  0.0  0.1  0*2        -  0.3         0.0      0.3
to W Q*T    " I_MeUW              0.3   1.3       -  1.7  0.0   0.1       -  9.2   0,0   0.3       -  0,3   0.4   1.7       -  2.2         0.2      2.0
Tobtl UEIT CUT                        0.5   2*9      -  3.4   0.1   0.3       -  0.3   0.1   0.6       -  0.6  0.6  3.7         -  4.4         0.4     4.0
Total                                  7.4  13.8    0.4 21*6   0.7  1*4    0*0  2.2   0.5   2.3    0.0  2.8   3.7  17.4    0.5 26.6             2.4    24.2
|La  Discrepapces In totals are due to roundig.



- 81 -
ARK6
T1be 8
mm    NM RMX DOER  Pi
Iapmv  So Tmir    Ct
Trm     of Trimrs Pzxa La
(BhbCmP te: P. 1,660 = U$1)
lb. of Durst-    Unit          Total Ost
Timtr- ica or    cost
tdDg of Trane               ern  voam     (Rp000)    (k'OOD)  (U$)
A4ZM
Cmdritrah 4
libber                      15   90 days    28 day  37,530   22.608
Q2o00tt                     15   90 days    28 day  37.530   22,608
Coffee                      15   90 days    28 day  37.530   22,608
Pmst4muzwst taebliqum          5   90 day8    28 day  12.510    7,536
Tr89el (2 tr*  per trainer)   50    2 trips   167 trip  16,700   10,060
abtotal AAI! /b                                    141.800   85,422
Easnar lier  Tazr
MM/PIR                      56    1 a        4b mD    22.624   13.629
PIJ (SOMP) agt. I.MMO       55     1 MD      40 mo   22.220   13,386
FMj (OCiEE)O               367   12 days    25 day  111,201   66.989
ADCs                       190    3 awe    202 D   115.140   69.361
Satotal fanur haters tmlnizg                       271,186   163,364
- ~~~~ -
IJTOM                                              412.985  248,786
/a Thi ps qeta vMil  be cupletsI in tbe flsst year. awmir   ie of coutbimewm.
hS  bx1id  cam  of tminh  nerasU.



A- l.t/U-OSIUI4aI0'2-Irb/9
wIn Coos WA"  mmsun  ONUL10w  raiw
Ualt Casts of lWAca Tatalas Is
based a. 32-de                       -      1o  2   rlas  2-dew SOMrEs 20 trlnees  bease  as 32-dew ceersa  20 traaoses
osot cots                                                      Total,                               Tot"l                                 TOMal
Daily aemiancee                    20 ses at Up 22000        480.000   20 sen at It I_500/day      30.0c 20 sea at to 2.0o0day          44800
Suketal                                   I .~~~~~~~~~~~1060.000                  824.000                             3.300.000
.raval Allowaces fur Trainers
Ser' _r rIt "de at Up ISl000                                  380,000   32 day at Up Isl00m        3180,000   2 days at Up 5,000 1r0.000
Training aselasastesloo                                                         180,000            380,000                                 0.0
Subtotal                                                   360o.m                               360080                                    000
tedzt Zi   lda                     32 du_e at up 25,10da0 3,000,8"    32 "e t U BP 1OOOday 3,120,000  32 dup at Up 2S,OOOdy   3,000
Lectare atee/handoss prop.         20 day at BP 15.00day   32,00 ,      20 dup at Up I,5o00         300,00  20 da" at UP 15.000          30.OO0
8Adin.  e tot-1   r   I"                                     20.000                                2s0.000                               25m0.00
Oresit/claimg cereasas             20 see at Up 5,000OD       10000    20 mm at Up 5.000           100000  20 me at Up 5I,000            UO,OOO
Subtotal                                                 4.7000,000                             180,00                              4U270,000
Total             *                           390.000                                         4.0000                                51930.000
salt cost pet 4stateday           3e92,1000                                                          20.42                                 24t,0B
sit travel C ot for traloes                                   220,000                               310,a00                               220,000
a Be hcaing copta of trata  s         eterile.                              /
b   cu41ldtig trael coets of traltaes.



83 -                              ANNX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estate Crops Farmer Leader Training
1.        Increased smallholder prosperity is a priority government objective
in the estate crops subsector. The project would contribute to the achieve-
ment of that objective by funding systematic training of estate crops farmer
group leaders. Training would emphasize low cost approaches to increasing
output and improving quality from existing crops and would cover improved
husbandry including primary processing as well as group leadership and commu-
nAty development. Farmer leader training in the HRD project would complement
that being supported under the NAEP III project and would be implemented with
the understanding that as sector extension approaches its objective of becom-
ing a unified service, farmer leader training for the estate subsector will be
absorbed into the unified extension system.
2.        Estate crop farmer groups have been formed in all fourteen provinces
included in the project. Groups fall into three categories:
(a) NES/PIR schemes with approximately 750 groups;
(b) PMU schemes including SRDP and SECDP with approximately 9,700
groups;
(c) PIR TRANS (Transmigration) projects and Small Scale Investment (KIK)
programs with about 3,000 farmer leaders; and
(d) Partially assisted areas (outside special projects) with approxi-
mately 9,000 groups.
3.        There are still considerable numbers of smallholders especially in
the NE8/PIR and the partially assisted areas who are not members of estate
crop groups or subgroups. However, as the TCHRD project and NAEP III begin to
produce well trained staff, it is likely that estate crop farmer groups will
increase in number and effectiveness. The TCHRDP will train farmer leaders in
the NES/PIR PMU, PIR TRANS and KIK areas while the NAEP III project will con-
centrate on those in the partly assisted areas. Training methodology will be
complementary.



-84 -                                ANE  7
Page 2
Training Needs of Farmer Leaders -
4.        In the NES/PIR schemes farmer leaders require technical training
in: tapping, fertilizing, crop projection, cooperatives, food crops and
community development. In the PMU scheme technology training for rubber,
coconut and coffee would include field preparation, nursery management,
planting methods, weed control, fertilizer application, pests and diseases,
cover crops, harvesting techniques, collection techniques, processing and
marketing. PMU farmer leaders would also be trained in the management of
farmers organizations to foster and strengthen group activity.
Support Materials and Equipment for the Farmer Leader Training Program
5.        The project will provide funding for the design, field testing and
production of teaching/instructing materials for trainers and farmer
leaders. Special training kits or packages will be prepared for the PTP and
Disbun staff trained for farmer leader training responsibilities. Similarly,
packages for PMU assistant managers (training) and training assistants will be
developed and produced. Each trained farmer leader will be given a laminated
flipchart which illustrates the main technology and group development messages
emphasized during training and reinforced in follow-up extension activities.
The flipchart has a dual purpose. It enables the farmer leader to reinforce
communications with his group members and it also distinguishes him as a
farmer leader since the flipcharts are not available to the general public.
Pages of the flipchart which become damaged or obselete can be replaced and
financial provision for replacement is made in the project. In designing the
flipcharts the TCHRDP should work with AAMETE which will be responsible for the
design of similar materials for extension support in the partially assisted
areas of the subsector. Additional support materials such as posters and
illustrated handouts will be produced and given to the farmer leaders for
distribution to group members. Basic audio visual equipment (slide projector,
sound system, tool set, portable black or white board or flipchart) and
consumable training materials will also be purchased for the farmer leader
training program.
6.        The cost of laminated flipchart production, including art work,
field testing and assembly, is Rp 15,000 per unit. A bulk order for 21,000
units would be placed with AMETE or a domestic company at a total cost of
Rp 350 million (US$212,000) and would be distributed to farmer leaders during
the project implmentation period. Audio visual sets for the 14 NES/PIR
provinces, the 55 SECDP PMU training locations and the 150 non SEDCP PMU
training sites are budgetted at Rp 1.5 million each (US$909) for a total of
Rp 365 million (US$220,000). Consumable teaching/instructing materials
covering approximately 4.5 years of project implementation is an estimated
lump sum Rp 15.0 million (US$9,000) for the project implementation period.
1/ A Survey of the Training Needs of the Estate Crops Sector in Indonesia
DCG Manpower Working Group, 1985, also Feaibility Study for SECDP
(Volume IV SECDP Institutional Strategy) DGE, 1986.



ANNA 7
-85 -                            Page 3
NES/PIR Farmer Leader Training
7.        Training would be carried out by a combination of PTP field
supervisors and DISBUN II staff. Three training sessions per year per group,
for a total of nine days, would be implemented focussing on technology, group
dynamics and community development. Since NES/PIR farmers live in blocks, no
problem is envisaged with transporting leaders to adjacent central training
locations. The following steps would be taken to implement the NES/PIR farmer
leader training program:
(a) Identification and training of PTP field supervisors to become
trainers for the farmer leader training program;
(b) Training of DISBUN staff in group dynamics, leadership and
production techniques;
(c) Preparation of training materials (packages) provided by AAETE/LPP
for PTP and DISBUN farmer leader trainers;
(d) Designing farmer leader training program: including choice of
training sites and facilities;
(e) Implementing farmer leader training program supervised by DISBUN I,
provincial level staff.
Staff Training for the NES/PIR Farmer Leader Training Program
8.        Four PTP and four DISBUW II staff in each of seven project provinces
where NCS/PIR projects have reached conversion stage (Riau, South Sumatra,
North Sumatra, West Kalimantan, Lampung, Aceh and Bengkulu) will be trained to
manage the farmer leader training program. The 56 staff would be trained
together at LPP for a period of one month at a cost of Rp 400,000 per
participant for a total of Rp 22.4 million (US$13,600). The PTP and Disbun II
staff tesponsible for farmer leader training will, on average, spend 153
working days (6.4 MM) on this activity each year. Assuming an eight month
effective work year, there will be time for administrative duties but these
teams should be considered full-time trainers.
NES/PIR Farmer Leader Training Program
9.        The 750 2/ farmer leaders will be trained in batches of twenty or in
38 trainee groups. Each group would attend three three-day sessions per year
for a total of nine training days. The cost per farmer leader for each three-
day course is estimated at Rp 21,000 which includes daily round trip transpor-
tation, materials such as notebooks, handouts, and consumable trainers
materials, snacks and trainers allowances. The global cost of NES/PIR farmer
2/   In December 1987 data suggest that there are 627 farmers groups in the
-RSs/PIR projects but as more rubber is reaching conversion stage, a mid-
project implementation figure of 750 is used.



-86 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 4
leaders training per three-day course is Rp 21,000. Cost of training 750
farmer leaders each three times per year or 2,250 (750 x 3) times Rp 21,000 is
therefore Rp 47.25 million per year (US$28,464) or Rp 213 million (US$128,100)
for four and one half years of effective project training activities. Each
farmer leader would also receive a laminated flipchart (para 5) at a cost of
Rp 15.69 million (US$9,500) for the group. Staff training (para 4) costs
Rp 22.4 million (US$13,600). The grand total for NES/PIR farmer leaders
training for the duration of the project is therefore fp 251 million
(US$151,000).
NES/PIR Farmers in the Process of Reaching Conversion
10.       At present there are 94,000 farmers in the NES/PIR projects.  Some
14,000 have graduated to smallholder land title ownership-the conversion
phase. The farmer leaders from this group are those targetted in the training
program described in para. 9. The remaining 80,000 farmers require training
as they move towards the conversion stage. The more exposure to recommended
practices and group membership that is made available the better the skills
and attitude of the eventual smallholder. The project will support the
training of leaders from this category of NES/PIR smallholder farmers. The
target group is 4,000 farmer leaders, each representing twenty farmers in his
group. Farmer leaders will be trained in batches of twenty in 200 trainee
groups. Training teams will each be responsible for 17 trainee groups,
meeting with each three times per year. The methodology and cost will be the
same as for the already converted NES/PIR farmer leaders. Estimated annual
cost of the program is Rp 252 million (US$151,800). For 4.5 years of
training, tp 1.1 billion (US$683,100). Each farmer leader will also receive a
laminated flipchart (para. 5) as offered to the previous group. The cost of
supp-ying this item is Rp 84 million (US$50,600).  The grand total cost of
training NES/PIR farmer leaders not yet at conversion stage is Rp 1.2 billion
(US$733,700). Total cost of all NES/PIR farmer leader training including
staff training is Rp 1.3 billion (US$885,900).
Training PMU Farmer Leaders
11.       Two target groups of farmer leaders namely those in SECDP PMUs and
those in non SECDP PMUs will be trained during project implementation.
Approximately 2,800 leaders in the SECDP project, will be drawn from 103 PMUs
in the fourteen provinces. Training will be concentrated on 55 larger PMUs
created as a result of consolidating the 103 PMUs mentioned,earlier. Each of
the larger PMUs will have an Assistant Manager (Training) - asigned to the
farmer leader training program. Most of the technical training will be
handled by PMU staff with assistance from SECDP provincial and headquarters
training division staff for farmers organization and community development
training. In the event that additional training resource persons are
required, staff from agencies such as cooperatives and community development
3/ Under the first Smallholder Rubber Development Project (SRDP I) posts of
Assistant Manager (Training) were established at PMUs. Similar positions
were not granted to PMUs outside the SRDP.



- 87-                                 ANNEX 7
Page 5
would be invited to assist. Training would be carried out at the PMU site or
at a convenient local facility. A series of steps would be followed to bring
the PMU farmer leader program to implementation, included are:
(a) Training of trainers;
(b) Training package preparation;
(c) Farmer leader training program design;
(d) Program implementation under guidance of headquarters and provincial
SECDP managers.
Training of Trainers for the PMU (SECDP) Farmer Leader Training Program
12.       Responsibility for managing the farmer leader training program at
each of the 55 consolidated PMUs would rest with the Assistant Manager
(training). The SECDP planning group has drawn up a training program for
these new Assistant Managers based on experience gained with similar training
in SRDP I and II. The course will be implemented by SECDP/SRDP staff and
consultants. The cost per trainee is Rp 400,000 (US$242) for the one-month
program. The cost of training 55 assistant managees (training) is therefore
Rp 22 million (US$13,300).
Training Program for SECDP PMU Farmer Leaders
13.       There are an estimated 2,800 rubber and coconut farmer leaders in
the 130 PMUs served by the proposed SECDP. Four training sessions each of
three days duration would be offered to farmer leaders per year. Each trainee
group would have fifteen farmer leaders (note in the NES/PIR each trainee
group has twenty farmer leaders and participates in only three sessions
because of the superior facilities for training and the generally better
technical support given to smallholders by the PTPs) for a total of 187
trainee groups. The training program would therefore offer 748 courses per
year (187 x 4). The estimated cost of a three-day course per farmer leader is
Rp 28,000.  The annual cost of courses is Rp 313.6 million (US$189,000).  For
the four and one half years of project training implementation the grand total
is Rp 1.4 billion (US$850,500). Each farmer leader would, as in the case of
NES/PIR, receive a laminated flipchart (para. 5) for a total cost of Rp 59
million (US$35,000). The cost of staff training (para. 12) at Rp 22 million
(US$13,300) brings the grand total for SECDP PMU farmer leader training Rp 1.5
billion (US$898,800).
14.       The second PMU farmer leaders target group includes leaders in PMUs
other than those under the proposed SECDP. The number of these other PMUs is
367 with approximately 6,900 farmers groups. Training for these farmer
leaders would be conducted in a manner similar to that in the SECDP PMU group
(para. 9). Due to the uneven quality of the 367 PMUs in this category, 150
better managed PMUs will be chosen as training coordinating sites. Training
for farmer leaders will be conducted at these sites. Four three-day courses
per year will be offered to farmer leaders in groups of fifteen. Responsibil-
ity for training will rest with the PMU manager of the PMU training



- 88 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
coordinating site but the manager of any non-training coordination PMU whose
farmer leaders are attending a course is also expected to act as a trainer or
co-trainer. Training staff from the SECDP consolidated PMUs and from the
older established sixteen SRDP PMUs will act as supplementary staff for the
training being offered in the 150 other training coordinating PMUs.
Staff Training for the Farmer Leader Training in the Non-SECDP PMUs
15.       All 367 PMU managers will be trained by AAETE in a special two-week
course which will emphasize farmer leader training techniques, adult education
and the conducting of demonstrations and practical training activities. The
same managers will have already been trained in technical aspects of small-
holder rubber, coconut and coffee husbandry and primary processing activi-
ties. Funding for this special course is included in the TCHRD project and is
estimated ait Rp 300,000 (US$180) per participant. The total cost of training
PMU managers for farmer leader training is Rp 110 million (US$66,300).
Farmer Leader Training Program
16.       The approximately 6,900 farmer leaders in 367 PMUs would be trained
in groups of fifteen for a total of 460 trainee groups. Each group would be
trained four times per year by selected PHU managers, each course being three
days. The cost of a three-day course is the same as for the SECDP category,
Rp 28,000, including a calculation for honoraria for teaching staff.
17.       The annual cost of farmer leader training in this category is
Rp 772.8 million (US$465,500). This is obtained by estimating 6,900 farmer
leaders times 4 courses at Rp 28,000 each. For the 4.5 years of project
training implementation, this comes to Rp 3.5 billion (US$2.1 million). Each
farmer leader would also receive a laminated flipchart (para. 5) at a total
cost of Rp 144.3 million (US$86,900). Total cost of farmer leader training in
this category is therefore Rp 3.7 billion (US$2.3 million).
Training Farmer Leaders in PIR TRANS and KIK Programs
18.       The 3,000 farmer leaders in this category would receive three three-
day training sessions per year at a unit cost of Rupiah 21,000 per three day
activity. The emphasis will be on improved husbandry techniques and community
development. Training will be carried out by DISBUN trainers. Annual cost of
the training program is Rupiah 189 million (US$113,900). For the estimated
four years of training activities the cost will be Rupiah 756 million
(US$455,400). Each farmer leader will also receive a laminated flipchart at a
cost of Rupiah 17,000 for a total of Rupiah 51 million (US$30,700). Total
cost of farmer leader training in this category is therefore Rupiah 807
million (US$486,100).



- 89 -
ANNE 7
Page 7
Table 1: FARMER LEADER TRAINING /a
Unit cost
Annual training   per course       Total
No. of     Frequency and    per trainee       cost
Category                trainees        duration         (Rp 000)     (Rp 000)
NES/PIR (converted)           750   3 x 3-day/year           21        251,000
NES/PIR (nonconverted)      4,000   3 x 3-day/year           21      1,300,000
P W (SECDP)                2,800   4 x 3-day/year            28      1,500,000
PHU (others)               6,900   4 x 3-day/year            28      3,700,000
PIR TRANS, KIK              3,000   3 x 3 day/year           21        807,000
Total                 14,450                                     7,558,000
/a   Includes training of trainer costs and flipcharts.



III '  [ iMpl        Iijl    iii- 1 '
dI 111111 I~ [ 1tiI irk 34-11 
I]I   lI11 =-F-:-r-1   1         I
I0P IL -~ - - -I111 1 1I
*~~~ 



- 91-                   AN 9
TREK CROPS HUNAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
at'lmated Schedule of Disbursemnts
(in US$ million)
.................. ......................................................  ..
Indonesia
IBRD Fiscal Year             Disbursea.nts         Education
and Semester          ............... . ..........  Projects /a
Scmes-     Cumul-           Disbursement  Semes-
ter      ative       I      Profile %   tore
1989
lst.(Jul.88-Dec.88)      0.0       0.0        0%         0%          1.
2nd.(Jan.89-Jun.89)      0.4       0.4        2%         2%          2
1990
lst.(Jul.89-Dec.89)      0.6       1.0        5%         3%          3
2nd.(Jan.90-Jun.90)      0.6       1.6        8%         7%          4
1991
lst.(Jul.90-Dec.90)      1.4       3.0       16%        138          5
2nd.(Jan.91-Jun.91)      1.4       4.4       24%        20%          6
1992
lst.(Jul.91-Dec.91)      2.0       6.4       35%        31%          7
2nd.(Jan.92-Jun.92)      2.0       8.4       46%        41%          8
1993
lst.(Jul.92-Dec.92)      2.2      10.6       58%        51%          9
2nd.(Jan.93-Jun.93)      2.2      12.8       70%        60%         10
1994
lst.(Jul.93-Dec.93)      2.2      15.0       82%        70%         11
2nd.(Jan.94-Jun.94)      2.2      17.2       94%        78%         12
1995
lst.(Jul.94-Dec.94)      1.2      18.4      100%        86%         13
/a The Indonesia education disbursement profile represents the initial
six-and-a-half years of an average disbursoment period of eight year
/b The loan is expected to close on December 31, 1994.



ANNEX 10
-92 -                               Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Noultoring Indicators
Component                                                                        By due date
Establishing HRDU in DGE and Strengthening Mawgement and Technical
Capacity in Headquarters Staff
Employment of technical assistance team for HRD                              December 1988
Selection and posting of five full time counterpart staff for HRD
group in PIU                                                               November 1988
Preparation and agreement on technical assistance/counterpart
training program                                                            January 1989
Identification of training sites for HRD counterpart staff                    January 1989
Enrollment of first batch of HRD counterpart staff in advanced
training courses                                                              April 1989
Progress reports on technical assistance/counterpart training
program                                                                        Quarterly
Appointment of DGE headquarters staff for fellowships and short-
term training                                                              December 1988
Placement of DGE headquarters staff in advanced training courses        Begin January 1989
Completion of plan for short-term training program                           February 1989
Progress reports on technical training                                           Quarterly
Appointment of technical assistance to undertake management train-
ing activities for DGE headquarters staff                                  February 1989
Design of DGE headquarters management training program                            May 1989
Implementation of DGE headquarters management training program                   July 1989
Evaluation of DGE headquarters management training program (1st
phase)                                                                         July 1989
Selection of consultants to undertake the management information
systems study of DGE                                                      September 1988
Completion of MIS study                                                         March 1989
Implementation of MIS study recommendations                                From April 1989
Mid-term review                                                              November 1991
Strengthening Training Delivery Capacity of Subsector Institutions
Selection of trainee trainers, about 50 for AAITE about 56 for    AAETE - September 1988
the NES/PIR farmer leader training, 55 for SECDP and 367 for PMUs         September 1988
Agreement on training of trainers curriculum                                  Octobe'- 1988
Implementation of the Training of Trainers courses                   October-November 1988
Posting trainers to ISTCs in project provinces                                  March 1989
Implementation of training program for DISBUN and PMU staff         Begin 2nd quarter 1989
Selection of AAETE candidates for masters degree program                    September 1988
Phasing plan for masters candidates                                         September 1988
Placement of masters candidates                                         Begin January 1989
Progress reports on masters candidates                                           Quarterly



_ 93 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
Component                                                                          By due date
Strengthening Training Delivery Capacity of Subsector Institutions (cont'd)
LPP
Selection of Medan campus staff for advanced tralning                       September 1988
Identification of training courses for lMedan staff                           October 1988
Placement of Medan staff in selected programs                                   March 1989
Progress reports on Medan staff in training                                      Quarterly
Selection of LPP Yogyakarta staff for advanced training                     September 1988
Identification of suitable courses                                           December 1988
Placement of trainees                                                     1st quarter 1989
Progress reports on trainers                                                     Quarterly
Improving the Capacity of Subsector Staff to Boost Smallholder Pro-
ductivity by Providing Community and Management Training for DISBUN
and PMU Staff
Selection of technical assistance for management training needs
analysis, course design and materials preparation                             October 1988
Completion of needs analysis                                                   December 1988
Completion of course design                                                     January 1989
Completion - materials preparation                                                 July 1989
ImplementatAiet of training program                                           September 1989
Design of technical training program for DISBUN anw PMi4 staff       November/December 1988
Implementation of technical training program                                Ist quarter 1989
Evaluation of technical training program                                     Continuous 1989
Appointment of technical assistance for estates financi.al manage-
ment training program                                                        December 1988
Completion of needs analysis                                                      March 1989
Complettin of training course design                                                May 1989
Completion of case study writing and field testing                                  May 1990
Implementation of course program                                            1st quarter 1990
Evaluation of courses                                                        Continuous 1990
Procurement of computers and related equipment for the financial
management training program                                                     March 1989
Procurement of books and other teaching aids for Yogyakarta and
Medan                                                               March *989-March 1990
MOA Secretary General
Selection and placement of staff fo- advanced study                             March 1989
Procurement of computers                                                        March 1989



mu uois -nine.umuh            
llbol4er         t          d      e  o t          t      .   ta  D
end _eemt ofDten  toTelaa  e-  ano
ov rt-"M btoMauMonmaeae=mreoeo
ml" coetrdaint to                           ey volute for                 estimted ave          _      rNsMially            y1ielth In Iv
S ee crops              ineaeiug  innler prodeslo               emte  _ phal In training a  eti                                     felaer    dtible yil14  trainiand e_tum
Cot
di~tonsoa            Poer  inteme _e   potduc                peossbtipeilities islud-                 650 kg/he w.a. (atw        2,000".000 hg/b          730 k/nh p.*. (dy
pienter.             t ecnque inaf tiniest repletia.    _        miatanane _tl,d.           e to       ceI  equislent)           p.O. (day cope           MtI equivalent) of
peor trespwort, emicatio  and           fertUIer, removl Of *terle tAU                                       eqivalent)              iuprw_d qulity.
mketin   ytem. _    ittle intivesw      pal, pPat ad dinem recognition
to produce goad-quality -1pNW. en             to, and iaterceppig poi-
bilitiae.  ftecuseani, _a*etin  ed
ceo IeSetiv   omtiom. Deplantin
Pbilities.
Second-stag          Not epplicable. Cocont development      As for spontenacus planter but Ib-         not aplieue              2.500-3,500D  g/be        2.30-30  balm
development for      still bein  pland.                      aelgal  re_blStation MA  luding                                      p.- (dwr cr               p.. (A" cP
tren..itrents                                                lan  prepar_tio  etL4iboost a"                                         quIwalent)            euvalnt) of goa
miate_ance tehiques.                                                                              qality.
mtm                  Aging profile of Por gntic peotn-        btiounl tappg aytm according             330 balm p.a. (dE        700-0 hgbt p..             410  /U p-e. (
pleters              tialt poor _tlat_enc  lajuwriu          to true eod confttien. laprowed                rubber)           (dry rober) from l-         rubber) Of dpov
teppig mathods; no _anurlng  poor       t         tpping etadardo a" letex collec-                       proed qullty cle_1               qality.
traport and prrcessin  iratroe          tion end p_ocessn  ethods. tet                                          nteril 
tur; no price Incentive for qual-       Ne di egm  recgntio  ee actio.
it,.                                    intarerppin  pesbilitie. Wm
heting  dw cooperative feomatio.
DAPlatin  pedilitie.
Secoo-Stewe          Not epplible. Dbbar dvelope_t           LA for epontaoma plater but alo             Not applcable         900-,SOO 1a/he p.-.        900-1,300 kgha p,.s.
developnnt for       still being plead.                      with fuIl ior_tio  o led pr_p                                         (dr rubber)            (ry rubber) of god
tra_eniarete                                                 ration. estbllebnt Md    nte-                                                                      qlt.
Ron techique.
Spoeta               Crelt and _a*eti    pr turn her-        Imroend _iatenac  proede  With           40  Jhge p.-. (ry          1,000 hg/heia. P00 g/lhe pv.. (Ed
planter              vent of elrria  to get ceh; Poo         particular referen  to Pnt ad                g    bea)            (dry green >     from         gr   been) of
1le ofte oaintenane an proceee-         disase. pruning ene maurin. Cor-                                     Improved clona           imprvd quaity.
ain  procedure..                        rect harvestin  atag  and proce                                          t
citn. DerIeting MA coopeative
formation. Nopleatin  poedbill-
ties..
tt"-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,                                      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ANNEX 12
_95_
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Indonesia:  Estate Crops Manpower Development Project Preparation
Report. FAO/IBRD-CP, February 1986.
2.   A Survey of the Training Needs of the Estate Crops Subsector in
Indonesia. Working Group-Preparation Team for the Estates Crops
Subsector Human Resources Development Project, DGE, September 1985.
3.   Proposed Project Components of the Estates Crops Subsector in
Indonesia. Working Group-Preparation Team, September 1985.
4.   World Bank Appraisal Data Requirements:  DCE Human Resources
Development Project. Project Preparation Team DGE, April 1986.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Subsector
1.   Indonesia.  The Major Tree Crops:  A Sector Review, World Bank,
April 15, 1986.
C.  Working Papers
1.   Tree Crop Focus and Possible Impact of Training on Productivity,
May, 1986.
2.   Project Costs (COSTAS Listings and Tables).



-96 -
CHART 1
INDONESIA
TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure
PDOf rowmtor Gns
. .
POW         - m                    ar
L--------- Impsetio
UnR(lU
TectrJoA olu
RrnMo                            a-WQnd>_                              Adfmranbn
Training Needs                        Manpower     11ann
Aues~mn &                             Planig                               rora
Tring PRO                                and                               Cooraon
PNOWg                              Develop                              &&V0af
- -UpN an d oconbrl
-----Guidk, acedio
Wodd *-Wn30723:5



MAP SECTION



\- THAILAND    'do                      li1l4 i'                                              '/            it           
~~~~SKAd Ao.I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  \ ~~~~~~~INDONESIA
,Sod7h  Ch,ouo \ ),_./ \                                       x,    .   PHIUWINES    .,TREE CROPS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\   13    \     I ~~MALAYSIA\       Souih  China] ';oaBRNJ, 
X  f .   .z\                          s  , t .e _.s         i ' .                                                       i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OATM OF DISU MM PMU STF TRF
-,,-                                                                                                      TRA ,   ' ,   /  '  '  *A AEM: TRAF OF TFBRO
o._ 12  }   t)   '  MALAYSIA  /  17                 M.Od                                    S    PROVINCEHEADQUATERS
.'...SINGAPORE                          P-ROV.W                                                                                                 O -   NE  OUNDARIES
~~~~ ~~~~~                                        S                                  '<~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALMAAERA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  B
0'                           t   g                       I( As I I   A N   A N                               -
ixptj 1> 10                           _4I                                                                 2 14 > a @SW"i* t(18 oU' 1 t°eXs5
; \  \. /     >       G~~K4                              15                                          /1 -    ,   ,                  - 
D.K.I. JAKARTA                 A                                          5 -
2JAWA ERTA          '     \         e        >      \I/                                                 0      -S               
J.l. VOGYAKARTA                                                                                                                                                                       IRIAN JAYA
DA. YO~~~~oak.i
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
o LAMPUNG                                                                                                                                                                                    26 !
7 BENGKULU                                                                                                                                n
b  8 SUMATERASELATAN
3 FtJAUM                                                            Java    Sea
SUMATERABARAT                                                          .
17DIACEH                                                                                                                            B  a       ' A\S                                                       3
7  UMATERAUTARA                              J3AaARTA                                                                 7e
KIKALIMANTAN BARAT                           .U.A
KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                          3             LISA
KALI;MANTAN SELATN                                     5000
17 KALMANTAN TIMUR                                      $W          r
18SULAWSTN2Nb~
1Y SULAWESI UTARA               2       -              -'j/E'AWA
20 SULAWESISELATAN                                     4..7-AWA
21 SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                                                    (
22 BALI                                                                         00440  D
.  23 N   TENGARABARAT                    Indian  Oceani                              22           23                                                            B --f       DO    80o   400 ILE                10'
7, MALUKU                  lIo f              o,asw_      . __                                                                      27
26 IRIAN JAVA                                                                                          S DMSA    24                                               ITN DEBO  400 4500  600 700 BoO
27 TIMOR TIMUR                                                                                                   24
10W                    10W                    110'                   110 1E 1' 10'                                 1W                                             18                     1
DECEMBER 19e



