Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2992 IND
                    Loan Agreement
    (Tree Crops Human Resource Development Project)
                        between
                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                Dated October 31, 1988
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2992 IND
                    LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 1988, between REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
      Standard Modification of General Conditions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
     (a)  "AAETE" means the Agency for Agricultural
Education, Training and Extension in the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture;
     (b)  "DGE" means the Directorate General of Estates
in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (c)  "LPP" means a Lembaga Pendidikan Perkebunan,
Estate Training Institute of the Borrower;
     (d)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 of the
Agreement;
     (e)  "tree crop sub sector" means, inter alia, the
tree crops of rubber, oil palm, coconut and coffee; and
     (f)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million four hundred
thousand dollars ($18,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in the Bank of Indonesia on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1994 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per
annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
Page  3
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" mans the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.
          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each
year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
educational, financial and training practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. Without limitation on
the foregoing, the services of such consultants shall be
rendered in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Account
               for each fiscal year audited in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
Page  4
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than nine
               months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Bank such other
                    information concerning said records
                    and accounts and the audit thereof
                    as the Bank shall from time to time
                    reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Bank's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                       ARTICLE V
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.02. The Minister of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
Page  5
          Minister of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:           Telex:
               FINMINISTRY                   44319
DEPKEU-IA
               Jakarata                 45799 DJMLN-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
               By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                   Asia
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(1)    Consultants      2,000,000       100%
(2)    Overseas fellow- 1,700,000       100%
   ships
Page  6
(3)    Training of        300,000       100%
   trainers
(4)    Local training  11,300,000       100%
   (excluding con-
   sumable training
   materials)
(5)    Equipment,       1,700,000       100% of foreign
   vehicles, books                      expenditures,
   and journals                         95% of local
                                        expenditures (ex-
                                        factory cost) and
                                        65% of local ex-
                                        penditures for
other
                                        items procured
                                        locally
(4)    Unallocated      1,400,000
       TOTAL           18,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to improve
productivity in the tree crop sub sector by enhancing sub
sector manpower planning capability and building sub
sector capacity to develop its human resources .
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:
     Strengthening the overall capacity of the DGE to
plan, coordinate and monitor manpower and training for
tree crop personnel by, inter alia: (a) establishing
human resource development capacity within DGE; (b)
providing improved managerial and technical support for
field staff and small holders; (c) providing overseas
fellowships, and management and technical training for
about 50 DGE headquarters staff including six staff of
the Secretariat General, MOA and for about 70 DGE
headquarters staff, respectively; (d) carrying out a
study to improve the existing management information
system in DGE; and (e) provision, inter alia, of
equipment, materials, vehicles, books and technical
assistance.
Part B:
Page  7
     Strengthening training delivery capacity of DGE by,
inter alia: (a) training about 50 trainers for AAETE and
about 30 for LPP; (b) assisting LPP in carrying cut a
financial management training course; (c) institutional
strengthening of the LPP Yogyakarta and Medan campuses;
and (d) provision, inter alia, of equipment, vehicles,
materials, books and technical assistance.
Part C:
1.   Training for about 7,000 tree crop sub sector
personnel, inter alia, in management, financial and
technical areas in selected provinces, including Aceh,
Bali, Bengkulu, Jambi, East Java, West Kalimantan,
Lampung, Maluku, Riau, North Sulawesi, South Sulawesi,
Central Sulawesi, North Sumatra and South Sumatra.
2.   Training for about 17,500 farmer leaders in, inter
alia, technical and leadership topics in selected
provinces, including Aceh, Bali, Bengkulu, Jambi, East
Java, West Kalimantan, Lampung, Maluku, Riau, North
Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, North Sumatra
and South Sumatra.
3.   Provision of equipment, materials and technical
assistance for carrying out Parts C.1 and C.2 of the
Project.
                      *  *  *  *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1993.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in
dollars)*
May 1, 1994                                  340,000
November 1, 1994                             350,000
May 1, 1995                                  365,000
November 1, 1995                             380,000
May 1, 1996                                  395,000
November 1, 1996                             410,000
May 1, 1997                                  425,000
November 1, 1997                             440,000
May 1, 1998                                  455,000
November 1, 1998                             475,000
May 1, 1999                                  495,000
November 1, 1999                             510,000
May 1, 2000                                  530,000
November 1, 2000                             550,000
May 1, 2001                                  570,000
November 1, 2001                             595,000
May 1, 2002                                  615,000
November 1, 2002                             640,000
May 1, 2003                                  665,000
November 1, 2003                             690,000
May 1, 2004                                  715,000
November 1, 2004                             740,000
May 1, 2005                                  770,000
November 1, 2005                             800,000
May 1, 2006                                  830,000
November 1, 2006                             860,000
May 1, 2007                                  895,000
November 1, 2007                             930,000
May 1, 2008                                  965,000
November 1, 2008                          1,000,000
Page  8
     TOTAL                                18,400,000
_______________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.
                Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the
purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment            Premium
                              The interest rate (ex-
                              pressed as a percentage
                              per annum) applicable to
                              the balance outstanding
                              on the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                    0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but                       0.80
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but                       0.90
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                    1.00
     maturity
                      SCHEDULE 4
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
(the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment estimated to cost less than $200,000
Page  9
equivalent up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the  Bank;
provided  however,  that  equipment  estimated to cost
less than $20,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from at least three supplies eligible under the
Guidelines,  in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
2.   Books and journals may be procured through direct
purchase after negotiations with suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made cut of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs
(a) and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such
contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the world Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                      SCHEDULE 5
                Implementation Schedule
1.   The Borrower shall:
Page  10
     (a)  maintain under the direction of the Borrower's
Minister of Agriculture, a management Board with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
including setting policies and providing guidelines for
the Project Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph
1 (b) of this Schedule, such Board to include as members
the Directors General of Estates, AAETE, Agency for Agri-
cultural Research and development, the Secretary General
of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture and
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the
National Planning Agency;
     (b)   maintain within the DGE, a Project
Implementation Unit with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including preparing annual
budgets, maintaining project accounts, engaging
consultants, trainers and other staff, procuring equip-
ment and managing approved funds for all Project
activities, such Unit to be headed by a full-time Project
Manager reporting directly to the Director General of
Estates and provided with all such funds, staffing and
other resources as shall be required to enable it to
accomplish its purposes, including a human resources
development group comprising a human resource development
technical assistance team and about five full time staff
seconded from DGE Directorates aimed at assisting in the
preparation of manpower planning, training needs, and
training coordination programs and procedures;
     (c)  by December 31 of each year, commencing on
December 31, 1988, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for
its review and comments, a proposed budgetary allocation
for the various activities under the Project for the
following Borrower's fiscal year, and, thereafter, taking
into account the Bank's comments, if any, make the
required budgetary allocations for the following fiscal
year;
     (d)  by December 31 of each year, commencing on
December 31, 1988, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for
its review and comments, training programs including
selection criteria and procedures, for the following
Borrower's fiscal year, and, thereafter, taking into
account the Bank's comments, carry out such training
programs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (e)  by December 31, 1990, prepare and furnish to
the Bank, for its review and comments, detailed annual
plans for carrying out the human resource development
activities - other than the training activities - under
Part A of the Project, and, thereafter, taking into
account the Bank's comments, if any, implement such
detailed annual plans.
                      SCHEDULE 6
                    Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means all
Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  11
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special' Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made
as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the
Borrower for a deposit or deposits which add up to the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account for which the Borrower requests
replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior
to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3
of this Schedule, no further deposit into the Special
Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all
               further withdrawals should be made by the
               Borrower directly from the Loan Account
               in accordance with the provisions of
               Article V of the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
          (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
               allocated to the eligible Categories
               minus the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
               of twice the amount of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
Page  12
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special account will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount
for crediting to the Loan Account.
