CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 423 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 423 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 30, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1973, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By a development credit agreement dated November 17,
1972 (hereinafter called the Prior Development Credit Agreement) between the
Borrower and the Association, the Association granted to the Borrower a
development credit in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and seventy-five
thousand dollars ($175,000) (hereinafter called the Prior Development Credit) to
assist in financing the preliminary design and engineering work mentioned in Part
C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B)   The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   The Project will be carried out in part by the Egyptian Cotton General
Organization with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Egyptian Cotton General Organization the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Egyptian Cotton General Organization;
and
(E)   The Association is prepared to refund the Prior Development Credit
out of the proceeds of the Credit;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and


﻿4
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Egyptian Cotton General Organization of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Egyptian Cotton General Organization pursuant to
Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "ECGO" means the Egyptian Cotton General Organization established
in December 1961 pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1899 of the Borrower; and
(d)   "Ginning Companies" means the Cotton Ginning Companies named
as subsidiaries of ECGO in Article 2 of Presidential Decree No. 1106 of 1965
of the Borrower, namely:
(i)        Misr Cotton Ginning Company,
(ii)       the Arab Cotton Ginning Company,
(iii)      the Delta Cotton Ginning Company,
(iv)       the Al-Wadi Cotton Ginning Company, and
(v)        the Nile Cotton Ginning Company.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($18,500,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under this
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Asaciation.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
November 15, 1983 and ending May 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of ECGO is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part E of the Project through
ECGO with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ECGO to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary
or appropriate to enable ECGO to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall take or cause to be taken all action necessary
to facilitate the importation by ECGO of all equipment required for the Project;
and (ii) shall issue or cause to be issued as soon as needed all permits, import
licenses and other authorizations required by ECGO to import the said equipment.
(d)   The Borrower shall relend to ECGO the proceeds of the Credit relating
to Parts A to D of the Project (including the Prior Development Credit and the
amount mentioned in paragraph 3(a)(B) of Schedule I hereto) under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ECGO under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association including interest at the rate of six
per cent (6%) per annum plus a Ministry of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade
charge of two and one-half per cent (2-1/2%) per annum on the outstanding balance
of the Loan, and repayment in ten equal annual installments over fifteen years
(including five years of grace).
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that
ECGO maintains a sound cash flow and a sound financial position generally.


﻿7
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (i) review the results of the study by the
International Labor Organization of the effects of the Project on employment,
and (ii) not later than October 31, 1973 or such other date as the Borrower and
Association may determine send to the Association a program for carrying out
Part E of the Project prepared in consultation with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the performance
by ECGO of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the administration,
operations, resources and expenditures of ECGO and, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of ECGO
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement
or the performance by ECGO of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿8
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited represent tives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower fo purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ECGO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which makes it improbable
that ECGO will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;


﻿9
(c)   Presidential Decrees No. 1899 of 1961 and No. 1106 of 1965 of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in
such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of ECGO to carry
out its obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ECGO or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in par.graph (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ECGO have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ECGO, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the employment of the engineering consultants and the technical
advisor or advisors pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement; and
(d)   the establishment of a Project Management Unit and a Project
Coordination Committee pursuant to said Section 2.02.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿10
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ECGO and constitutes a valid and. binding
obligation of ECGO in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ECGO,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ECGO in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 30, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Economy
and Foreign Trade
Lazoughly
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
ECOTRADE
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ A. T. Khalil
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ G. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Epuipment, mate-              12,576,000         100% of foreign
rials and spares                                 expenditures
and installation
II.  (a)   Preliminary                175,000    )
design and                            )
engineering                           )
work under                            )
Prior Devel-                          )
opment Credit                         )
Agreement                             )    100% of foreign
)    expenditures
(b)  Engineering               1,273,000   )
and consult-                          )
ancy services                         )
excluding work                        )
mentioned in                          )
(a) ab ove                            )
III.  Training under Part            258,000          100% of foreign
D of the Project                                 expenditures
IV.  Retraining and re-              500,000          100% of total
employment under                                 expenditures
Part E of the                                    (not exceeding
Project                                          in the case of
local expendi-
tures an aggre-
gate amount of
$250,000)
V.   Unallocated                    3,718,000
TOTAL        18,500,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that: (A)
the Association shall with respect to Category 11(a) withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself on behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to
refund the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding of the Prior Development
Credit on the Effective Date; and any amount of the Prior Development Credit
remaining unwithdrawn shall automatically be cancelled on the same date; (B) the
Association shall with respect to Category 11(b) withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself on behalf of the Borrower administrative expenses made by the
Association on behalf of the Borrower after April 1, 1972 in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $53,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I, 11(b), III or IV
shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no
longer required therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;


﻿14
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Categories I, II(b) or III
shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
1 above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the
Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by
the Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably   determined   that the
procurement of any item in Category I is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association unde. the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's program for the modernization
and rehabilitation of the Borrower's cotton ginning industry and consists of the
following Parts:
A.    the rehabilitation of ten existing ginneries at Kafr El Sheikh, Kafr El Dawar,
Zifta, Kafr El Zayat, Biba, Dairut and Aboutig through (a) installation of
equipment largely involving (i) pneumatic and mechanical conveyance of
loose seed cotton from reception through the bulk stores and onto to ginning
or direct to the blending hall and then from blending to the ginning hall,
(ii) seed cotton distribution by scroll conveyor to feeder hoppers and
automatic feeding of ginstands, and (iii) conveyance of lint from ginstands
and automatic humidifying and trampling of lint into press boxes; and (b)
the modification as necessary of buildings and the electrification as necessary
of machinery;
B.    the construction of four new ginneries also equipped as above, two of which
will be single units of 72 ginstands each at Shirbin and Beni Suef and the
remaining twin units of 144 ginstands each at Etaya el Barud and Zagazig;
C.    provision of engineering and consulting services for Parts A, B and D of
the Project, including assistance in Project execution and commissioning and
the provision of such services for the preliminary design and engineering work
relating to Parts A and B as described in the Schedule to the Prior
Development Credit Agreement and for accounting and reporting services;
D.    a program for the training of workers to be cmployed in the Project ginneries
at vocational training institutes of the Borrower's Ministry of Manpower and
of other essential and supervisory personnel; and
E.    a program for the retraining and reemployment of workers likely to be
displaced by Parts A and B of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


