CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 423 UAR
Project Agreement
(Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EGYPTIAN COTTON GENERAL ORGANIZATION
DATED JULY 30, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 423 UAR
Project Agreement
(Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EGYPTIAN COTTON GENERAL ORGANIZATION
DATED JULY 30, 1973


﻿I
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
EGYPTIAN COTTON GENERAL ORGANIZATION (hereinafter called ECGO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($18,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ECGO agrees to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ECGO, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ECGO shall carry out in accordance with a schedule for Project
implementation agreed with the Association Parts A, B, C and D of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist ECGO in carrying out the said Parts of the
Project, ECGO shall (i) within 30 days of the date of this Agreement or such further
period as the Association may allow employ (A) engineering consultants for purposes
of Part C of the Project and (B) technical advisor or advisors, all of whom shall be
mutually acceptable to ECGO and the Association and employed upon terms and
conditions mutually satisfactory to ECGO and the Association, and (ii) within 60 days
of the date of this Agreement or such further period as the Association may agree
establish a Project Management Unit within ECGO and a Project Coordination
Committee, both of which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, ECGO shall
employ qualified and experienced contractors upon terms and conditions mutually
satisfactory to ECGO and the Association.
Section 2.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement except as otherwise
provided in paragraph A(2) of said Schedule.
(b)   If at any time the Association or ECGO, after consultation with each
other and with the Borrower, determines that any equipment or material cannot
be delivered on or prior to the delivery date set forth in the Project implementation
schedule and that such delay would adversely affect the completion of the Project,
ECGO shall promptly take all necessary action to procure such equipment or
material by such procedures as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. (a) ECGO undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ECGO
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ECGO shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) ECGO shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and


﻿5
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   ECGO: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. ECGO shall send to the Association by March 31, 1974 or
such other date as the Association and ECGO         may agree detailed proposals
satisfactory to the Association for the carrying out of the training program
mentioned in Part D of the Project and promptly thereafter take all necessary
action to implement the said program.
Section 2.08. ECGO shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights. in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ECGO
Section 3.01. (a) ECGO shall at all times manage its affairs and conduct
its operations in an efficient manner under competent and experienced management
and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
(b)   ECGO shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets if such sale, lease, transfer or disposal will adversely affect
the operation of ECGO's business and undertakings.
Section 3.02. ECGO shall at all times take all steps necessary on its part
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿6
Section 3.03. ECGO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ECGO shall cooperate with the Borrower in the implementation
of the retraining and reemployment program referred to in Part E of the Project.
Section 3.05. ECGO shall take all necessary action as may be agreed between
the Association and ECGO to improve employment and working conditions in the
ginneries to be rehabilitated or constructed under the Project.
Section 3.06. ECGO shall, where necessary with the assistance of consultants,
introduce within its organization and that of the Ginning Companies by July 1,
1974 or such other date as the Association and ECGO may agree improved
accounting, cost control and reporting procedures satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ECGO shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ECGO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of ECGO and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request; and (iv) except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, furnish to the Association as soon as available but not later than 30 days
after the end of each quarter and fiscal year, (A) its quarterly financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expense and cash flow), and (B) its
quarterly and annual forecast statements of cotton production, ginning and sales,
as well as its income and cash flow.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ECGO shall
take or cause to be taken all such measures as shall be required to retain from


﻿7
its earned surplus during the period of the carrying out of the Project sums
amounting in the aggregate to not less than twenty-two million two hundred
thousand dollars ($22,200,000) equivalent sufficient to enable it to build up its
equity and finance the local capital expenditures of the Project as and when due;
provided that as from the fiscal year ending December 31, 1973 ECGO shall at
the end of that and following fiscal years retain from its earned surplus a minimum
balance of 1,000,000 Egyptian Pounds to finance the local capital expenditures
of the Project.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ECGO shall
not incur any debt unless the net revenue of ECGO for the fiscal year preceding
the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve consecutive months ending
immediately prior to such date, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 2 times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt
of ECGO, including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:
the term  "debt" means obligations of ECGO which involve
interest or amortization payments, excluding debt incurred in
the ordinary course of business, and maturing not more than
one year after its date;
(ii)       the term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt; and debt
shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a loan agreement or, in the case of a guarantee of
debt, on the date of execution and delivery of the agreement
providing for such guarantee;
(iii)      the term "net revenue" means gross operating revenue, adjusted
to take account of dues and rates in effect at the time of
incurrence of debt even though such dues and rates were not
in effect during the fiscal year or twelve month period to which
such revenue relates, less all operating, maintenance and
administrative expenses and taxes, but before provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt; and
(iv)        the term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount
of amortization, interest and other charges on debt excluding
fixed return on the Borrower's investment in ECGO.


﻿8
Section 4.05. Until the proceeds of the Credit relent to ECGO under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement are fully repaid, ECGO shall consult with the
Association before it commits itself to any capital expenditure not required for
the Project if the aggregate of any such capital expenditure made or to be made
in any one fiscal year should exceed an amount equivalent to one million dollars
($1,000,000).
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and ECGO shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ECGO shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of ECGO and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and ECGO shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. ECGO shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of ECGO and of the Ginning
Companies related to the Project and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ECGO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿9
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ECGO of this event.
Section 6.03. All the, provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ECGO:
Egyptian Cotton General Organization
19 Gomhouria Street
Cairo
Cable address:
EGYCOTTON
Cairo


﻿10
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ECGO may be taken or executed by the Chairman of ECGO or such other
person or persons as the said Chairman shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ECGO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ECGO, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ECGO pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ G. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EGYPTIAN COTTON GENERAL ORGANIZATION
By /s / A. S. El-Nahal
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for equipment, materials or spares estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, ECGO shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ECGO shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, promptly inform ECGO and the Borrower, state the reasons for such
determination and advise ECGO of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    (1)   Purchases of single items below the amount specified in A(1) will be
governed as follows:
(a)   Single non-recurring purchases of up to $25,000 equivalent may be
made by ECGO at its discretion after due consideration of prices and other
conditions prevailing on world markets. Recurring purchases of up to $25,000 each
shall be subject to the Association's prior review.


﻿12
(b)   Single purchases of over $25,000 equivalent but below $100,000
equivalent may be made by ECGO at its discretion after procuring a minimum
of four comparable bids from qualified suppliers from at least four members of
the Bank (or Switzerland).
(2)   Two conformed copies of contracts awarded under paragraph (a) above
shall be forwarded to the Association prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal under the Credit.
(3)   Two conformed copies of contracts awarded under paragraph (b) above
shall be forwarded to the Association together with a copy of the analysis of bids
received by ECGO, prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal under the Credit. The Association shall promptly inform ECGO
if it is unable to concur with the award of the contract, in which event no
expenditure under such contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.    With respect to any contract for equipment, materials or spares estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, ECGO shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform ECGO and the Borrower,
state the reasons for such determination and advise ECGO of any cancellation
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
ECGO of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation
of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For goods included in Category I of the table set out in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin


﻿13
of preference to goods manufactured in Egypt in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt, if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added in Egypt
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt, other than
bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C:   bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid for Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


