Report No. PID4095
Project Name                     India-District Poverty Initiatives (@+) ...
Project-I (Rajasthan)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Social Development & Rural Development
Project ID                       INPE10505
Borrower(s)                      Government of India
Contact:
Mr. P.N. Bhandari
Additional Chief Secretary
& Development Commissioner
Government of Rajasthan
Secretariat, Bhagwandas Road
Jaipur, Rajasthan 302005
India
Tel:   91-141-383061
Fax:   91-141-383061
Implementing Agencies            Department of Rural Development
Government of Rajasthan
Environment Category             C
Appraisal Date                   November 9, 1999
Date PID Revised                 December 20, 1999
Projected Board Date             March 30, 2000
A.      Country and Sector Background
1.      As the Bank's 1997 Poverty Assessment reported, the incidence of poverty
in rural India was around 36.7 percent in 1993-94. In rural Rajasthan it
was about 47.5 percent. This encompasses people who live in resource-poor
regions; those who lack productive assets (especially land), skills or
capacities due to ill-health, disability or illiteracy; and those who are
inadequately organized to utilize available resources or services. Resource-
poor regions are also generally those where infrastructure such as roads and
markets are inadequately developed, which compounds the problems of
inaccessibility and low productivity.
2.      Since the early 1950s, the Government of India and the state governments
have implemented programs to develop the resources of such regions (e.g.,
land development, agriculture, irrigation, forestry, and water supply
schemes), or to directly address the poverty of disadvantaged households.
The direct anti-poverty programs (APPs) include efforts to provide wage-
employment, productive assets (such as land or animals), skills, credit or
food security. However, these programs are widely believed to have been
inadequately targeted and inefficiently managed and, therefore, not to have
been responsible for substantial poverty reduction. Also, there has been
inadequate synergy between regional resource development efforts and the
direct APPs. High levels of ill-health, low literacy among adults, and
prevailing social problems such as gender and caste discrimination, also



constrain the reduction of poverty. Low beneficiary involvement in government
programs has resulted in many being supply-driven, primarily by numerical
targets. Recently, several state governments (including those of Rajasthan
and the other two states in which District Poverty Initiatives Projects
(DPIPs) are being prepared, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh) have engaged
in major social development and decentralization efforts to improve the
acceptability, utilization and accountability of public programs.
3.      The over-riding objective of the Bank Group's efforts in India is
poverty reduction through assistance to accelerated growth with equity. The
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 1998-2000 proposes specifically to
assist India to develop innovative, direct poverty alleviation programs.
This project would be the first such initiative. The areas in which
investments would be made in this project -- social and human capital
development, infrastructure, agriculture and allied activities, natural
resource management -- are amongst the priority sectors identified in the
strategy. The CAS includes a focus on states with a commitment to economic
reforms and Rajasthan is embarking on a program of reforms with proposed
assistance from the Bank. Finally, the CAS aims to promote decentralization
and beneficiary participation in development, which are key aspects of the
proposed project.
B.      Lessons Learned from Past Bank-Assisted Operations
4.              Bank assistance to India has usually been provided to individual
sectors or sub-sectors in which the poor have been involved and have
benefited, but most often such assistance has not tackled the multiple
constraints faced by the poor. Nevertheless, some projects, such as the U.P.
Sodic Lands Projects, have shown that the poor wish to engage in multiple
activities in order to mitigate risk or participate more fully in
development, and that development effectiveness and sustainability may be
enhanced through a multi-sectoral approach, as is proposed in this project.
Several projects have sought to involve beneficiaries in planning and
implementing activities. Major lessons from amongst the more successful, such
as the Integrated Watershed Development Projects, Forestry, and Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Projects, include the demonstrated value of forming
user or community management groups, their potential to manage project
activities, the willingness of communities to contribute to infrastructure
and services if they are, in turn, guaranteed a quality investment, and the
viability of partnerships between NGOs and Government. In effect, several
Bank-assisted projects have shown the importance of community participation
and ownership to achieving efficiency and sustainability. Some projects have
also encountered difficulties, such as conflicts of interest in planning and
implementation, of which this proposed project is mindful.
5.                In addition to lessons learned from activities in India, the
proposed project has drawn on Bank experience elsewhere. Up to the end of
FY96 the Bank had approved 51 Social Fund projects in 34 countries, amounting
to commitments of over US$ 3.1 billion. The design of this proposed project
incorporates lessons from these operations as well as other projects aimed at
delivering basic infrastructure and services to the poor. The project opens
a "special funding window" to channel funds to communities which are
difficult to reach and for activities which do not form part of on-going or
planned investment proposals in the area. While project mechanisms would
reduce the burden on government agencies to undertake functions which are too
- 2 -



small or remote, the government would be encouraged to increase its own
budgetary contribution to the special funding window over time and
particularly after the project period. Various aspects of project design
also would incorporate the main lessons of experience, such as the functions
of the state and district-level project management units, sub-project
eligibility criteria, procurement and disbursement rules and regulations,
mechanisms for multi-sectoral coordination, Operational Manuals, computerized
management information system, accounting and auditing procedures, and
monitoring and learning.
C.      Project Objectives
6.              The proposed project aims to develop and test a new direct approach
in public efforts to improve the living standards of the poor in selected
backward districts of Rajasthan, with the ultimate objective of improving
the effectiveness of resources being spent on poverty alleviation. The new
approach is based on the development of institutional capacity for
participatory planning and implementation of small-scale sub-projects to
fulfill the priority economic and social needs of the poor. It involves (a)
mobilizing groups of poor people and enabling them to voice demand, choose,
plan and execute poverty-reducing interventions; (b) improving the abilities
of district and sub-district agencies, both governmental and non-
governmental, to 'hear', reach and serve poor clients, thereby increasing the
latter's access to social and economic infrastructure and services; and (c)
increasing the earning capacities of the poor through better organization,
enhanced skills and expanded employment opportunities.
D.      Project Description
7.      The project would include seven districts in the state of Rajasthan
(approximately 20- of districts in the state.)   The districts were chosen on
the basis of criteria relating to individual and household poverty, existing
economic and social infrastructure, current levels of governmental financial
support, institutional capacity, and natural resource endowments.
8.      DPIP is a "process project", meaning that many of its specific
interventions (sub-projects) would be prepared during the life of the
project, and then implemented. These sub-projects would be based on the
specific expressed needs and absorptive capacities of poor communities.
Social assessments have been carried out during project preparation to
identify the poorest communities, their priorities for intervention, and the
most effective mechanisms to reach them. The social assessments have
initiated the participatory processes to be used during project
implementation. Throughout the project the poor are to be presented with
opportunities to voice their concerns, plan and implement interventions along
with local decision-makers, and access and manage resources.
9.              The findings of the social assessments have guided the formulation
of the overall project implementation plan. The project would fund small-
scale activities at the village level that are not currently being financed
through existing programs. Funding would be arranged through a Community
Investment Fund established in each district (about 1.5 million people). The
project would build community capacities to ensure their participation in the
utilization and management of the district-level fund, and demonstrate a new
and effective way in which district administrations can respond to the
- 3 -



demands of poor communities, and deliver basic services to them. This
approach would create an environment for sustainable growth by strengthening
district development institutions, local governance (panchayati raj) within
the district, and the participation of civil society, particularly of the
poor and their local institutions.
10.             Hence, the proposed project would have three components:
Building and Strengthening Local Capacity to facilitate target beneficiaries
to actively access the goods and services which they need to improve their
living standards. This component would include: awareness building
activities in village communities; organization of functional groups;
skills training and technical support for user, producer, self-help or
women's groups. This assistance would mainly support the preparation of sub-
projects, pilot activities and demonstrations, and start-up of specialized
activities (including the provision of employment-related skills). In
addition to local organizations, it would also provide assistance to
institutions which support community-based development;
Community Investment Funds (CIFs) which would finance demand-driven,
community-based sub-projects in selected blocks and villages for improved
agricultural production, processing, and marketing; natural resource
management and related livelihoods, such as collection of minor forest
produce; off-farm and non-farm employment; infrastructure and social
services. The CIFs would cover investments in small-scale civil works,
equipment, supplies, incremental salaries, consultants and technical/support
services. While services needed for the implementation of sub-projects would
be provided by district line departments, assistance would also be obtained
by communities/beneficiary groups through contracts with private entities or
NGOs.   Investments would be financed in part through beneficiary
contributions; and
State- and District-level Project Management which would include the costs of
incremental staff; technical assistance/consultants; vehicles, office
equipment, supplies and incidental expenses; and monitoring and learning
systems, including some workshops and study tours, studies and documentation.
11.             A major aim of the project is to develop local institutional
capacity for community-driven development and to improve technical
capabilities where these are recognized as inadequate to the task of meeting
the needs of the poor in a given sub-sector. Hence, capacity-building would
be a specific component of the project. To assess available capacity and
understand the nature and scope of capacity-building required, District
Capacity Assessments have been carried out during project preparation,
covering district line departments -- staffing, budgets, training needs, etc.
-- and NGOs in each district. While a wide variety of NGOs, district line
department officials, and community representatives have already been
involved in the Social Assessments and District Capacity Assessments carried
out for the project, and preparation of the Project Implementation Plan,
there would be continuous efforts to identify institutions that could
undertake project development and implementation, and carry out project-
related training of government and non-governmental personnel and communities
(beneficiaries as well as others). In addition to NGOs, it is expected that
local private entities would also participate in the project, at the behest
of communities, who would be able to contract works and services to them, as
- 4 -



well as under contract with the DPMUs and SPMUs to provide specific inputs to
the project.
E.      Project Implementation
12.             The project would be implemented over five years.    Each district
would have a District Project Management Unit (DPMU) that would coordinate
its efforts with the Panchayati Raj Institutions and with relevant government
departments. The DPMUs would contract with NGOs which will engage Community
Facilitators (CFs) to provide information to communities about the project
and organize community groups among target beneficiaries. With the CFs' help,
the groups would prepare sub-projects to meet identified priorities to
address their poverty. Community-based committees (including
representatives of the groups, local government bodies, and NGOs) would
coordinate among groups and sub-projects. The sub-projects would be financed
from the Community Investment Funds (CIFs), managed by the DPMUs, with
authority for small investments being devolved to lower levels over time
according to local capacity. Group formation, proposal formulation,
community decision-making and management, and community contributions would
be key aspects for monitoring and evaluation of project implementation.
13.             The DPMUs would be responsible for technical and financial appraisal
of the sub-projects, for making adequate funds available on a timely basis to
the village communities, and for ensuring implementation/completion of sub-
projects. Technical support for sub-projects would be obtained by the
communities from private entities under contract or from district line
departments. The DPMU would also be responsible for forward planning of the
project including causing necessary 'pre-sub-project' or sectoral analyses
(technical, cost-benefit, etc.) to be carried out, and social assessments to
identify new areas to be covered, additional target groups and activities
(with the help of the SPMU where appropriate). Implementation would be
monitored on an on-going basis through a project monitoring and learning
system established by the SPMU and DPMUs, and periodic independent
evaluations will also be conducted.
14.             The project is predicated on a participatory approach, for which
information dissemination is critical. Beneficiaries would receive
information to participate in the initial project processes (e.g. group
formation and preparation of proposals), and they would also be informed
continuously about project achievements, expenditures, etc. through a
monitoring and learning system established in the project. The involvement
of panchayats at all levels would be an important aspect of participation,
and their roles in the provision of information, decision-making and
management of the project would be carefully built. The project also plans
'development audit' as a means to ensure information and accountability to
the public.
15.              In the project, a significant indicator of   "demand" would be the
extent to which communities are willing to contribute to investments.
Community contributions to a sub-project would be an important criterion for
its eligibility for project finance. Contributions could include cash, kind,
labor or beneficiary participation in project planning, implementation and
supervision. The percentage contribution would be based on what is
affordable by communities, with some flexibility being provided to
accommodate especially difficult circumstances. Different investments made
- 5 -



from the CIFs would attract differing percentage contributions. A schedule
of percentages would be worked out on the basis of empirical information
(including that from other Bank-assisted projects) and state government
policies and programs, and appropriate guidelines issued. Following
completion of the project, financial requirements would be mainly for
operations and maintenance (O&M) and would be met by communities.
16.             Eligibility criteria would be established for sub-projects in
addition to the community contributions criterion mentioned above, including:
targeting specifically at the poor (geographically and through groups); the
additionality of all project investments; a maximum sub-project size; short
time frames for implementation; phasing and aggregation of activities;
optimal community group sizes; community participation and management;
gender balance amongst beneficiaries; technical soundness of sub-projects
and consistency with good sectoral practice; technological simplicity;
availability of technical and institutional capacity; and sustainability.
The criteria would be publicized so that participating communities and groups
are aware of them, and they would be applied by community committees and the
DPMUs to screen proposals and make financing decisions. Technical
departments would also be aware of the criteria and responsible for ensuring
compliance with them. In addition to eligibility criteria for sub-projects,
criteria would also be established for the selection of implementing
entities, including community groups, NGOs, panchayats (local government
bodies), private sector and government agencies.
17.             Examples of the types of sub-projects that would be eligible for
financing include: economic infrastructure such as village approach roads,
community water/sanitation schemes, mini-irrigation works, pavements, and
marketplaces; social infrastructure such as village health posts and
literacy centers; training and equipment for services such as animal
husbandry or micro-enterprise development. Some items which the project
would be unable to finance would be: purchase or leasing of land;
rehabilitation or construction on private land; completion of unfinished
construction projects; major structural repairs to infrastructure;
technologically complex construction; luxury facilities that do not directly
increase the productivity of the poor (e.g. public administration buildings).
18.             Monitoring and evaluation are critically important for planning,
tracking, and making mid-course corrections in a "process" project such as
this, as well as for assessing its impacts. A rigorous set of monitoring and
evaluation activities has been designed as a learning system within the
project to track actions in each project component, from planning through
implementation, as well as expenditures in detail, and to measure impacts. A
management information system (MIS) will be developed. The monitoring
activities include qualitative assessments by beneficiaries. Evaluation will
be carried out by independent agencies, including quantitative and
qualitative surveys and special studies, to determine the targeting
effectiveness and development impact of the project.
F.     Project Financing
19.             The project would finance activities that are either outside the on-
going or planned activities of the district administration or that cannot
realistically be met by the government because of a shortage of resources.
Project funds are to be additional to finances already available and being
- 6 -



spent on development activities in each district, and interventions financed
by the project would differ significantly from on-going activities in the
district on account of the participatory and community-managed dimensions,
and also as the provision of funds for sequenced or linked proposals would
ensure completeness. There is unlikely to be duplication with on-going anti-
poverty programs, but the use of funds provided by these programs could be
coordinated productively to support project objectives.     Responsibility for
ensuring that project investments are additional and not just substitutes or
marginal supplements to on-going district programs would rest, importantly,
with the structures above and below the district level, i.e., the State
Project Management Unit and community committees, in addition to the DPMUs
and District Administrations (Collector).
20.     The total amount of the credit is around $ 100 million.    IDA will
finance up to 80t of the real incremental costs of the project in the target
districts. IDA funds will flow through the Government of India's (GOI)
Ministry of Finance to the state government and thence to the districts. The
GOI's Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) will oversee management of the
credit.
G.      Sustainability
21.     The project is expected to develop and demonstrate new approaches to
targeted poverty reduction. Given the state governments' concern with
poverty and current resource allocations to anti-poverty programs it is
expected that resources that are currently being utilized in less cost-
effective ways would be increasingly channeled into proven effective
activities. Project success would assist in a dialogue between the Bank and
the Government of India on improving the efficiency of the Centrally-financed
poverty alleviation programs by providing practical examples of implementable
and effective strategies and interventions.
H.      Social Aspects
22.             Social Assessments (SAs) have been carried out to identify the
poorest communities, and the poorest groups in "mixed" communities,
determine their priorities, appropriate areas for intervention, and the most
effective mechanisms to involve them in the project. The SAs have also
initiated a participatory planning process which is intended ultimately to
ensure that communities access and utilize project funds effectively. Social
assessments would be continued in the project to identify new areas, poor
groups, and activities for the project, and to provide feedback on on-going
project activities.
23.             The target population would be households belonging to disadvantaged
social and economic groups identified through social assessments in the
selected project districts. It would include important vulnerable groups
such as Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, women, female headed-households,
landless laborers, and backward occupational groups. Benefits to them would
include: new or improved skills; increased earning opportunities and
incomes; better organization; and greater access to productive assets,
infrastructure, and economic and social services. The approach adopted by the
project also allows identification of, and intervention for, groups such as
the disabled, occupational groups whose livelihoods are threatened, destitute
widows, etc. While social disadvantage may be a criteria for the formation
- 7 -



of certain groups and actions, it is expected that all groups formed would be
assisted through economic interventions. The poor populations of the proposed
project districts (which have been selected for their poverty and
backwardness using robust socioeconomic indicators) would also benefit more
broadly from improvements in the abilities of district administrations to
build infrastructure and deliver services in response to demand, and from the
resultant improved effectiveness (through targeting and ownership) of on-
going development programs.
24.              It is recognized that women are disproportionately represented among
the poor, and that female-headed households are amongst the poorest. In
addition, the gender division of labor, gender-based occupations, and gender
biases in access to resources and services have important implications for
the choice of interventions in this project. During the social assessments,
attention was paid to gender issues, and specific information has been
collected on the situation of women in the proposed project districts. The
project would pay continued attention to gender issues during implementation,
including planning, staffing, community mobilization, project interventions
and future assessments. Efforts would be made to ensure the participation of
females as well as males and, where necessary and feasible, special steps
taken to overcome gender-related handicaps (e.g., formation of women's
groups; attention to their health, education or child care needs; etc.)
I.      Environmental Aspects
26.     This project is in category B of the environmental classification.
While the project would encompass land, water, forest, agricultural and
animal husbandry activities, it is not expected to raise major environmental
issues as the scale of each activity in the project would be limited to a
village or cluster of villages (such as a micro-watershed). Hence, while the
project may have site-specific environmental impacts, it would not
significantly affect human populations or alter environmentally important
areas. No major or irreversible impacts are expected, nor are interventions
likely to require significant mitigation measures.
27.     Given the nature of operations under a Social Fund, any necessary or
desirable "micro" environmental assessments would be carried out during
project implementation. Sub-projects will be screened for their potential
environmental impact and assessments carried out wherever necessary. The
project encompasses the strengthening of district and state level capacity
for environmental assessment and management. Appropriate provisions will be
made for training and institutional strengthening. District project managers
would pay attention to the potential environmental effects of all project
activities, and ensure that proposed interventions are in keeping with the
Bank's Operational Directive and with environmental best practice.
28.     Several NGOs which work on environmental issues have been involved in
conducting the social assessments and district capacity assessments for the
project, and in the preparation of the project implementation plan. These
include field based NGOs; state-level research, planning and action
institutions; and a participatory research and training institute which has
been widely involved in rural development and natural resource management
activities.
29.     The project is not expected to involve major resettlement.    However,
- 8 -



minor issues may arise in the context of community proposals for construction
of village approach roads or minor irrigation facilities. Any potential for
people's land or housing to be affected would be identified at the sub-
project proposal stage, and appraisal of the sub-project would follow project
criteria to be established for such land acquisition. The project would seek
to avoid resettlement or, if this is unavoidable, to plan it carefully with
the full involvement of the affected persons as well as beneficiaries. In any
event, the project would follow the Bank's operational directives on
resettlement and rehabilitation (O.D. 4.30).
J.      Program Objective Category:     Poverty Reduction
K.      Poverty Category:     Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI)
L.      Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Meera Chatterjee
Task Leader
World Bank
70 Lodi Estate
New Delhi - 110003
India
Telephone: 91-11-4619491
Fax:        91-11-4628074
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 24, 1999.
-9-



