Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3339 IN
Project Agreement
(Rajasthan District Poverty Initiatives Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
Dated May 19, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3339 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and STATE OF RAJASTHAN acting by its Governor (Rajasthan).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-five million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR75,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Rajasthan agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement and in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Rajasthan, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Rajasthan declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project through SPMU and DPMUs, under the overall 
coordination of the Rural Development Department, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Rajasthan shall otherwise agree, Rajasthan shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan and the Operational 
Manual.
(c)
Rajasthan shall make available to SPMU and the DPMUs as a grant and in a 
timely manner (i) the proceeds of the Credit made available to Rajasthan by the 
Borrower, and (ii) additional funds from Rajasthan’s own resources in amounts 
sufficient to cover the expenditures required for carrying out the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Rajasthan shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitations thereto, Rajasthan shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Association and Rajasthan, a plan satisfactory to the 
Association for the future operation of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Rajasthan shall, at the request of the Association exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Rajasthan shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Rajasthan of their 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Rajasthan shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound financial 
management and accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of Rajasthan responsible for 
carrying out the Project, or any part thereof.
(b)
Rajasthan shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
Page  3
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
fiscal year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and accounts of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, and concerning 
such auditors, as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Rajasthan shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system in order to 
enable Rajasthan, not later than June 30, 2002, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period 
following the period 
covered by said report, and 
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period 
following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and 
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast 
implementation plans; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, Rajasthan shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 3.03. Rajasthan shall maintain during the Project implementation period 
a satisfactory computerized financial management system for the Project, in accordance 
with the Financial Management Manual agreed with the Association.
 Section 3.04. Rajasthan shall employ (i) accounting staff as specified in the 
Financial Management Manual referred to in Section 3.03 above, to ensure effective 
financial management of the Project, with experience and qualifications and in 
accordance with a timetable agreed with the Association, and thereafter maintain such 
accounting staff together with (ii) a chartered accountant as a Financial Manager also 
with experience and qualifications and on terms of reference agreed with the 
Association, throughout Project implementation.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
Page  4
Rajasthan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Rajasthan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Rajasthan:
Chief Secretary
Government of Rajasthan
Jaipur
Rajasthan, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Rajasthan may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Rajasthan shall designate in writing, and Rajasthan shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
By /s/ Edwin Lim 
Country Director, India
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
By /s/ R.N. Meena 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I. 
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with national competitive bidding procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
National  Shopping
(a)
Equipment and materials, excluding vehicles (other than for Part B of the 
Project) estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Vehicles estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$15,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Maps, proprietary equipment and items, spares, medicines, books, 
periodicals, software, semen, livestock, seeds, seedlings, plants and fertilizers 
(other than for Part B of the Project) estimated to cost the equivalent of up to 
$10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $600,000 equivalent; and 
(b) materials and equipment (other than for Part B of the Project) estimated to cost 
less than $500 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent for both (a) and (b) may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Works and Goods for Part B of the Project
Works and goods for sub-projects under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $102,560,000 equivalent, may be procured as 
follows:
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured either (i) under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
Page  6
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully, or (ii) through direct contracting with NGOs or community organizations, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, or (iii) through 
community participation procedures in accordance with paragraph 3.15(iii) of the 
Guidelines, or (iv) as a last resort, and with prior approval of the Association, 
through force account in acc
ordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the guidelines.
(c)
Goods estimated to cost less than $500 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $200,000 may be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and for their review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more,  and works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works estimated to cost less than $100,000, but more than $30,000, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, Rajasthan 
shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any such contract, Rajasthan shall 
provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
Page  7
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance or training estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
(a)
Consultants’ or NGOs’ services for technical assistance or training which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for their review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association  for their prior review and approval.  The contract shall 
Page  8
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Annual Plans
1.
Rajasthan shall not later than December 1 of each year, starting 2000, prepare 
annual action and procurement plans for implementation of the Project activities, and 
taking into account the Association’s recommendations, finalize, not later than \0b
February 28 of each year, such plans.
Project Management Staffing
2.
Rajasthan shall maintain the SPMU and DPMUs with the staffing and 
responsibilities agreed with the Association.
Sub-Projects
3.
Rajasthan shall cause the DPMUs to select and appraise the sub-projects under 
Part B of the Project in accordance with the criteria and procedures specified in the 
Operational Manual.
4.
Sub-projects shall be carried out on the basis of a Sub-project Agreement to be 
entered into between the respective DPMU and the Beneficiary Institution, under terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Association. Such agreements shall, inter alia, 
specify the type of sub-project as described in Part B of the Project, describe the 
works and goods to be financed, and  the cash or kind contribution of the Sub-project 
beneficiaries. 
Tribal Development Plan
5.
To ensure that the tribal population in the Project Districts benefits fully 
from the activities under the Project, Rajasthan shall implement, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association, the tribal development plan, agreed with the 
Association, for the tribal population in the Project Districts.
NGO Selection
6.
Rajasthan shall select the NGOs assisting in the implementation of the Project 
in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Association.
Monitoring and Mid-Term Review Evaluation
7.
(i)
Rajasthan shall engage, by no later than August 31, 2000, consultants to 
carry out a baseline survey of beneficiaries for the Project on terms of reference 
agreed with the Association.
(ii)
Rajasthan shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project  and the achievement of the objective 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than December 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project during 
Page  9
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by June 30, 2003, or such later dates as the 
Association shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Provision of Land
8.
Rajasthan shall (i) ensure that any private land needed for road improvement or 
other works under the Project shall be provided by the owner of such land in a 
voluntary manner, and in accordance with a memorandum of understanding, agreed with 
the Association, between the Beneficiary Institution a representative of Rajasthan, 
and the owner of such land; and (ii) not commence upgradation of roads or other works 
in locations where such land is needed until such memorandum of understanding has been 
concluded.
