                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000781




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-33390)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 75 MILLION
                       US$ 100.48 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                      FOR A

            RAJASTHAN DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT




                                  June 20, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective April 2008)

                  Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
                         Rs. 1.00 = US$ 0.256
                         US$ 1.00 = SDR 39.0

                           FISCAL YEAR
                         (April 1 ­ March 31)

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AG      Auditor General
BMCs    Bulk Milk Coolers
CAs     Cluster Associations
CC      Completion Certificate
CF      Community Facilitators
CIG     Common Interest Groups
CS      Country Strategy
DPMU    District Project Management Units
DPIP    District Poverty Initiatives Project
DRDAs   District Rural Development Agencies
DCS     District Corporative Society
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMF     Environmental Management Framework
EOP     End of Project
ER      Environmental Review
FIs     Financial Institutions
FMR     Financial Management Report
GoI     Government of India
GoR     Government of Rajasthan
IDA     International Development Association
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
IGPRS   Indira Gandhi Panchiyati and Gramin Vikas Sansthan
IRR     Internal Rates of Return
ISRs    Implementation Status and Results Report
LEA     Limited Environmental Assessment
LPD     Liters per day
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
M&L     Monitoring and Learning
MIS     Management Information Systems
MNIT    Malaviya National Institute of Technology
MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
NABARD  National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NABCONs National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Consultancy Services
NGO     Non-government Organizations
NRM     Natural Resource Management
O&M     Operation and Maintenance

PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PFTs         Project Facilitation Team
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PRIs         Panchayati Raj Institutions
RCDF         Rajasthan State Cooperative Federation
Rs.          Rupees
RTI          Right to Information Act
RUDA         Rajasthan Non Farm Development Agency
SHGs         Self Help Groups
SNF          Solids not Fat
SPD          State Project Director
SPMU         State Project Management Unit
SRIJAN       Self Reliant Initiatives through Joint Action
UC           Utilization Certificate
VDA          Village Development Associations




              Vice President: Praful Patel
            Country Director: Isabel M. Guerrero
     Senior Country Manager: Fayez S. Omar
             Sector Manager: Adolfo Brizzi
       Project Team Leaders: Asmeen M. Khan/Samik S. Das
           ICR Team Leader: Adarsh Kumar

                                                  INDIA

         RAJASTHAN DISTRICT POVERTY INITIATIVES PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 13
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 31
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 39
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 46
 Annex 9. Livestock and Dairy Sub-projects................................................................. 49
 Annex 10: Detailed Review of Environmental Compliance ....................................... 51
 Annex 11: Convergence with other Government Schemes.......................................... 53
 Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 55
 MAP IBRD No. 30820 ................................................................................................. 56

A. Basic Information

                                                                       RAJASTHAN
                                                                       DISTRICT POVERTY
Country:                India                   Project Name:
                                                                       INITIATIVES
                                                                       PROJECT
Project ID:             P010505                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-33390
ICR Date:               06/21/2008               ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              GOI
Original Total
                        XDR 75.0M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 70.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
State Project Management Unit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/05/1999    Effectiveness:         08/07/2000         08/07/2000
Appraisal:             11/10/1999    Restructuring(s):                         06/08/2004
Approval:              04/25/2000    Mid-term Review:                          07/24/2003
                                     Closing:               12/31/2005         12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  30               70
General education sector                                          10                5
Other social services                                             38               10
Roads and highways                                                18                5
Sub-national government administration                             4               10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other rural development                                          Primary        Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                              Secondary       Secondary
Rural non-farm income generation                                 Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Isabel M. Guerrero                  Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:           Adolfo Brizzi                       Ridwan Ali
Project Team Leader:      Asmeen M. Khan                      Meera Chatterjee
ICR Team Leader:          Adarsh Kumar
ICR Primary Author:       Adarsh Kumar



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The long-term goal of the project is to reduce poverty in the selected districts of
Rajasthan which are amongst the poorest in the state.             The project's development
objective is to improve the economic opportunities, living standards and social status of



                                                ii

the poor in selected villages of these districts by (a) mobilizing and empowering the poor
and helping them to develop strong grassroots organizations that facilitate access to and
participation in democratic and development processes; (b) supporting small-scale sub-
projects that are priorities chosen, planned and implemented by the poor; (c) expanding
the involvement of the poor in economic activities by improving their capacities, skills,
access to social and economic infrastructure and services, and employment opportunities;
and (d) improving the abilities of non-government, government and elected government
(Panchayati Raj) institutions to hear, reach and serve poor clients, i.e., to function in a
more inclusive and participatory manner.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                              approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years
               At least 50% of the targeted families who have been awarded sub-project earned
Indicator 1 :  additional income of at least Rs.5000/-per year sustainably by End of Project
               (EOP)
               Rs 17035 - 18615 per

Value          year for target BPL

quantitative orfamilies varies by 7      Rs 5000 per year                   Range of Rs 9760

Qualitative)   districts and depends if                                     to Rs 2284 per year
               drought year or non
               drought year
Date achieved 01/03/2000                 12/31/2007                         04/01/2008
Comments       Income depends on sub project average incomes are Rs 9760 for livetsock, Rs
(incl. %       6736 for Land based and Rs 2284 for micro-enterprise. Current annual income
achievement)   for BPL families is Rs xx

Indicator 2 :  Improved quality and quantity of goods and services available to people against
               baseline situation by EOP.

                                         10,000 CIGs and                    18,000 CIGs

Value                                    8,000 SPs of                       financed of which

quantitative orxx (details in base-line  which groups fall                  5,669 rated as

Qualitative)   survey)                   in to Nabard SHG                   category A or B by

                                         catagory A and B                   Nabard (70% of
                                                                            target)
Date achieved 01/03/2000                 12/31/2007                         04/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The Q and S rating was delayed and only 70% of groups were arted by the EOP.

achievement)   These groups are operating as SHGs and are linked with the Banks

Indicator 3 :  50% of CIGs approved are linked with other GO/NGO/bank developmental
               programs by EOP
Value          xx (details in base line  Rs 88 million in                   Some 2,467 CIGs



                                              iii

quantitative or survey)                    savings, 1000 bank                were linked to
Qualitative)                               linkages for Rs                   RCDF and about
                                           100 million                       5,000 CIGs were
                                                                             linked to large
                                                                             NGOs such as
                                                                             Srijan and Pradhan
                                                                             who have federated
                                                                             CIGs into clusters
                                                                             and producer
                                                                             companies, These
                                                                             CIGs have Rs 52
                                                                             million in saving
                                                                             and Rs 50 milion in
                                                                             Bank Linkages.
Date achieved 01/03/2000                   12/31/2007                        04/01/2008
Comments        of the 18,000 CIGs financed at least 50% have been liked to large NGos and
(incl. %        State dairy federation and their work will continue post project completion 3300
achievement)    Bank linkages have taken place

Indicator 4 :   Increased participation of poor and women in the village level organizations
                (Gramsabhas, PRIs, Users' group, etc.).
                                           3000 dairy CIGs
                                           formed part of
                                           District                          4347 Dairy CIGs
                                                                             formed linked to
Value                                      Cooperative                       DCS, 101, 000
quantitative or 0                          Society, 59,000                   cattle inducted and
Qualitative)                               cattle inducted
                                           and milk                          milk production 55

                                           production 35                     thousand litres per

                                           thousand liter per                day

                                           day
Date achieved 01/03/2000                   12/31/2007                        04/01/2008
Comments        Data from End-term-survey indicated social status of women improved by 16-
(incl. %        50%, and mobility and participation in Gram Sabhas by 27% in Churu to 80% in
achievement)    Jhalawar

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values      Target Years
                At least 100000 poor families are organized into CIGs and financed by EOP
Indicator 1 :   ,33% of CIGs who have been approved sub-projects, are active and sustained &
                3500 in clusters
                                           10000 CIGs                        2,743 CIgs were
Value                                      30,000 hhlds rated                members of Cluster
(quantitative   xx (details in base line   on Q and S                        Associations of
or Qualitative) survey)                    3500 covered in                   which 2,446 (89%)
                                           clusters                          were dairy CIgs



                                                iv

                                                                              linked to the RCDF
Date achieved 01/03/2000                  12/31/2007                          04/01/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Out of a total of 10 functioning cluster associations only two were non dairy

achievement)   (agricultural production and goats)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                 DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     12/22/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       3.53
  3     06/19/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       3.73
  4     12/26/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       4.03
  5     06/27/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       4.54
  6     12/24/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       5.44
  7     06/27/2003         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      7.96
  8     10/15/2003         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     11.69
  9     04/06/2004         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     31.32
  10    06/08/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      31.32
  11    12/13/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      37.79
  12    06/06/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      56.26
  13    03/04/2006         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     64.68
  14    06/02/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                     66.91
  15    12/22/2006           Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 69.06
  16    06/28/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      91.27
  17    12/19/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     103.98



H. Restructuring (if any)

                                 ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring      Board        Restructuring Disbursed at        Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                        Restructuring
                PDO Change                                             Key Changes Made
                                  DO       IP        in USD
                                                    millions
   06/08/2004                       S      S            31.32




                                                v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(from Project Appraisal Document)

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Rajasthan District Poverty Initiatives Project (DPIP) was started in response to the high
chronic poverty levels in Rajasthan. The World Bank's 1997 India Poverty Assessment reported
the incidence of rural poverty in Rajasthan at 47.5% as against the national average of
approximately 36.7%. A large proportion of the poor in the state live in resource poor regions,
lack productive assets (especially land), lack adequate livelihoods skills or capacities due to
illiteracy, are inadequately organized to assert their rights and utilize available resources and
services.    The state also continues to be plagued by high levels of gender and caste
discrimination. The bank's analytical reports on Rajasthan draw attention to the State's low per
capita income, lowest female literacy in the country (around 20 percent), worse than average
health status and extremely low status of women (only 27 percent of girls aged 10 years
complete primary school, compared with 57 percent for the country as a whole).

For decades, the Government of India (GoI) and state governments have been implementing
various anti- poverty programs providing wage employment, asset creation and extension
support programs designed to help lift poor households above the poverty line. However, for
the most part, these efforts have historically been poorly targeted, inefficiently managed,
fragmented and plagued by leakages. Government development programs are implemented
through a sizable government presence in the form of administration and technical agencies at
the district and sub-district levels. However, low beneficiary involvement in planning,
implementation and monitoring of these programs has resulted in many being supply-driven,
primarily by numerical targets.

The Rajasthan DPIP was conceived in response to the perceived short-comings of existing anti-
poverty efforts, seeking to improve project effectiveness in poverty alleviation by developing a
demand-driven approach in which the poor themselves identified the actions and investment
required, and took responsibility in their implementation. More specifically, the project sought
to enhance project effectiveness by: (a) implementing the project through a dedicated project
implementation structure with trained project staff that was distinct from the regular state
administrative structure at the State and District level; (b) involving multiple stakeholders
including Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) in working together towards mobilizing
community participation and building their capabilities; and (c) focusing on asset creation and
community empowerment to ensure sustainable improvements in the standard of living of poor
households that were part of the project.

At its inception, community ownership and contributions were to be the cornerstones of the
DPIP project. The project sought to establish the social institutional base for planning and
implementation of activities in a wide range of sectors and to bring together a range of public
and private entities, government agencies and community groups to work together on
implementing the project in a completely transparent manner. By espousing and applying
strong participatory principles, the proposed project sought to ensure that activities and
resources were targeted at those who needed them and would utilize them efficiently.

It should be noted that, at the time of project conception in 1999-2000, these elements of the
project were genuinely innovative and forward-looking for a government program. Since then,



                                                1

however, the rapid adoption of the Self Help Groups (SHGs) linked to commercial banks, the
passage of the Right to Information (RTI) act and the enhanced profile of Panchayati Raj
Institutions (PRIs) in many parts of the country has meant that many of the innovative aspects
of the DPIP program has become a part of flagship central government schemes. Similar
institutional structures and project elements were also adopted by Bank supported DPIP
projects in Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The long-term goal of the project is to reduce poverty in the selected districts of Rajasthan
which are amongst the poorest in the state. The project's development objective is to improve
the economic opportunities, living standards and social status of the poor in selected villages of
these districts by: (a) mobilizing and empowering the poor and helping them to develop strong
grassroots organizations that facilitate access to and participation in democratic and
development processes; (b) supporting small-scale sub-projects that are priorities chosen,
planned and implemented by the poor; (c) expanding the involvement of the poor in economic
activities by improving their capacities, skills, access to social and economic infrastructure and
services, and employment opportunities; and (d) improving the abilities of non-government,
government and elected local government (Panchayati Raj) institutions to hear, reach and serve
poor clients, i.e., to function in a more inclusive and participatory manner.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

· The project sought to target 350,000 poor households including socially and economically
    disadvantaged households, particularly Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, women,
    female-headed households and the landless in the following seven districts of Rajasthan:
    Baran, Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Jhalawar, Rajsamand and Tonk. This was revised to
    100,000 poor households when the project was extended in 2005.

· The poor in the proposed project districts were also supposed to benefit more broadly from
    improvements in the abilities of the district administrations and panchayats to respond to
    demand from poor clients, and from the resultant improved effectiveness (through better
    targeting and ownership) of on-going development programs.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The DPIP project had three main components:

· Capacity Building of and for the Poor. Project Cost: $15.5 Million

This focus of this component was to empower poor rural communities through the provision of
organizational, educational and technical support at the village level itself. Various training and
capacity building inputs were to be provided to aid the formation of strong community
institutions and improvement of levels of information and awareness amongst the target group.
The technical support was to be in the form of skill improvement, training for quality up-



                                                  2

gradation of products; building the institutional and infrastructural support. Training was to be
provided to all levels of people involved in the project, including personnel of the State Project
Management Unit (SPMU) and District Project Management Units (DPMU), line departments
and PRIs.

· Community Investment Funds. Project Cost: $99.84 Million

This component focused on financing demand-driven community based sub-project selected by
the Common Interest Groups (CIGs) or Village Development Associations (VDA). Each CIG
was required to contribute to the cost of the sub-project in the form of cash, material or labor.
The beneficiary group was also responsible for maintenance of assets created. In the case of
micro-enterprise activities each beneficiary was to be motivated to develop saving habits and
the savings were to be deposited in to a group fund, from which small loans may be taken by
members and returned.

· State and District Project Management. Project Cost: $6.14 Million

This component focused on financing incremental operating costs, staff; technical assistance;
consultancies; vehicles; office equipment; supplies; workshops and study tours, monitoring and
learning systems including continued social assessments, studies and documentation.

1.6 Revised Components N.A

1.7 Other significant changes

During the November, 2005 Implementation Review Mission the Bank team along with the
Project authorities prepared a Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP) for the
project.

The GAAP focused on enhancing Public Accountability through:

    · Enhanced Information: Operationalized the Government's Right to Information Act
         and the Bank's disclosure provisions in the Rajasthan DPIP by simplifying disclosed
         material and making them readily available, particularly at the district and village level,
         and on the project web-site.

    · Broad Stakeholder Review and Oversight at the Village, District and State level -
         this included enhanced Gram and Ward Sabhas to report on project activities,
         enhanced role of the District Collector in monthly monitoring meetings, inclusion of
         NGO members on the project "empowered" committee to provide input from the field.

    · Independent Complaints Handling Mechanism: established a special unit, that
         reported to the Secretary Rural Development, Rajasthan, designated to receive and
         handle complaints. The complaint handling unit investigated and facilitated the
         resolution of complaints and problems; created a database of complaints, follow-up on
         actions being taken, and sanctions applied. These were posted on the web-site.

    · Strengthening of sanctions and remedies: this included developing a rating system
         for NGO service providers and dropping those that were non-performing.




                                                3

     · Enhanced supervision: the SPMU enhanced its overall monitoring and independent
         supervision of field activities, particularly third-party monitoring. IDS conducted
         process monitoring of the project and several of the fiduciary concerns highlighted in
         the mission were identified by the IDS team.

The GAAP was the one of the first "Transparency and Accountability" action plans introduced
into Bank funded projects in India.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

During preparation, the project design took into account existing lacunae in government
programs and lessons derived from several ongoing and completed bank-financed rural
development projects in India. The project also brought in key policy and institutional reforms
which were under way in Rajasthan (and other parts of India) in the areas of poverty reduction,
decentralization, fiscal management and administration. These included:

· Social mobilization and improved people's participation in implementation and
    management of programs through engagement of local workers and group-based
    approaches;

· Increasing the voice of the poor, particularly in local-level resources allocation, and
    improved targeting of programs, especially for women and other disadvantaged groups;

· Addressing people's right to information and increasing accountability of public
    institutions;

· Lean and professional management structures and better deployment of staff;

· Flexibility and local adaptation of training, delivery systems, procedures and norms;

· More equitable use of public assets (e.g., land, water resources, public buildings);

· Involvement of local government bodies (PRIs) in management, and of mechanisms such
    as "gram sabhas" for voicing and redressing grievances, decision making, etc.; balancing
    PRIs with wider people's organizations;

· Involvement of NGOs in training, services delivery, social mobilization, rendering of
    technical assistance and other support services, and government-NGO partnerships;

· Collection of community contributions for capital as well as operation and maintenance
    (O&M) costs.

The innovative features of the project led to increased project complexity and introduced a
number of substantial risk factors in managing implementation and achieving project
implementation. The project design identified and highlighted these risks, as well as suggested
appropriate measures to mitigate most of them. The following were the risk factors identified at
the inception of the project:




                                                4

                    Risk                       Risk                         Mitigating Measures
                                             Rating
Caste and class tensions are not                       The project would include consultations and collaboration with
contained to enable the poor to benefit from           potential 'negative stakeholders and resolve conflicts wherever
project processes and resources.                 S     possible

Technical support services are not available           Capacity would be developed by the project over time to fill
or not of sufficiently high quality to ensure          gaps and improve quality.
lasting investments.                            M


Adequate credit is not made                            The project would strengthen the ability of groups that require
available to the poor through                          credit to access FIs ­ the capacity building activities would
financial institutions (FIs).                   M      enable them to become credit-worthy, and would also train
                                                       bank staff to facilitate their dealings with the poor.
Beneficiary contributions are                          The project focuses on establishing sustainable ownership by
inadequate to support O&M to                           ensuring choice, group management, and partially self-
sustain infrastructure investments               S     financed construction up front, and own-managed and self-
                                                       financed O&M.
Adequate funds are not made available in               The state government has shown its
time by the state finance department to the            commitment to the project by setting aside funds in
project, including counterpart funds.                  anticipation of DPIP for the past three financial years. The
                                                M      financial management system envisages a quarterly release of
                                                       funds from GOR to SPMU on the basis of funds forecast
                                                       requirements for the
                                                       next two quarters.
Adequate institutional support does not                The project will track needs over time and ensure the timely
exist or cannot be treated in time for skills          design   of    alternatives    when   required    (e.g.,  engaging
training,   marketing     or  other    needs    M      appropriate skills, institutions, from other parts of the country).
identified in community
proposals.
Natural resources that are needed, such as             Project design has flexibility to develop non-resource
land or water, impose severe constraints on            based activities, alternative employment.
the planning or implementation of sub ­         M

project proposals.
Negative reaction of non-poor groups or                The project would share information and consult with these
spokespersons for non-poor groups, (e.g.,              stakeholders during implementation; it would involve the PRIs
politicians, PRIs) to project investments       M      and local NGOs in social intermediation. In whose benefits,
being directed                                         while intended mainly for the poor, would extend to
solely at the poor.                                    communities at large, e.g., rural roads, school, health clinics.
NGO- government interactions                           The project would develop networks of
become problematic or unfruitful.                      NGOs so that they can assist each other,
                                                 S     engage in a meaningful dialogue with the
                                                       government agencies involved and resolve any
                                                       conflicts that may arise.
Possible reaction of mainstream                        The project flexibility provides for alternative
government line departments                            involvement of private service providers.
against involvement of                                 However, the project would make every effort to involve line
NGOs, resulting in low                                 departments in positive ways. The district level committee has
collaboration with the project.                 M      been designed with this in mind. The project would evolve
                                                       ways to provide non-monetary incentives for department staff
                                                       to collaborate well. The political visibility of the project would
                                                       minimize this problem over time and good linkages would be
                                                       developed between these and other local institutions.
   Risk Rating-H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk),M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



                                                      5

However, significant lacunae were present in the project design phase which has adversely
affected the implementation and outcomes as part of the project. The following were the key
lacunae in the design phase:

    · No clear plan to involve PRIs listed in project documents despite it being listed as a
        significant project outcome.


    · Despite highlighting the possibility of NGO government interactions becoming
        problematic, contracts developed for NGOs were unclear on defining tasks, conditions
        for payment as well as timelines. No scope for effective arbitration was provided within
        the scope of the project in case of disputes between project staff, NGOs and private
        partners.


    · Overall, implementation timelines and intermediate goals were not addressed in the
        PAD or the PIP.


2.2 Implementation

The project received unsatisfactory ratings on achievement of Project Development Objectives
(PDOs) and implementation progress on four different review missions during the project
period. Of particular concern from the inception of the project was the Project Management
Component, which received unsatisfactory ratings on six review missions through the life of the
project. Key positions remaining vacant; frequent changes in key project personnel; lack of
appropriate criteria for selection of project management staff; and lack of training and capacity
building of project staff were significant problem areas throughout the life of the project.

The start-up phase of the project was slow, with limited disbursements, due to problems with
project staffing and bureaucratic procedures involved in contracting service providers to form
CIGs. The SPMU was short-staffed, both at the state and district level, and went through a
series of project directors that affected the continuity of the project. The Bank also conducted a
mid-term review in December 2003 which found significant problems with the project and
flagged the slow implementation and low disbursements till that period. Due to the slow pace of
implementation and disbursements, only 50% of the funds had been disbursed at the scheduled
close of the project on December 31, 2005.

The Bank worked with the borrower in 2005 to restructure project management, reorganize
tasks and responsibilities, and adopt procedures that facilitated the achievement of the PDO
while extending the project by two years to its revised closing date of December 31st, 2007. The
results framework was changed to reflect a greater focus on quality and sustainability of
Common Interest Groups (CIGs) formed as part of the project and on creating cluster level
federations focused on specific economic activities of the poor. The following changes were
made:

    · Achieving Quality and Sustainability indicators: In response to the focus on only
        numerical targets in group formation, the results framework was amended to include a
        focus on assisting the groups to achieve National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
        Development (NABARD) guidelines on group sustainability and operations so as to
        enhance group quality and sustainability as well as facilitate linkages to banks. This


                                                 6

         was a change from the original project implementation plan, where there was no focus
         on building the capacity of the groups to operate as a Self Help Group (SHG).

    · Formation and capacity building of cluster level federations ­ To enhance capacity
         of CIGs as well as ensure sustainability post project period, and to reflect the failure of
         the project to organize Village Development Associations (VDAs) as originally
         envisaged, the results framework was amended to reflect an increased emphasis on
         cluster development efforts. The DPIP project sought to federate CIGs working on
         similar economic activities into cluster level federations and link these federations to
         markets.

    · Bringing in apex support partners to create market linkages ­ In response to the
         lack of expertise within the project management teams at the state and district levels on
         technical aspects of economic activity promotion and federations, including creating
         marketing linkages, national NGOs with expertise in specific areas such as
         microfinance and building federated groups were brought into the project to assist
         project staff and undertake implementation of specific aspects of the project in the field.

Organizational Arrangements

A separate implementation structure - The State Project Management Unit (SPMU) ­ was
established as part of the Government of Rajasthan's Rural Development Department. The
SPMU was originally envisaged as a lean entity headed by a State Project Director (SPD), and
staffed by an experienced professional for each of the following functions: Training and
Community Development, Sub ­ Project Appraisal, Financial Control (heading the finance and
accounting function), Financial Management, Monitoring and Learning, and other support staff
as needed. It would oversee the functioning of the District Project Management Units (DPMUs).

DPMUs were established to ensure that DPIP ­financed activities were coordinated with the on
­ going or planned activities of line departments and Panchayats and did not duplicate or
conflict with interventions under other schemes. Project management was not placed in the
District Rural Development Agencies (DRDAs), which are directly funded by the Central
Government, in order to enhance its potential to involve and impact other district and state ­
level departments. Another key role of DPMUs was to ensure that the various project ­ related
entities collaborate and wherever appropriate, that synergies were achieved between them. This
mechanism was intended to improve the responsiveness of local service delivery institutions to
the poor in the short term, and to assist in the transfer of successful project experience across
agencies for greater project impact and sustainability.

Institutional Arrangements at the Community Level

Common Interest Groups (CIGs) were the key community-level organization within the project
that would form the basis of all project activities. CIGs were formed among poor people living
within a proximate geographic area that made it feasible for them to come together to plan,
manage and implement small-scale projects of their choice. These groups were organized and
assisted by community facilitators (CFs), who were local community residents hired by local
non governmental organizations (NGOs). The CFs and their host NGOs worked with the CIGs
to prioritize their needs and develop appropriate sub-projects, arrange for these to be appraised,
technically assisted by government line departments or private agencies and financed, and
helped to manage and implement them. The CIGs were to be fully responsible for
implementation of the sub-projects, and for post investment operations and maintenance.


                                                 7

Approximately 23,078 CIGs covering 247,868 individuals were formed as part of the project,
of which 17,485 CIGs covering 197,568 individuals created economic activity plans that were
approved, funds transferred to their accounts and assets purchased for CIG members.

Assessment of Implementation of Project Components

Capacity Building of and for the Poor. Rating: Marginally Satisfactory

The overall objectives of this component of forming strong, sustainable organizations amongst
the poor and empowering them through capacity building was not implemented as originally
envisaged by the project. Under this component, the plan to create Village Development
Associations and facilitating their interactions with the gram panchayat so as to give them a
greater voice vis-à-vis local governance and district level government development agencies
was not implemented. The main reasons for the deficiencies in implementation under this
project component were:

· Complex objectives - The objective of creating village level federated institutions and
    linking them to PRIs was a complex objective that required multiple tasks to be completed
    in the appropriate sequence by multiple actors including the CIGs, SPMU and DPMU, the
    NGOs and the cluster facilitator.

· Project design weaknesses - The project implementation plan at the design and initial
    implementation phase did not adequately reflect the complexity of the objectives under this
    component. It did not explore methods through which PRIs could play a meaningful role in
    the project and neither did it list contingency plans in case the close coordination between
    NGOs and DPIP project staff that was required for the success of this component was not
    able to be achieved. Quality of group formation was also not given adequate emphasis at
    the project design phase.

· Lack of focus by project staff ­ The objective of empowering the target community
    through forming village and cluster level federations was not given adequate importance in
    the project till 2005, when vacancies in project staff were filled and implementation
    procedures revised with inputs from Bank staff, and the project closing date was extended
    by two years.

After the revision of procedures a focus on building cluster-level economic federations was
introduced in 2005. A total of 12 such federations were created which covered approximately
3,500 CIGs. Of these, eight were dairy level cluster federations that were promoted by the
Rajasthan State Cooperative Federation (RCDF) who were brought into the DPIP project as
partners in 2003. RCDF helped organize diary CIGs and village federations, provided technical
support in forming economic plans and purchase of appropriate dairy animals, and linked the
CIGs and federations to its existing milk procurement and marketing network. These dairy
clusters have a high degree of sustainability since RCDF is a well-established entity and will
continue milk procurement operations, as part of its core business.

As part of the revision of the project implementation plans, a greater emphasis was also put on
meeting quality and sustainability indicators for CIG groups formed through the project. These
indicators were based on the NABARD guidelines for well-functioning SHGs. Nearly 5,669
CIGs (24% of the total CIGs formed) were able to meet these ratings out of a total number of
10,536 CIGs that were evaluated under the project.



                                                8

Community Investment Funds. Rating: Satisfactory

Despite the slow progress under this component in the initial phase of the project, the last three
years saw substantial improvement in implementation performance. Pending service provider
contracts were processed and a greater focus on monitoring results led to an increase in the
number of CIGs whose economic activity plans were formed, approved by DPMU and SPMU
staff, funds transferred and assets purchased. Funds were transferred directly to CIG accounts at
the village level, thereby ensuring that the money reached the intended beneficiaries. A total of
23,078 CIGs were formed under the project, of which the economic activity plans of 17,485
(76%) were approved and funds transferred to them. Of these CIGs, 49% were animal
husbandry groups. Given that Rajasthan is a predominantly arid state and most poor households
are dependant on livestock as a source of rural livelihoods, this was a natural choice for CIGs to
select, unlike non-farm livelihoods which in many cases were new and unfamiliar skills. In
addition, SPMU and DPMU staff made significant efforts to converge with on-going
government programs to benefit DPIP project beneficiaries. An estimated additional $35
million was mobilized through government schemes including health, drought relief, joint
forest management, tribal housing, watershed management and employment guarantee schemes.
In many cases CIG mobilization was financed through the project and asset creation financed,
through convergence with the government program. A detailed estimate of funds mobilized, by
district and program is given in Annex 11.

In the final four years of the project, 84 NGOs were recruited as partners to carry out
community mobilization of CIGs, conduct quality and sustainability evaluations of the group,
assist the group with forming economic activity plans and submitting these plans to the DPMUs
for approval.

State and District Project Management. Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

In addition to funding the human resource and infrastructure requirements of the project
management unit, this component also placed emphasis on training and capacity building of
project staff, partner NGOs and community level para-professionals so as to create a cadre of
trained professionals that would outlast the project. Specifically, this component sought to
strengthen the ability of district line departments, NGOs and private technical agencies to
respond to community demand driven proposals, better target efforts and deliver better quality
services to the poor in a timely manner. These objectives were not met.

Frequent transfers of project staff led to short tenures of staff in key positions, and the inability
of the training programs to keep up with these frequent staff changes meant that no significant
capacity-building of key staff to manage poverty alleviation programs took place as part of the
DPIP project. Frequent transfers were also a key issue for the post of Project Director. Nine
project directors over a five year period hampered continuity of project implementation strategy
and decision-making. The lead training agency chosen for the project, Indira Gandhi Panchayati
and Gramin Vikas Sansthan (IGPRS), also did not have the capacity and the specialized
technical expertise to handle training requirements for project staff and partners.

Given that the DPIP project sought to introduce many innovations and was complex in design,
training and capacity building of staff and partners was a key step in ensuring proper
implementation. The lack of training and capacity building of staff and partners resulted in
unsatisfactory implementation at various periods during the life of the project.


                                                  9

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Rating: Satisfactory

(a) M & E Design

The project emphasized the need to build ownership of the monitoring and learning (M & L)
system among potential users, and proposed to accomplish this by involving project managers,
NGO implementers, and identified beneficiaries in the detailed design of the system to ensure
that only relevant data was collected and that the data collected were analyzed and used by
them. System design focused mainly on four result areas; (a) empowerment, mobilization and
the capacities of the rural poor; (b) CIG's access to productive assets, infrastructure and
services; (c) administrative and local governments capacities to meet the development needs of
the poor; (d) changes in vulnerability and poverty.

Given the objectives and expected results of the project, a M&L system was designed with four
key components. These components were: (a) Performance tracking; (b) Process monitoring;
(C) Development audit; and (e) Impact evaluation. Performance tracking was to monitor
progress in the requirement and training of staff, formation of groups, sub-projects initiated and
completed, financial flows, and benefits accrued. This component was to be linked to the
information and technology of the financial management system required by the Bank. Process
monitoring was to focus on the critical aspects of project learning such as CIG skills in group
activities, decision ­ making, and important events in CIG project life cycle. Development
audits were to contribute to increasing transparency, accountability and efficiency of the project,
by assessing the effects of the project from the perspective of different stakeholders. Impact
evaluations would establish the net effects of the project on poverty reduction and the capacities
of the poor. It would assess the changes in poverty levels, changes in capacities to utilize
recourses and exploit opportunities; and changes in poverty causing factors such as debt, ill­
health and natural disasters.

Implementation Rating : Satisfactory

The implementation of the Monitoring and Learning system has been rated as satisfactory
throughout the life of the project. Performance tracking systems were designed within the first
two years of the project, and Institute of Development Studies (IDS) Jaipur was hired to carry
out process monitoring. Tasks under process monitoring included CIG group self-assessment
templates, peer review across project entities at all levels to aid intra-group learning, and
studies of "successful" and "unsuccessful" groups and economic activities. The project also
developed a well designed web-site which hosted updated MIS information by district on the
location of CIGs and the portfolio and status of projects financed.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

(a) Financial Management Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project financial management system was documented in a 'Financial Management
Manual' at the inception of the project that was intended to serve as reference document for all



                                                10

project staff. The financial management procedures were to be periodically updated based on
implementation experience and any significant changes in the manual were to be made in
consultation with the Bank. The manual covered the              following aspects of financial
management: budgeting and flow of funds; accounting system (including chart of account,
formats of books, accounting and financial procedures: financial reporting (including formats of
reports, and linkages with chart of accounts): staffing and training aspects relating to financial
management procedures for project staff; auditing arrangements including terms of reference;
procurement and contract administration monitoring system; financial and accounting policies;
and service standards (benchmarks) for various accounting and financial activities.

During the life of the project, the flow of funds always remained satisfactory. However,
implementation of the financial management procedures were weak in the initial period of the
project, as the action plan for financial management agreed upon during project negotiations
remained unimplemented for some time. Problems in this area included vacancies in key staff
positions, including that of Finance Manager; and delays in installation of the computerized
financial management system at the SPMU and DPMUs. Remedial measures were taken by the
borrower, with Bank advice, to improve financial management. These measures included filling
key vacancies, training of all project finance staff, and appointment of project internal auditors
and installation of the computerized FMS at the district level. However, staffing remained an
area of concern throughout the life of the project. Frequent transfers of key financial
management staff at the SPMU and DPMU levels resulted in a lack of consistency and
continuity in actions taken.

Towards the later years of the project, The DPMUs managed to computerize the financial data
at the district levels; however the compilation at the SPMU was still being done manually. The
project started implementing the accounting software `Tally' during the last two years of the
project aiming to have the same accounting software at all location and electronically compile
the financial statistics at SPMU, which remained incomplete at the end of the project. This was
mainly due to the reason that the focus of the finance teams (at SPMU as well as DPMUs)
shifted to ensuring that the sub projects were completed, completion certificates were obtained;
and reconciling the physical progress with the financial expenditure charged to accounts. This
shift proved more beneficial comparatively and as a result, the project managed to successfully
close and obtain Completion Certificates (CCs) for 98.7% of the total sub projects that were
funded. This ensured a very satisfactory closure of the sub projects from a financial as well as a
program accountability perspective; recording the actual expenditure of the project in the books
and not disbursements. This also ensured a successful financial closure of the project from the
Bank's perspective.

Even though the financial management systems of the project were weak in the beginning and
could not be fully computerized till the closure; the project made tremendous efforts in the later
years to ensure financial accountability, though manually, and achieved success in this
important aspect as stated above. The financial management of the project should therefore be
rated as moderately satisfactory.

As per guidance from the Bank and as stated above, the focus during the latter part of the
project shifted from disbursement for new sub projects to successfully closing the ongoing sub
projects. This coupled with the exchange rate variations resulted in net disbursements of SDR
70.34M at the end of the project period in lieu of the signed IDA amount of SDR 75.00M. The
remaining amount of SDR 4.66M was cancelled at the end of the project.




                                               11

The external Audit for 2007-08 is still to be initiated by the Auditor General (AG). It is
important that the project maintains adequate staff at the SPMU and DPMUs for getting the
accounts audited for 2007-08; and the audit report is submitted to the bank by September 30,
2008.

Environmental Compliance Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The DPIP had an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) that focused on helping the
project to better address the linkages between environmental degradation and poverty.
Preventing environmental degradation as a result of individual or cumulative effect of
subprojects was a key focus of the EMF; and on facilitating proactive subprojects that were
expected to lead to improvements in environmental quality. Overall, the compliance with
environmental safeguards originally envisaged in the project was moderately unsatisfactory.
Both the nodal agency, as well as key staff positions, relating to implementation of the EMF
were not in place for significant time-periods during the project. While a meaningful system
and relevant tools for environmental assessment were developed as part of the project, the
implementation of the same weakened over time due to inadequate institutional mechanisms
and lack of adequate support for staff in the field. A more detailed review of institutional
arrangements, assessment processes and tools, supervision interventions relating to
environmental compliance is given in Annex 10.

Procurement Issues Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Procurement of Livelihood Assets
This project was unique in giving ultimate financial responsibility of procurement of livelihood
assets directly to the community groups formed. In all but a very small number of instances,
community procurement worked efficiently and the money was used for its intended purpose.
At the SPMU and DPMU levels however, the lack of dedicated and specialized procurement
staff led to problems with procurement issues, especially on contract management with NGOs.
Decisions on procurement were made by financial management staff at the SPMU and DPMU
levels which weakened internal controls.

Contracts with Implementing Agencies and Partners
Poor contract administration with implementing agencies and partners was a serious lacuna in
the project. Open ended contracts, with unclear outputs, led to conflicts between project
management staff and implementing agencies and partner NGOs at both the SPMU and DPMU
level. Unclear payment terms in the contract also resulted in arbitrary decision-making on
approval of payments, with several implementing partners claiming outstanding dues at the end
of the project period.

A special fiduciary review mission was launched by Bank staff to examine allegations into
corruption by the NGOs and their staff. Based on the mission's findings fiduciary red flags
were identified and a Governance and Accountability Action Plan was prepared (see 1.7). In
addition detailed procedures were prepared for the selection and procurement of animals
especially cattle. Overall the Project Management Unit did follow-up on many of the Bank
supervision mission's recommendations on procurement and contract management; and the
overall rating for procurement is rated as Moderately Satisfactory based on the performance of
the borrower over the life of the project.




                                              12

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

A concept note has been prepared by the borrower for the next phase of the project. The
borrower wants to expand the project to enhance livelihood opportunities of the poor in all the
districts in the State. The International Fund for Agriculture and Development is supporting a
similar project that takes the experience of the current phase of the DPIP project into account,
in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer districts of the State. The Borrower wants the Bank to support a
second phase project in the districts of Southern Rajasthan as well as the remaining districts of
Western Rajasthan not financed by the IFAD-supported project. The project would build on the
successful clusters and CIGs rated as "A" and "B" class by NABARD, and develop new
clusters based on the implementation lessons learned from the first phase.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project was in line with both the Government of India's and the Bank's objectives of
making economic growth more inclusive and reducing poverty. Specifically, it focused on the
Bank's goal, stated in the Country Strategy (CS), of creating more and better jobs and
livelihoods opportunities, especially in rural areas in the State of Rajasthan.

The key objective of the Bank Group's assistance to India is to reduce poverty by accelerating
economic growth with equity. The Country Strategy specifically proposes to develop
innovative, well-targeted programs to reduce poverty. This project was similar to two other
District Poverty Initiatives Projects launched with Bank support in Andhra Pradesh and
Madhya Pradesh. It sought to make investments in social organization and development,
human capital development, agriculture and allied activities, natural resources management,
infrastructure and non-farm livelihood opportunities. Finally, the project aimed to promote
decentralization and beneficiary participation in development, key aspects of the Country
Strategy, by direct financial transfers for economic activities to Common Interest Groups
(CIGs) formed.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Measured against the revised project development targets agreed upon during the negotiations
for project extension, the project has attained a "moderately satisfactory" achievement.
Achievement of project development objectives was expected to be measured using a results
framework with key performance indicators agreed upon by the Government of Rajasthan and
the Bank during negotiations. Due to the slow pace of implementation and experience from
field operations, the results framework was revised in June 2005 after discussions between
Project Management and Bank staff.

Overall, the main achievements of the project were to catalyze the formation of Common
Interest Groups at the village level and to fund economic activities that enhanced the livelihood
opportunities available to the target population. The main shortfalls in achievement relate to the
empowerment aspects of the project development objective. Deficiencies in project planning,
lack of coordination between various stakeholders, frequent changes in project management
staff and slow implementation at the outset of the project led to various shortfalls in the quality



                                                 13

of group formation, as well as various other activities designed to enhance the voice of local
communities.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness)

Approximately 18,000 CIGs received funding for creation of livelihood assets under the DPIP
project. Of these, 4,795 (27% of total groups) covering approximately 50,000 households were
centered on a non-farm livelihood activity. These covered 48 distinctive activities, although 3
activities (Retail Trading, Tent House and Readymade Garment Stitching) accounted for almost
50% of the total groups and the top 15 activities accounted for 85% of the groups. Animal
Husbandry related activities comprised the largest component of the DPIP project, accounting
for 8,555 (49%) of all the CIG groups created. Natural Resource Management related activities
comprised only 14% of activities initiated.

Overall, sample Internal Rates of Return reviews at the CIG level suggest that the highest IRRs
were from non-farm livelihood activities, which showed median rates of returns on investment
of 126% over a five year period. However, anecdotal evidence suggests that non-farm
livelihood activities are also the most difficult to sustain given the complexities in market
linkages and the fact that the activity may not be indigenous to the target communities.
Functioning CIGs around dairying and goat-rearing seem to have had significant impact on the
incomes and living standards of member households at the CIG level itself. The returns on
dairying activities ranged from 25-36% and the returns on goat-rearing activities ranged from
8-9% when their earnings were extrapolated over a five-year period. For Natural Resource
Management (NRM) activities, the range of IRRs are extremely varied with the minimum
observed being 3% return on investments and the maximum being 300% return on investments.
Land levelling activities had extremely large IRRs due to the fact that no cultivation was taking
place on uneven land prior to the project intervention. In forestry and orchard activities, it was
observed that such activities have a long gestation period, up to ten years to reach full-
productivity, and that the project period was not sufficient to ensure sustainability of the
activity.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory: The project achieved a satisfactory rating on the Community
Investment Fund component, which is the largest component of the project. More than 100,000
poor households in the project district covering more than 175,000 individuals received a direct
economic benefit in the form of a physical asset being created. However, the other two
components of the project that focused on building the capacity of the poor and of government
departments to respond better to community-needs received moderately satisfactory and
unsatisfactory ratings respectively. As outlined in the detailed results framework above, slow
implementation at the outset of the project resulting in a bulk of Community Investment Funds
disbursed in the last two years of the project; and lack of coordination between various
stakeholders led to low achievement of the empowerment dimensions envisioned at the outset
of the project.




                                               14

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

A major focus of the DPIP was organizing poor Below Poverty Line (BPL) individuals into
groups and providing them with assets. Over one-third of the groups (6,275) were women's
groups covering some 96,000 individuals. Of the total number of CIGs, some 7,800 had women
as chair-persons of the groups. In Baran, a predominantly tribal district, Sahariya tribals
received cattle and became members of RCDF, acquired special low-cost housing and received
access to natural resources and wage labor through participation in joint forest management
activities. During stakeholder discussions, women commented that acquisition of assets and
additional income had reduced the amount of wage labor they engaged in outside of the house,
and provided them with income to invest in education and health. The IDS impact evaluation
also indicated trends in terms of: increased incomes of BPL households through increased
expenditures on food, clothes and social expenditures; creation of assets including acquisition
of land; and enhanced women participation in decision making, measured in terms of
participation in village meetings, mobility and household decision-making.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Partnership with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) for project implementation was a
major innovation in project design. The project was unique as it built upon existing best-
practice from various Government-NGO partnership models to deliver project inputs, including
capacity building, through collaboration with NGOs. The role of the NGO in the project, as
envisaged, was forming and sustaining CIGs, which entailed group formation, awareness
building, group performance rating, and capacity building of CIGs. However, during the course
of project implementation the envisaged collaboration arrangement with NGOs evolved into
one of conflicting paradigms.

The initial contracts with NGOs did not deliver as planned on outputs, which are key indicators
of progress. As a result, most NGOs contracted at the start of the project struggled to deliver on
formation of CIGs and preparation of sub-projects. This resulted in low disbursement and slow
physical achievements, leading to an unsatisfactory project rating.

In order to address this issue, the NGO selection process was restructured and contracts were
redrafted based on outputs with a stipulated amount allocated for payment on completion of
specific task. Thus, collaboration became contractual in nature wherein the emphasis on
partnership slowly ceased to exist. The project emphasis on collaboration moved away from
focus on project outcomes to tasks completed and payment received. Moreover, this situation
lead to conflict between the project and NGOs on payment made against task delivered.

Another important issue was the structural constraints within the project that were not
conducive for fostering and managing partnerships. This was related to project leadership, and
lack of staff capacity and experience to manage NGO partnerships.

Irrespective of these issues, there were many NGOs who worked within this paradigm of
delivering outputs for payments. Though less than ideal, these NGO supported CIGs and their
capacity development, and these groups continue to be sustained. The Government of Rajasthan




                                               15

has recognized these issues, and is willing to sustain partnerships, but taking on board the
lessons learned to date.

The lesson learned from working with NGOs for project implementation, includes not only
independent identification and selection of NGOs, but contract management, conflict resolution,
balancing between outputs with outcomes based agreements and payment systems, and having
competent human resources to manage these partnerships.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
  (Creation of physical assets leading to enhancement of livelihood opportunities)

As outlined in section 3.3, the main theme of the project was the creation of physical assets
amongst members of the target community. Despite the deficiency of the project to promote
clusters to the level originally envisioned, livelihood activities have had significant impact on
the incomes and living standards of member households at the CIG level itself due to the
creation of a livelihood asset coupled with the macroeconomic growth in the state over the past
few years.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(details in Annex 6)

The Bank held a series of stakeholder workshops covering project beneficiaries and
stakeholders including partner NGOs, implementation support agencies and project staff. The
following were the main points raised at the workshops:

         · The baseline survey was poorly defined and developed. Use of non-uniform survey
             design made data consolidation and time-series comparison difficult resulting in
             difficulties in accurately gauging the true impact of the project. The importance of
             sounds statistical base-line and impact methodology has to be clearly defined at the
             onset of such projects.

         · A range of stakeholders including government agencies and NGO partners reported
             strained relationships with project staff. This was due to arbitrary changes in
             payment conditions, which in turn reflected the poor quality of initial contracts
             signed with these service providers.

         · Multiple stakeholders reported the frequent change of project management and
             bank staff as hampering the quality of implementation and continuity of the project.
             One stakeholder also raised the issue of the frequent turnover of bank supervisory
             staff and its effect on continuity in decision-making.

         · Stakeholders suggested that training of SPMU and DPMU staff as being critical to
             proper implementation. Many stakeholders felt that project staff often did not have
             the aptitude or conceptual understanding of the project and were not convinced of
             the benefits of the program.

         · Different organizations for group formation, training and market linkages resulted
             in diffusion of responsibility and no ownership in results, except in the case of the
             Dairy sector where RCDF was responsible for all the steps in implementation from
             group formation to creating market linkages.




                                                 16

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Medium: There are risks to the main development outcomes given the late initiation of
project activities and the lack of strong institutional structures being built as part of the project.
Due to late initiation of project activities, cluster federations formed have not had adequate
technical support to be sustainable post project period. Quality and sustainability of groups
have also not been achieved to the desired level. As outlined above, larger empowerment and
institutional development features of the project that sought to increase the voice of the poor
and create mechanisms by which government and NGO partners would be more responsive to
community needs were not achieved. However, it should be noted that a high proportion of
dairy and livestock CIGs have been linked to RCDF and large professional NGOs such as
Srijan and Pradhan. These groups will be sustainable post-project period since they have been
connected to local milk procurement cooperative societies, and market linkages are in place.
Some 1,501 dairying groups, approximately 18% of all CIGs formed as part of the project, are
linked to RCDF and supplying milk through their procurement and marketing network.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory: The innovative features of the project led to increased
project complexity and introduced a number of substantial risk factors in managing
implementation and achieving project implementation. The project design identified and
highlighted these risks, as well as suggested appropriate measures to mitigate most of them.
However, there were serious lacunae at the design stage including lack of a clear plan for
involving PRIs, lack of effective arbitration mechanisms for resolving stakeholder conflicts,
and poor design and execution of the baseline survey.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory: Overall, Bank supervision was conducted with rigor and
professionalism. A total of 16 review missions (199 staff weeks) were conducted over the life
of the project. Detailed Aide Memoires with agreed actions and recommendations from Bank
staff for improving implementation were shared with Borrower. The Bank also, through an
Australian Trust Fund provided technical assistance and supported learning study tours and
cross-visit for project staff. However, frequent changes in Bank Team Leaders during the first 4
years contributed to the inability of Bank supervision to adequately respond to slow
implementation as well as serious lacunae in the quality of implementation. Key problems that
were not addressed early on included inadequate training of project staff, limited grasp of
project objectives by key project staff and conflicts between different stakeholders in the
project. This issue is also highlighted in the borrower's report.




                                                 17

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory: The overall rating of the Bank's performance reflects the
Moderately Satisfactory rating given to ensuring quality at entry and the effectiveness of bank
supervision in addressing lacunae in project implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory: During project preparation, the State government's
leadership and active participation was exemplary. The government continued to take a strong
interest in project implementation, setting up a Governing Council and an Empowered
Committee comprising of senior government functionaries to oversee policies strategies and
operational issues as part of the project. In 2005, when the project experienced serious
problems at the project management level, the state government stepped in and brought in an
experienced senior Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer to put the project back on track.
However, late initiation of project activities led to an extension of the project and endangered
the sustainability of CIGs and livelihood activities promoted.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory: Despite the final disbursement targets, there were serious
lacunae in project implementation at specific periods during the life of the project. This
included initial unsatisfactory ratings on financial control measures; withdrawal of NGO
facilitators and staff due to non-renewal of contracts; lack of implementation of environmental
safeguards and audits; and lack of accountability of DPMU and SPMU staff. Frequent staff
turnover (including of the Project Director) and lack of training of key staff to help them grasp
key features and objectives of the project remained a problem area throughout the life of the
project. This has also been highlighted in the comments sent by the NGO partner (Annex 8.);
though the project management unit who prepared the borrower's report does not identify this
as a serious issue.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory: Overall, the Borrower rating reflects the satisfactory rating
on the implementation of the Community Investment Fund component of the project and the
Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for Implementation Agency Performance.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

    a) A gestation period of one year at the outset of the project should be set aside for setting
         up project management infrastructure, training of staff and formation of partnerships
         with outside stakeholders.

    b) Intermediate outcome goals need to be agreed upon between Borrower and the Bank
         and clearly listed in the PAD and the PIP so that deviations from acceptable
         implementation standards can be identified sooner and correctional measures initiated.




                                                18

c) An independent arbitration system comprising representatives of all stakeholders in the
   project needs to be instituted in projects where close coordination and cooperation of
   multiple stakeholders from government, civil society and private sector are crucial to
   successfully generating impact.

d) Guidelines for minimum tenures for project management staff as well as lead Bank
   staff supervising the project needs to be instituted to ensure accountability for outcomes
   as well as continuity in decision-making.

e) A set of standard guidelines listing minimum acceptable standards for baseline surveys
   needs to be instituted to ensure that adequate data is collected at the outset of the
   project so as to be able to measure actual impact at the end of the project.

f) Given the wide range of activities that are taken up under livelihood support projects, it
   is not desirable for only one organization to be designated as the lead provider of
   training inputs. Similar projects in future should empanel a number of training agencies
   for different technical areas including project management, environmental issues and
   the dynamics of different livelihood sub-sectors.

g) The partnerships with NGOs for mobilizing the community have not been effective.
   Although this has also been due to poor contract design and an adversarial approach
   taken by Project Management in some instances, the capacity of the civil society sector
   in Rajasthan to solely undertake community mobilization efforts across the state is not
   strong. New projects in rural livelihoods should seek to develop a trained cadre of
   community resource persons who are employed directly by the project and the
   community themselves to ensure greater accountability.

h) The experience with Community Facilitators (CFs) in this project suggests that, in the
   subsequent round of the project, they need to be supported by a Project Facilitation
   Team (PFT) that consists of domain experts in particular economic activities. PFTs can
   guide the CF in successful implementation of economic activities and undertake
   second-stage federating and market-linkage activities at the cluster, district and state
   levels.

i) A key learning of this project relates to the nature of the relationship between project
   management and implementing partners. Contracts with implementing partners focused
   on outcome indicators as measures of success and criteria for payment. This led to
   implementing partners being seen as task-based contractors for the project rather than
   project partners responsible for community mobilization and hand-holding. It also
   reduced the accountability of the DPIP project staff vis-à-vis other implementing
   partners. Therefore, it is essential to draw-up partnership agreements that lay out the
   roles and responsibilities of both DPIP staff and implementing partners and seeks to
   focus on concrete criteria relating to the quality of inputs provided rather than focusing
   only on projected outcomes.

j) There needs to be more focus on involvement of PRIs in wealth ranking, identification
   of beneficiaries, and organizing and reviewing social audits in a systematic manner.
   Greater collaboration with PRIs can help promote integration with other government
   programs being implemented through PRIs and also serve to increase accountability of
   DPIP project staff and implementing partners.




                                           19

    k) As a design feature, the community mobilization component should focus on forming
        groups into SHGs and link them to banks. Economic activity with the groups should be
        initiated only after two years of successful group functioning to help ensure quality of
        group interactions and increased sustainability post-project period.

    l)  Lack of linkages between the MIS which captured the physical progress of sub
        projects; and the financial records was an important internal control weakness in the
        project. Though the project attempted to establish these linkages manually, ensuring
        accountability became an extremely difficult task for the client as well as Bank. It
        would have been useful to establish this linkage from the very beginning of the project
        and perform the physical and financial reconciliations on regular basis. Also,
        performing this important task manually for a large project like DPIP could entail risk.
        This must be looked in to for any future DPIP project during project preparation where
        a comprehensive computerized system tracking the physical progress of works and
        actual expenditure charged to accounts should be developed and that should the basis
        for reporting figures in the Financial Management Reports (FMR).

    m) The project was one of the first to prepare a Governance and Accountability Action
        Plan which built on the Right To Information Act, developed a robust complaints
        handling system and used local journalists to scan the local vernacular newspapers on
        issues or stories related to the project as an independent check. These innovative
        oversight mechanisms could be replicated in similar CDD projects in India and
        elsewhere.

    n) The continuous availability of professionals on key financial positions should be agreed
        during project negotiations and it should be a legal covenant in the project agreement.

    o) It is important that the government will need to ensure staff with a procurement
        background are hired and are responsible for contract administration. In addition there
        should be scope for arbitration on NGO contracts with a third-party group, which could
        also help verify the background and short-list potential NGO partners for the program.

    p) Finally the need to focus on completing sub-projects on time and ensuring utilization
        certificates are issued in a timely manner. The project left these to the end, and this
        resulted in a major campaign to ensure the utilization certificates were issued towards
        the last six months to ensure reimbursement from the Bank. The MIS system should
        have been used to track this more effectively. All new livelihood projects are building
        robust MIS systems linked to financial management software to track such mile-stones.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Attached below are the comments from the borrower. The Government of Rajasthan expresses
its disagreement on the Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for the project implementation and
environmental safeguards. The rating represents the view of majority of the stakeholders
including NGOs. Therefore, the rating remains Moderately Satisfactory.

With reference to the referred letter and cited subject the comments on draft ICR are as
following:

A. Para 2.2 Implementation (Page. draft report)


                                               20

    Sub Para- State and District Project Management
    Rating- Moderately Unsatisfactory
    Comments - The Government does not agree with the rating under this category because:

    (i)      The Project has largely achieved the objectives as per PDO. Although the project
             implementation was unsatisfactory for some periods during the life of project but at
             the same time, due to continuously good implementation since last two years
             resulted into satisfactory closing of this project.

    (ii)     Secondly the adjustment of Completion Certificates and Utilization Certificates is
             around 99%.
    (iii)    As per the Result Framework Sub Part (b) of component Capacity Building of the
             CIGs, the target was " At least 33 % CIG's with approved subprojects are active
             and sustained beyond project period " (Qualify Category "A" or "B" as per Q&S
             parameters)

    Under the project total 19307 sub project were sanctioned and the breakup is as following:

    1. Total Sub Project sanctioned                 -       19307
             (a) Through NGO's                      -       16416
             (b) Through GP                         -         2091

    2. Out of 16416 CIGs, income generating activities were sanctioned to 12620 CIGs.

    3. Out of 12620 CIGs 5669 CIGs were qualified for as grade 'A' or 'B' under Q&S
         agreement. Out of this 2467 as grade 'A' and 3202 as grade 'B' were rated. As per
         Result Framework at least 33% of 12620 i.e. 4207 CIGs must be qualified A or B as
         per Q&S parameter against this total 5699 CIG's are qualified which is 45.16% against
         minimum 33%.

B.       Sub Para- Heading " Environmental Compliance" Under Para 24 Rating- Moderately
         unsatisfactory :-

         The steps taken for environmental safeguard were clearly described in the Para V of
borrowers comments.

         In every DPMU since starting Manager (Project Appraisal) scrutinized the Project
taking into account the environmental aspect also. As such there is no exclusively designated
post for Environmental Safeguard even in the original Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and
Project Implementation Plan(PIP).

         The project appointed Civil Engineering Department of MNIT as Environmental
Consultant for the project period. MNIT issued and modified guidelines as per the need of the
project and District Project Implementation Units followed these guidelines accordingly. The
MNIT also reviewed and gave opinion on various subprojects           to safeguard environment.
Apart from this Project suo motto sanctioned many subproject considering environmental
safeguard.

C.       In the draft ICR it has been mentioned that ­ "Open ended contracts, with unclear
outputs, led to conflicts between project management staff and implementing agencies and


                                                 21

partner NGOs at both the SPMU and DPMU level. Unclear payment terms in the contract also
resulted in arbitrary decision-making on approval of payments, with several implementing
partners claiming outstanding dues at the end of the project period". The project would like to
draw attention that World Bank had approved the drafts of agreements with NGOs and Service
providers.

        The project has been evaluated by the two independent agencies- Evaluation
Organization, Department of Planning, Government of Rajasthan and Institution of
Development Studies (IDS) and from these reports it can be concluded that DPIP project has
made positive impact on economic and social status of the beneficiaries. This implies that the
project has been implemented satisfactorily.

        In view of the above, it is submitted to kindly reconsider the grading awarded to State
and District Project Implementation and Environmental safeguard including overall rating of
the project.

(b) Cofinanciers N.A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(NGOs/private sector/civil society) see Annex 8




                                               22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                        Appraisal          Actual/Latest
          Components                  Estimate (USD       Estimate (USD       Percentage of

                                         millions)           millions)          Appraisal

CAPACITY BUILDING OF
AND FOR THE POOR                             15.5                11.74            74%

COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
FUNDS                                        99.84             108.11            108%

STATE AND DISTRICT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                            6.14                 4.49           73%


            Total Baseline Cost             121.48              124.34

Physical Contingencies                        0.20                 0.00

Price Contingencies                           3.11                 0.00
             Total Project Costs            124.79              124.34
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                 0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                 0.00
    Total Financing Required                124.79              124.34



Funds for capacity building and project management were under-utilized due to the problems in
recruiting and retaining staff and service providers. Funds under the Community Investment
Fund were over-spent due to the formation of more CIGs than initially targeted.

(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Lates

          Source of Funds                Type of Co     Estimate      t Estimate Percentage
                                         financing        (USD          (USD     of Appraisal
                                                        millions)     millions)
Borrower                                              17.74         9.36        52%
International Development
Association (IDA)                                     100.48        105.48      105%

LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                                  6.57          9.5         144%




                                                23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Measuring Achievement Using the Results Framework:
Component 1: Capacity Building of the Poor
Output 1: The poor are organized and empowered

a. Target: At least 100,000 poor families (175,000 individuals) in the project districts are
   organized into CIGs and funded.
   Actual Achievement: 247,868 individuals organized into CIGs and 197,586 of these were
   funded through EOP.

b. Target: At least 33% of CIGs with approved subprojects are active and sustained beyond
   project period.
   Actual Achievement: Only 31% of CIGS with approved sub-projects were rated as
   sustainable using the agreed upon quality and sustainability parameters.          Of the total
   number of CIGs for which economic activities were funded, 13% achieved an "A" rating
   signifying good quality, while the rest 18% achieved a "B" rating signifying moderate
   quality.

c. Target: At least 3,500 CIGs are members of Cluster Associations which are functioning as
   business enterprises, including at least 10 non-dairy CAs.
   Actual Achievement: Some 2,910 CIGs were members of CAs of which 2,556 CIGs were
   dairy CIGs that became sustainable through the linkage to RCDF and Srijan Maitree Dairy
   Federation. Out of a total of 16 functioning CA, 7 were non-dairy associations in areas
   including: goat rearing, ready-made garments, agriculture, and seed production.

Output 2: Livelihood skills of the poor developed

a. Target: At least 50% of the CIGs formed have received basic management orientation.
   Actual Achievement: At EOP 56% of all CIGs formed had received basic orientation
   training as part of the project. However, there is no reliable data available to assess the
   quality of training provided and anecdotal evidence from stakeholder workshops suggests
   that training inputs were mixed, especially with regard to non-farm livelihoods.

b. Target: At least 25% of the CIGs who have been approved sub-projects of
   microenterprises have acquired livelihood skills and used them in a sustained manner.
   Actual Achievement: Other than dairy CIGs linked to RCDF, there is no data available to
   assess whether this sustainability target has been met. Anecdotal evidence from the field
   suggests that animal husbandry CIGs, especially dairying, is likely to be the most
   sustainable post-project period.

c. Target: At least 2,500 CIGs have received services on a continued basis from the
   paraprofessionals trained as part of the project.
   Actual Achievement: 350 para-accountants, 40 para-vets and 938 first aid workers were
   trained as part of the project. However, there is no evidence that the services of any of these
   paraprofessionals are being utilized by CIGs.




                                               24

Output 3: Strengthened ability of district line departments, NGOs and private technical
agencies to respond to community-demand driven proposals to target efforts and deliver better
quality services to the poor in a timely manner.

a. Target: At 75% of CIF proposals approved against submission as per delivery standards at
    any given time.
    Actual Achievement: As against a delivery standard of 21days between receipt of CIF
    proposals and approval, the actual approval time reported by the project management staff
    stood at 40 days. Other stakeholders reported even longer delays in approval of projects.

b. Target: 30% of CIF proposals are implemented as per delivery standards at any given time.
    Actual Achievement: As against a delivery standard of 6 months, the implementation
    project staff reported an average implementation time of 3.52 months. Again, other
    stakeholders reported longer delays in implementation of projects.

Overall, due to frequent project staff changes and lack of proper coordination between project
staff and implementing NGOs, the spirit of this output was definitely not achieved There is no
evidence of any strengthened ability of district line departments and private technical agencies
to respond to community-driven proposals.

Output 4: PRIs involved in the process of DPIP at the village level.

a. Target: Approximately 75% of Completion Certificates approved against submission by
    the GPs as per given standards at any given time.
    Actual Achievement: 100% CCs approved by GPs.

b. Target: GPs play facilitating role in CIG activity
    Actual Achievement: Social audits were conducted in approximately 50% of project
    villages to verify project expenditures. However, other than the involvement in verification
    of project expenditures, there is no evidence of significant GP involvement in the
    community mobilization and economic activity choice phases of the project

Overall, the GPs played an important role in verification of project expenditures and on
implementation of drought relief programs as part of DPIP.

Component 2: Community Investment Fund

Output 1: Increased Livelihood Opportunities in a Sustained Manner

a. Target: INR. 4,880 Million disbursed and INR 320 Million community contribution
    mobilized
    Actual Achievement: The project achieved its disbursement targets by the end of the
    project period with US $ 105.5 M (94%) disbursed and approximately US $ 9.5 Million
    (144%) in community contributions raised. However, 50 % of the funds were disbursed in
    the last two years of the project, which lowered the quality of interventions and weakened
    the other development objectives of the project. Overall rating is satisfactory.

b. Target: At least 33% of CIGs and 25% of cluster associations are engaged in economic
    activity in a sustained manner by the end of the project.



                                               25

   Actual Achievement: Other than 8 clusters of dairy groups linked to RCDF, there is no
   evidence that the remaining cluster associations formed will survive post-project period
   since they were formed in the last year of the project and will require further hand-holding.

Output 2: Improved access of the poor to economic and social infrastructure and services

a. Target: 60% of target households reporting increased use of services
   Actual Achievement: The impact assessment reports increased usage of services by target
   households. Due to lacunae in the baseline survey, it is not possible to arrive at an exact
   percentage of households that have increase usage of government services at the village
   level.

Component 3: State and District Project Management

Output 1: The project is well managed and coordinated at the state, district and cluster levels.

a. Target: Effective fund flow from the project to beneficiary groups and service providers
   as per delivery standards.
   Actual Achievement: As outlined above, fund flows to beneficiary groups was satisfactory
  by the end of the project period. However, fund flows to other stakeholders including apex
  support institutions and partner NGOs have been plagued by various problems due to lack
  of adequate cooperation and coordination between different stakeholders as well as poor
  design of contracts.

b. Target: 100% of project staff (GO and NGO) are trained on project processes and skills at
  any given time.
  Actual Achievement: Although staff were trained at the inception of the project, frequent
  turnover of both Project staff and staff of NGOs and lack of capacity of the lead training
  agency meant that there were lacunae in staff training, especially towards the end of the
  project.

c. Target: Staff Appraisal and service provider performance appraisal system in place
   Actual Achievement: No actual formal appraisal of staff or service providers has taken
   place as part of the project.

d. Target: 8-10 related line departments and external service providers are involved in the
   project through MOU and Government orders
   Actual Achievement: Project staff coordinated with other departments to mobilize funds
   from other government schemes to benefit target households. Apex service providers such
   as the Rajasthan non-farm Development Agency (RUDA), Indira Gandhi Panchiyati and
   Gramin Vikas Sansthan (IGPRS), Malaviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT),
   Rajasthan Cooperative Dairy Federation (RCDF) and National Bank for Agricultural
   Development Consultancy Services (NABCONS) were formally brought in to support the
   project.

e. Target: Effective project performance tracking and process monitoring and feedback
   system put in place




                                              26

  Actual Achievement: A computerized MIS system was put into place in fourth year of the
  project. A process monitoring system was also established with the Institute of
  Development Studies, Jaipur appointed as the lead agency to conduct process monitoring.

f. Target: Institutional Mechanism established for periodic review of policies strategies and
  operational issues involving key stakeholders at district and state levels.
  Actual achievement:        A Governing Council headed by the Minister for Rural
  Development was put in place to review policies, strategies and operational issues related
  to the project. However, effective arbitration strategies and systems to deal with
  stakeholder complaints were not put in place at the district and state levels.




                                            27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

To generate the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of sub-projects, sector specific reviews were conducted.
Most of the sub-project financed by the project was broadly categorized into non-farm, animal
husbandry and natural resource management related livelihood activities

Non-farm livelihood CIGs constituted 27% of the total CIGs initiated under the project and covered
approximately 50,000 households. Non-farm livelihood activities, though highly variable, seem to have
had significant impact on the incomes and living standards of member households at the CIG level itself.
A majority of the CIGs visited were generating positive cash flows and had a median rate of return of
approximately 126% when their earnings were extrapolated over a five year period.

Animal husbandry CIGs comprised the largest component of the DPIP project, accounting for 49%
(8,555) of all the CIG groups created and covering approximately 90,000 households. The two largest
activities within this were goat-rearing and dairying, which together accounted for 95% of all animal
husbandry activities. Functioning CIGs around dairying and goat-rearing seem to have had significant
impact on the incomes and living standards of member households at the CIG level itself. The returns
on dairying activities ranged from 25-36% and the returns on goat-rearing activities ranged from 8-9%
when their earnings were extrapolated over a five-year period.

                                  Table 1: IRR for Select Sub-project across categories
                  Category                       Sub-project types                 Number of Sub-projects                        IRRs
     n-farm                                 ndloom Weaving                                                                  18% - 152%
                                            m Cutting                                                                      107% - 118%
                                            rpet Weaving                                         4795                            129%
                                            rment Stitching                                                                      222%
                                            adi Weaving                                                                          153%
     imal Husbandry                         at Rearing                                                                         8% - 9%
                                            iry                                                  8555                        25% -36%
     tural Resource Managementrestry                                                                                       9.50 - 26.50%
                                            agwan Kund                                                                          9.50%
                                            nd Construction                                      8555                     3.60% - 13.97%
                                            nd leveling                                                                          299%
                                            chard Development                                                                    32%
Source: DPIP Rajasthan Evaluation Report: Non-farm Livelihoods, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resource Management, Adarsh Kumar, Consultant, The World
Bank, December, 2007.

Natural Resource Management (NRM) CIGs comprised 14% of activities initiated under DPIP,
accounting for 2,256 CIGs covering approximately 25,000 households. Agricultural development
activities accounted for 37% of all NRM activities initiated. Horticulture, land-levelling and vermi-
composting were the other significant activities accounting for 24%, 15% and 8% of all NRM activities
respectively. The range of IRRs seems extremely varied with the minimum observed being 3% return
on investments and the maximum being 299% return on investments. Land levelling activities had
extremely large IRRs due to the fact that no cultivation was taking place on uneven land prior to the
project intervention. In forestry and orchard activities, it was observed that such activities have a long
gestation period, up to ten years to reach full-productivity, and that the project period was not sufficient
to ensure sustainability of the activity.

Livelihood activities in certain non-farm and animal husbandry seems to have had a tremendous impact
on quality of life parameters relating to women, as all the women members of functioning CIG groups
felt that the biggest impact were not the income increases, but the ability to switch away from manual
agricultural contract labor in other fields and the increased time that they were able to spend within
their homesteads.


                                                                         28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members

Names                   Title                                Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR

Yamini Aiyar            Consultant                         ETWSA  PRI and Local
                                                                  Institutions
Sushil Kumar Bahl       Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS Procurement

Madhavan Balachandran   Financial Management Specialist    SDNCA  Financial
                                                                  Management
Bhuvan Bhatnagar        Sr Social Scientist                 EASSO Accountability

Samik Sundar Das        Senior Rural Development Specialist SASDA Co-Task Team
                                                                  Leader
Puja Vasudeva Dutta     Social Protection Economist        SASHD Social Protection
Deepal Fernando         Sr Procurement Specialist           SARPS Procurement

Vinayak Narayan Ghatate Consultant                          SASDA Non-Farm
                                                                  Livelihoods
Asmeen M. Khan          Senior Rural Development Specialist SASDA Task Team Leader
Priti Kumar             Sr Environmental Specialist         SASDN Environment
Adarsh Kumar            Consultant                         SASDA ICR Team Leader
Assaye Legesse          Senior Agriculture Economist       AFTAR Economist

Manvinder Mamak         Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM  Financial
                                                                  Management

Arun Manuja             Financial Management Specialist    SARFM  Financial
                                                                  Management
Ajai Nair               Consultant                          SASDA Micro-Finance
Krishna Pidatala        Senior Information Officer          AFTRL Monitoring

Parmesh Shah            Lead Rural Development Specialist   SASDA Livelihoods Team
                                                                  Leader
Sandra Ursula Sousa     Team Assistant                      SASDO Team Support




                                        29

(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY94                                                            0.51
  FY95                                                          108.18
  FY96                                                          263.95
  FY97                                                          115.78
  FY98                                                           84.61
  FY99                                                           88.80
  FY00                                  57                      103.93
  FY01                                                           -4.24
  FY02                                                           -0.10
  FY03                                                            0.00
  FY04                                                            0.00
  FY05                                                            0.00
  FY06                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                            0.00
                        Total:          57                      761.42
Supervision/ICR
  FY94                                                            0.00
  FY95                                                            0.19
  FY96                                                            0.00
  FY97                                                            0.00
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.44
  FY00                                                            1.21
  FY01                                  32                       40.09
  FY02                                  25                       47.11
  FY03                                  22                       86.26
  FY04                                  26                      122.46
  FY05                                  24                      139.17
  FY06                                  39                      188.21
  FY07                                  23                      118.81
  FY08                                   8                       41.03
                        Total:        199                       784.98




                                    30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

To assess the overall impact of the DPIP, panel household data was used for 2001 and 2007.
The unit of analysis was households for whom there is data at two periods of time, over the
period of the project. Both the baseline and the end-term survey contain household data on
annual income, annual expenses, caste, poverty, land holding, and other relevant variables.
Basic data was collected for each individual household member. And included information on:
educational attainment, literacy, immunization, age, among others.

The 2007 end-term survey sampled 5,600 households distributed in 74 baseline villages and 66
non-baseline villages (control). As in the baseline, in each village, 40 households were selected-
25 Below Poverty Line (BPL) and 15 Above Poverty Line (APL).
                                           Table 1.1

                                          End-Term survey
                                        Baseline        Non-       TOTAL
                                        Villages      baseline
                                                       villages
                       Baran                   13              7         20
                       Tonk                      8            12         20
                       Jhalawar                  9            11         20
                       Dausa                   12              8         20
                       Rajsamand               11              9         20
                       Churu                   10             10         20
                       Dholpur                 13              7         20
                       TOTAL                   76             64        140

For the purpose of the impact evaluation assessment, the focus was on baseline households who
were surveyed before and after the Program. It is important to highlight that within treatment
and control villages, there are treated and untreated households, respectively. In this sense, the
panel data is composed of 5,942 households, from which 4,502 are untreated households (did
not receive DPIP) and 1,440 are treated households (received an asset from DPIP).
                                           Table 1.2

                                  Total    After/Before    Control    Treatment
                  Churu              796            398         564         232
                  Dholpur          1,034            517         776         258
                  Dausa              966            483         716         250
                  Tonk               710            355         488         222
                  Rajsamand          886            443         754         132
                  Baran              868            434         706         162
                  Jhalawar           682            341         498         184
                  Total            5,942          2,971       4,502        1,440

Summary statistics for this sample are presented in Table 1.6. There are 2,892 households with
an annual average real income of Rs. 29,851 after the DPIP intervention and Rs. 20,663 before




                                                31

the treatment. The annual real income, attributed to the DPIP project, over time in Rs.
2,997 as seen in Table 1.3.1 However, there are several caveats to the analysis. Other factors,
such as, economic growth, labor markets and immigration waves could be confounding the
effect of DPIP on annual income. On average, DPIP households have increased their income
level by Rs.11,455 after the implementation of the Program, whereas non-DPIP households
have improved it by Rs. 8,458 After DPIP was implemented, the difference in annual income
between DPIP and non-DPIP households is -9,138.26. Nevertheless, this difference cannot be
interpreted as the effect of the program since other factors such as initial economic conditions,
education level, and caste may confound the difference in annual income between DPIP and
non-DPIP households.

                                               Table 1.3
                                     Average Annual Income
                                     (At constant prices 1994)

                                                        Non-
                                         DPIP           DPIP            Diff
                          Before       11,471.56 23,607.09            -12,135.53
                           After       22,927.51 32,065.77             -9,138.26
                            Diff      -11,455.95      -8,458.68        -2,997.27

To deal with problems of attribution change over time has to be assessed for income from non-
DPIP households as well as the change over time in income for DPIP households. Regarding
household expenses, there are 2,892 households with average annual expenses of Rs. 18,331
after the program and Rs. 4,594 before the program. This variable is used to control for
significant differences between treatment and control households, who have accordingly
increased their level of annual expenses by Rs. 12,982. and Rs. 13,977 after the treatment. At
this point, it is relevant to note that the enormous time-difference in annual expenses may come
from the drought that affected baseline households when surveyed. At the individual level,
there are approximately 15,890 individuals in the sample with low levels of education and
employment. In 2007, 83% of households were underemployed and only 32% completed
primary school (from 1st to 5th class).

                                                Table 1.4
                                                       Before     After
                               Primary School              0.25        0.32
                               Secondary School            0.16        0.23
                               Graduate level              0.06        0.06
                               Reading and
                               writing                     0.67        0.50




1 Given that we have repeated data for the same individuals, we differentiated the general specification of
Diff-in-Diff with respect to time. The Diff-in-Diff estimates suggest that DPIP has a positive and
significant effect on annual household income. The key assumption is that the change over time in non-
DPIP households represents the change we would have observed in DPIP households, had DPIP
households not participated in the program




                                                    32

                              Illness                    0.02   -
                              Vaccination                0.02   -
                              Unemployment                           0.83
                              Migration                              0.06

If both the treatment and control group are randomly selected, there should not be any
systematic differences between these two groups in their prior or baseline characteristics,
especially in those variables which are highly correlated with income or outcome variables.
However, the selection of villages was not random, and the selection of beneficiaries was also
closely associated with the level of household income and poverty condition. Hence, those who
were not DPIP beneficiaries are systematically different from those who did.

Before implementing DPIP, testing the differences between the treatment and control groups in
their baseline characteristics, there are statistically significant differences between both groups
in income, expenses and land holding at 5% significance level.

Also, after implementing DPIP, both groups continued being different in their main household
conditions. In general, both treatment and control groups report systematic differences in their
baseline and end-term characteristics.

                                              Table 1.5
                                             Before DPIP

                                                  Mean          Mean             Difference
                                                  Control       Treatment        T-stat */

            Annual Real Income                      23607.09         11471.56     15.93978

            Annual Real Causal Income               12062.28         12382.14     -0.66943

            Annual Real household expending         5104.892         3000.323     10.27775

            Poverty                                 0.676182         0.153203     31.32992

            Access to Credit                        0.288136         0.307799     -0.99741

            Total land size (in Bighas)             10.89195         3.857276     15.78617

            Irrigated area                           4.19807         1.132817     12.29918
                                              After DPIP

                                                  Mean          Mean             Difference
                                                  Control       Treatment        T-stat */
            Annual Real Income                      32065.77         22927.51     11.13452
            Annual Real Causal Income               1248.094         2801.875     -5.10753
            Annual Real household expending         19082.68         15982.52     7.107367
            Poverty                                 1.509551         1.977778     -39.3912
            Access to Credit                        0.220347           0.2375     -0.94682
            Total land size (in Bighas)             8.921035         3.701389     12.29671
            Irrigated area                          8.330109         3.881731      8.54372
                */ Test of equally of means between control and treatment group. Income and expenses
                  at constant prices 1994




                                                  33

                                                         Table 1.6


         Variables           ALL       DPIP      Non-                                Before               After

                                                 DPIP      After     Before                Non-                Non-
                                                                               DPIP       DPIP      DPIP       DPIP
Annual Income               25,265.81 17,207.50 27,844.90 29,851.18 20,663.40 11,471.56 23,607.09 22,927.51 32,065.77
Annual Casual Income         5,624.44 7,080.23  5,081.28  1,624.64 12,164.56 12,382.14 12,062.28   2,801.88   1,248.09
Annual Expenses             11,477.77 9,500.45 12,110.91 18,331.38  4,594.05  3,000.32    5,104.89 15,982.52 19,082.68
Access to Credit                0.26      0.27      0.25      0.22      0.29      0.31       0.29      0.24      0.22
Total land size (in Bighas)     8.40      3.78      9.87      7.66      9.22      3.86       10.89     3.70      8.92
Irrigated area                  4.73      1.92      5.55      7.42      3.47      1.13       4.20      3.88      8.33
Above the poverty line          0.46      0.09      0.58      0.38      0.55      0.15       0.68      0.02      0.49
Women head of the
household                       0.08      0.09      0.07      0.10      0.06      0.07       0.06      0.11      0.09
% ST/SC                         0.46      0.55      0.43      0.46      0.45      0.57       0.41      0.53      0.44
Age                             45.27    42.23     46.25     47.65     42.89     39.53       43.97    44.93      48.52




                                                            34

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Three different sets of stakeholder workshops were held with: (a) project beneficiaries at the
village level; (b) implementing agencies and project partners; and (c) project management staff.
The workshops sought to include the widest possible range of stakeholders who were involved
with the project and discuss objectives of the DPIP project, implementation issues and review of
performance with a view to improving upon the design of the next phase of the DPIP project. A
summary of issues raised in the stakeholder workshops is give below:

a. Workshops with Project Beneficiaries at the Village Level

Stakeholder workshops with project beneficiaries at the village level were held in Dausa district.
The following were the main results of the workshop:

    · All project beneficiaries present were happy with the process of purchasing assets and
        reported that the assets were generating income.
        "Unlike other [government] programs, through the DPIP program we were able to buy
        two buffaloes, without harassment from any officials" ­ Laccho, Village Kanwaria

    · Women highlighted a shift away from manual contract labor as a major benefit of the
        DPIP project. Various beneficiaries reported that "assets purchased through DPIP have
        allowed us to stop working as manual labor [in agriculture and construction] and switch
        to home-based livelihoods activities".

    · All beneficiaries reported an increase in income from purchase of assets.

    · Beneficiaries requested continuation of the DPIP program so as to be able to purchase
        greater amount of assets. They felt that the subsidy component of the DPIP program was
        critical in enabling them to purchase the asset and that they would not have been able to
        do so otherwise.

b. Workshops with Implementing Agencies and Project Partners

Workshop # 1 ­ With IDS staff on Impact Evaluation Studies
Bank staff held a workshop with staff of IDS both on impact evaluation methodology and on
issues coming out of the qualitative focus groups. The following were the main issues raised:

· Baseline survey was poorly defined and developed. Each member of the household was
    polled individually rather than only the head of household which made data consolidation and
    time-series comparison difficult.

· Initial data comparison based on impact evaluation survey shows increase in consumption
    expenditure and assets amongst project beneficiaries relative to the control group. "The
    Credit goes to linkages that have been created".

· The impact evaluation study shows significant leasing of land for farming by poor households
    but it is not possible to attribute this only to the DPIP project.




                                                    35

· The relationship between NGO, DPMU (SPMU) and beneficiaries needs to be explored. In
  focus groups held by IDS, beneficiaries complained of poor performance by NGOs, who in
  turn claim that frequent disagreements and interference from DPMU staff led to the poor
  performance.

Workshop # 2 ­ With RCDF staff on implementation of dairying linkages

· RCDF staff reported that since they were not involved at the project design phase, various
  project components were poorly designed. RCDF requested greater design input in the
  follow-on project.

· RCDF felt that $375 allocated for organizing a group, totaling approximately $50,000, was a
  very small amount and not adequate to cover the actual cost of organizing dairy CIGs and
  providing them handholding support. RCDF estimates it has spent approximately $375,000 of
  its own money over and above the project money.

· Interaction between DPMU staff and RCDF was strained. RCDF staff felt that they were
  treated poorly by DPMU staff. "RCDF needs to be given more operational autonomy. The
  need for approval at each stage was a problem that held up project implementation". RCDF
  staff felt that there is the need to develop an institutional relationship that reduces
  discretionary power by DPMU staff.

· Implementation was hampered by cumbersome project regulations and DPMU functioning.
  This affected the economic viability of projects. DPIP approval for each stage of activity:
  fund release, asset purchase, UC, CC makes the process too long. For example, induction of
  cattle is a seasonal activity and as DPMUS took too long to sanction the activity one entire
  season was lost.

· Project should consider partial investment in milk infrastructure and RCDF will do the rest.
  "Especially in Phase II, when the grant component is much less and the loan component for
  the beneficiary is higher, it is not fair to have the beneficiaries buy buffaloes when the local
  infrastructure is not in place to initiate procurement of surplus milk."

· Routes are not economically viable for the first few years and need to be subsidized for a few
  years till they are profitable.

· Total number of CIGS added by RCDF is 3,500. The DPIP project, through RDCF has added
  39,000 cattle.

· Arbitrary changes in payment conditions reflect poor initial contract, the last payment of 15%
  remains unpaid as government has suddenly interpreted "satisfactory running of project for 6
  months" to mean six months after submission of completion certificate, not six months after
  the introduction of the activity.

· No funds were provided for monitoring and planning to RCDF as part of the project.




                                                 36

Workshop # 3 - With staff of MNIT: Environmental Review Service Providers

Lack of clarity in contracts with service providers leading to disputes and arbitrary decision-
making by the SPMU on payments. Service providers operating on "verbal assurances".
· No information received by MNIT on cluster formation project, poor information sharing
   between SPMU/DPMU and project partners.

· Diffusion of responsibility at SPMU and frequent changes in personnel in both the bank team
   and SPMU. MNIT would assign tasks on environmental follow-up to NGOs and DPMU staff
   which would not be done. "SPMU should exert pressure on DPMU, not expect service
   providers to do so." Most of the posts on environmental liaison at DPMU were unfilled, and
   another staff member was assigned the additional responsibility. Local trainings at district
   level were often poorly attended and required follow-up by MNIT staff to get participants to
   training venue.

· Initially, people were not using the environmental checklists at CF level as they felt that
   additional points ("if they scored too high") on the checklist would mean that the project was
   not assigned to them. "Checklists were being xeroxed for projects of the same type". Revised
   checklist was made in 2004 and introduced in 2005.

· NGOs also did not appoint environmental coordinators as was envisioned at the project
   design phase. They arbitrarily designated a staff member as the environmental liaison.

· Minimum thresholds for environmental review were set in place, and environmental reviews
   automatically triggered if these thresholds were crossed.

· The environmental review process set up under the Rajasthan DPIP project had a spill over to
   other projects. MNIT provided environmental trainings to Madhya Pradesh DPIP based on
   experience in Rajasthan.

Workshop # 3 - NGO Consultation

Bank staff held a workshop with NGO representatives from the 7 project districts representing
both small local and regional NGOs. The following were the main issues raised:

· Though a government program, DPIP was not treated at par with other government programs
   and not integrated with implementation and monitoring set-up at the district level.

· That Bank linkage as an objective of group formation was not clear at the start of the project;
   unclear objectives were given to NGOs leading to different results. In Jaipur, as the local
   implementing NGO IFFDC had experience in SHG formation and bank linkage, 100% of the
   groups were linked to banks. This was not the case in other project districts.

· DPMUs were not proactive in facilitating bank linkages, they need to be made responsible for
   meeting targets as well to ensure more bank linkages in the next phase of the project.

· Frequent changes in DPMU staff. They did not have the aptitude or conceptual understanding
   of the project and were not convinced of the benefits of the program. Training and
   sensitization of SPMU and DPMU staff is critical.




                                               37

· Community facilitators were not in place when apex NGO service providers were brought in
   to work in the field.

· Role of PRIs in the project was not clear. Having to approach PRIs only for approving
   completion certificates led to harassment by elected officials.

· Different organizations for group formation, training and market linkages resulted in
   diffusion of responsibility and no ownership in results except in the case of RCDF. In many
   cases, training was sanctioned but machinery not purchased due to lack of community
   contribution.

· Modality was also an issue. Excessively bureaucratic structure of project being sanctioned by
   DPMU, money given to CIGs, then to implementing NGOs led to long delays in project
   implementation.

· Frequent changes in the project staff was a huge problem. For example, there were 7 DPMs
   in Dausa in a 3 year period. Each change brought about a new subjective interpretation of
   rules, making it difficult for project partners to function in an optimal manner.

C. Workshop with Project Management Staff

   · Past performance of NGOs in bank linkage was not taken into account before selecting
       them.

   · Frequent changes in project rules resulted in a lack of clarity in project implementation
       and inability to take decisions. In some cases, rules were even changed retroactively.
       There should be a cut-off period or advance notice before changing regulations.
   · Project staff felt that coordinating with implementing NGOs was difficult due to high
       staff turnover. They felt that staff training and sensitization programs for NGOs are also
       important.

   · Project staff felt that DPIP had a very elaborate design, but it was not understood by the
       grassroots-level front line worker. There is the need to expand capacity building of staff
       or drastically simplify project or both.




                                                 38

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

ICR (Borrower's) Report by Rajasthan DPIP

The project interventions individually attained their specific outcomes and thus, helped in the
overall achievement of the PDO. The impact assessment studies (IDS Mid-term studies, May '04
and Dec. 08 IRR study) clearly indicate that the PDO is fully achieved. In about 7 years, the
livelihoods of the poor in the 7 districts had undergone a transition in terms of employment, asset
base, income, household consumption expenditure and investment behavior.

Project management, Monitoring and Learning: The project has successfully managed 7
District Units, 63 NGOs under 100 agreements in addition to extending a helping hand 23065
Common Interest Groups and 247868 CIG members. A comprehensive Monitoring and
Evaluation system is established in the form of (a) Input and Output Monitoring System, (b)
Process Monitoring and (c) Impact Evaluation and Review Systems.

A well established computerized MIS system was introduced in the Project Districts wherein
information on various indicators of the project was collected from the districts. The project has
also developed the website for online monitoring. The weekly progress report, Various Circulars,
Project Guidelines and survey reports are available on website. The project has also developed on
line complaints registration related to Insurance/Bank linkage grievances.

Environmental Aspects: The project hired the consultancy of Malviya National Institute of
Technology to advice on environmental aspect. Initially MNIT released the checklist consisting
of environmental checks to be submitted with subproject by NGOs and Manager Project
Appraisal had to consider this before sanction of subproject. After getting the feedback from
NGOs, MNIT has revised this checklist and all DPMUs are using this. MNIT has also appraised
some more than 200 subproject those have environmental impact. MNIT has also done
documentation on the Lesson Learnt in the Project and the project has circulated this to all
DPMUs for adoption of good practices.

Factors Facilitating the Implementation of Rajasthan DPIP

Continued Support of GoR to the Project: The GoR created the separate implementation
structure i.e. State Project Management Unit at Jaipur headed by IAS officer of the rank of
Special / Deputy Secretary and at District level by District Project Management Unit headed by
District Project Manager for the effective implementation of the project. This set up was under
the administrative control of Department of Rural Development and Panchayti Raj. Being a part
of the Department of Rural Development and Panchayti Raj, has facilitated the convergence of
various schemes of rural development with the Project.

The GoR is alive to its responsibility to reduce poverty, and rightly concerned about the
intractability of poverty and also willing to adopt innovative ways to address it. The GoR
appreciates the value of Demand Driven Approach in political sense in which the aspirations of
the poor are well met because they (poor) themselves identify the activities and workout
investments required and take responsibility in their implementation.

In addition, the decision to introduce decentralized planning, management and funds flow directly
into the account of CIGs, loan for beneficiary contribution were important policy initiatives of the




                                                 39

government. In addition, the GoR's support to the top management of the project facilitated the
smooth implementation of the project.

Support from Line Departments: The line departments have played the effective role in the
implementation of project by providing technical support. The project constituted the Resource
Teams at district level consisting of officers from Line Departments to provide technical inputs
like District Agriculture Resource Team for agriculture, District Livestock Resource Team etc.
PRIs have also supported both in the implementation and providing technical support.

Assets availability with CIGs: During the 'Village Contact Drive' held in the month of January,
2007, Social Audit of 100% assets of the CIG's was conducted in Gram Sabhas and it was found
that 97.3% assets were in tact with the families. Thus, the general fear that the poor would
dispose off their assets immediately after acquisition has not been held true.

Other Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes:

1. This is the first project in the Rajasthan which was implemented by GO & NGO partnership.
    There being no prior experience of such association, a lot of policy and procedural guidelines
    were amended from time to time based on the problems encountered during the course of the
    project.

2. There was a severe draught in the year 2001-03 due to which CIGs were unable to submit
    their beneficiary contribution.       Therefore, sub projects implementation got delayed.

3. There were three elections during the year 2003-04, due to this the election code of conduct
    was imposed and new sub projects were not sanctioned in this period.

4. The project adopted the cluster approach i.e. 1st year only one cluster from each district were
    taken up and subsequently 2nd and 3rd clusters were taken up. Only after 3rd year (i.e. 2003)
    the remaining areas of each district were taken up where as the schedule closing date of the
    project was June 30, 2005.

5. The guidelines of the project were issued almost one year later after the start of the project so
    the sanctioning of the sub projects was started after one year from the start of the project.

6. In the initial year of the project sufficient number of good and reputed NGO did not apply to
    work, due to which selection criteria of the NGOs were relaxed in the year 2004. Therefore, a
    lot of NGOs started working only after 2004.

7. Due to the non availability of good NGOs in the initial stage, short term agreements (one
    year) were signed. The agreements were than extended on the performance basis. Signing of
    Agreements in bits and pieces affected the momentum of work by the NGOs.

8. Under DPIP, about 70% of the poor people opted for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
    Livestock activities. Non farm activities are yet not very popular with the poor people.

9. The frequent transfers of the State Project Director as well as District Project Managers at
    district level also affected the progress of the project.




                                                  40

10. In the initial years the deployment of staff at SPMU level as well as DPMU level was much
     less than the sanctioned and required strength due to which the monitoring and supervision of
     the project has suffered.

11. The high attrition rate of staff at NGO level has also adversely affected the progress and
     performance of the project.

12. NGOs have also not performed all the works and duties as envisaged in the agreement with
     them which has resulted into week capacity building of CIGs.

Bank Performance

The Bank: The Bank provided valuable inputs in developing the community demand driven
strategy which is central to the project. The Bank had a productive dialogue with the GOR in the
areas of social mobilization, development of CBOs, establishing CIF and project implementation
arrangements.

The Supervision Missions: The Bank Supervision Missions worked in close coordination with
DPIP to achieve the PDO of the project. The successive Supervision Missions provided in depth
analysis and suitable solution of the problems faced by project during implementation. The
Missions spent lot of time with all the stakeholders viz. DPIP Staffs, Facilitating NGOs and
Service Providers of the project and provided useful feedbacks in each mission and then follow
up of suggestive measures.

PMU: The PMU has been extremely dedicated in the implementation of the project. A
remarkable aspect of the implementation is the extent which the project top management
internalized the values, approach and methods of community demand driven development. The
attitudes and behavior of the project staff at all levels was a key factor in the success of the
project, especially in promoting institution development and community participation in planning
and implementation of the project activities. The top project management provided very effective
over sight, guidance and sustained support to the District project units. The DPMUs enjoyed
excellent working relationships with the front line staff, facilitators, resource persons and activists.
The SPD and DPMs provided close support supervision to the project functionaries and CIGs.

Other Issues in Implementation

· Time taken by NGO for preparation of sub project: After the formation of groups, NGO
     has taken considerable time for preparation of subproject of income generating activity. The
     assessment is given below:
     o 37.51% cases with in 4 months;
     o 44.64% cases from 4 to 8 months;
     o 17.85% cases from 8 to 25 months;

· The main reasons for delay were modifications in subprojects by subject specialist of NGO,
     delay by CIG members in the submission of related documents, members having doubts
     about subproject, no regular savings by members and slow working by NGOs. The DPMUs
     has taken less time for sanctioning of subprojects.

· Adequacy of fund for subproject: In 94.64% cases, CIGs have reported that the cost of
     subproject was sufficient to implement it where as 5.36% CIGs reported as insufficient.



                                                 41

    · Availability of Assets: The assets purchased by the members of CIGs have been found
        available in 94.22%, partially available in 0.96% and found missing in 4.82% cases. The
        main reason for missing of assets is distribution of assets among members after dispute in
        groups and thereof destroying of assets.

    · Utilization of Assets: In the 82.14% cases assets are being utilized by CIGs, whereas in
        5.36% cases partial utilization and 12.50% no utilization of assets have been found. The
        reason for no utilization of assets is non availability of raw material and no assured
        market linkage.

    · In the micro enterprise activities, 66.67% CIGs have reported unavailability of raw
        material and 80% CIGs reported no market linkages.

    · Increase in income: In the groups of Income generating activities and Land based
        activities, the increase in income is 50.72% and 33.52% respectively.

    · Annual Income from assets: Total annual income from the assets provided for income
        generating activities under the project, have found to be more than Rs.20,000 in 35.78%
        cases and less than Rs. 20,000 in 64.22%. In case of Land based subproject, income has
        been increased but in any case it is not more than Rs.20,000.

    · Impact of Infrastructure created under the project: Under the Community and Social
        Service subprojects, works of Toilets, Bathrooms and Housing have been taken. These
        works have been carried out on the lands of beneficiaries. Due to construction works, for
        members of CIGs

    · Monthly meetings: About 69.64% CIGs are organizing meeting regularly, 19.64% not
        regularly while in 10.72% cases CIGs are not conducting any meeting.

Weaknesses of the Project:

        · Inactiveness of NGOs in the field;
        · Lesser number of Community facilitator in the field;
        · No regular saving on the part of CIG's members;
        · Training not provided at the appropriate time;
        · Change of subprojects by groups;
        · Lack of Bank linkages for working capital of income generating activity;
        · Lack of Backward and Forward linkages in the Micro enterprises subproject activity;
        · Lack of coordination in purchasing of assets;
        · Lack of group dynamics:
        · Lack of supervision during implementation of subprojects;

Lessons Learned from Rajasthan DPIP

There has come a sea charge in the situation because the benefits of the opportunities offered by
the World Bank funded DPIP unfolded gradually and are better appreciated now at project, NGO
and beneficiary levels; similarly there is greater appreciation of the new role situations at the
project, NGO and beneficiary levels. This is positively reflected in the smooth working of the
project and impressive outcomes. The project staff is now better equipped and also more
confident to face new challenges.


                                                 42

Most important impact of the DPIP is an opportunity given to the beneficiaries to work in a group
for cooperative related activities and become a part of decision making. The leadership qualities
dormant hitherto for want of opportunities are now unfolding gradually. These opportunities also
bring them close to PRIs and offer opportunities for participation in PRI activities. The nature of
the project is such that the beneficiaries have to know the related schemes for fuller benefits. This
helps provide useful exposure to the beneficiaries for empowerment.
The seven year long project provides a number of lessons for development projects in general and
poverty alleviation initiatives in particular. Some of the key lessons emerging from the project are
briefly summarized in the following.

Importance of Bank linkage: About 15%- 20% CIGs have acquired additional assets through
own/ bank resources indicating a growth of business and more Groups demand for more credit­
bank linkages. Hence there is a need to build capabilities of CIG's to bring them to a level where
banks will have no hesitation to provide loan.

Limits to Social Mobilization: The project has mobilized a large proportion of POP and Poor
households into the SHG fold. However, certain households (migrants, seasonal migrants,
households with aged persons and the destitute) could not be mobilized into the SHGs. There are
inherent limitations to social mobilization. A separate strategy would be required to address
households and individuals who cannot be mobilized into the SHGs.

Early Social Mobilization and Capacity Building: The project experience shows that social
mobilization and capacity building is process oriented, and therefore, takes time to start-up but
produce good results when matured. The project should refrain from forming new CIG's in the
last phase of the project.

Multiple doses of Orientation and SBT: The project has felt that single training of orientation
as well as SBT is not sufficient and it should be repeated at some suitable interval of 6 to 9
months. Secondly the duration of one SBT should not be more than 15 days. The capacity
building measures should also focus on skill development for employment creation.

More emphasis on Convergence: Provision of assets alone is not adequate. These assets need to
be put to productive use. This requires convergence and coordination with schemes related to
social welfare, rural development and rural employment.

Selected Demand Driven approach: Providing income generating livelihood activity to group
of poor people (as CIGs) based on demand only will not be a viable proposition. Activity should
be provided based on the livelihood activities as reflected in block level livelihoods plan and
choice of livelihoods activities determined by market opportunities, institutional partnership and
linkages

Need for Clustering: The project experience shows that creating sustainable livelihoods for the
poor and moving them out of poverty needs investments beyond forming groups (CIGs) and
providing income generating asset. Sustainability, among others, needs aggregation for voice and
scale this requires clustering.

Emphasis of Bank Linkages rather than high subsidy: High subsidy (80-90% of project cost)
though desirable but dilutes ownership and stake in the assets and reduces their sustainability. As
a result of high subsidy, the project could benefit only 100,000 persons as against 300,000 as
originally envisaged.


                                                 43

Lack of Group Dynamics: The project feels that members of CIGs have performed better where
they had to perform individually than when the activity was of such type that Group had to
perform cohesively.

Importance of Social Capital: A significant output of the DPIP is the creation of a resource of
Social Activists, Para-Workers and Resource Persons drawn from the poor and village. The
valuable resource stock could be used for enhancing implementation efficiency of development
programs of the line departments. The DPIP has successfully demonstrated that the well trained
and experienced community resource persons perform the project activities as efficiently as the
project staff at economical rates.

Importance of Vision Building and Value Inculcation: The sustainability of CIGs critically
hinges on the vision of the members and the values they have imbibed. Mere external financial
support would not contribute to sustainability of the institutions and promotion of livelihoods of
the poor.

Importance of Bookkeeping: Institution of appropriate bookkeeping arrangements (appropriate
books, trained and qualified book-keepers and book-keeping practices) are an essential
prerequisite for successful financial management and Bank Linkages.

Collective Marketing Activities: The Producer Companies have successfully demonstrated their
ability to undertake collective procurement of agricultural inputs, agri-output and market them for
the benefit of the small and marginal farmers and NTFP collectors. These operations have a very
favorable impact on the over all market prices.

Non-Farm Livelihoods: Due to absence of other viable and feasible livelihood opportunities a
large proportion of the project promoted investment went into livestock and allied activities and
petty trade and service activities, which are relatively low productive areas. The lesson is that the
government and the development projects should focus on promotion of non-farm livelihoods of
the poor.

Building New Institutions around Livelihoods: While the CIGs have proved to be very vibrant
organizations efficiently handling complex livelihood activities, there are inherent limitations to
their capacities. There is need for developing new institutions around certain livelihoods viz.,
Dairy, Agriculture, NPM, Marketing, NTFP, etc.

Convergence with Line Departments: Despite the progress in the convergence efforts of the
project, there is great scope for promoting coordination with the PRIs and other line departments
such as health, education, forest and revenue at the GP, Block and district level.

Tasks Ahead and Future Plans:

Second Phase of DPIP: After the success of DPIP-I, the proposal for DPIP-II has been submitted
to GoI. The implementation of DPIP-II has modified keeping in view of the lessons learnt from
DPIP-I with lesser subsidy and more emphasis on Bank linkages .The Objective of DPIP-II is to
benefit 4.0 lac BPL families to improve their livelihood by Capacity Building, Empowerment and
Sustainable Livelihood activity.

Consolidation by Clustering or Higher Institution Building: Great efforts have given into the
phase-I of DPIP for the benefit and development of the poor. However, appreciating the fact that


                                                 44

if a mechanism is not in place for providing sustainability of livelihoods, the efforts hitherto made
are likely to be less effective particularly when the beneficiaries are poor and exposed to the risk
of falling into poverty- trap again. Therefore, consolidation of efforts made in phase- I will get
due place in the strategy of DPIP in phase- II. The beneficiaries in phase-I are at a stage when
they need strengthened backward and forward linkages for marketing of products for
sustainability.

CIG Book-keeping: The CIGs do not have adequate number of trained book-keepers. Low
honorarium, reluctance of some SHGs to pay honorarium and over burdening appeared to be the
main reasons for high turn over of book-keepers. The project management is alive to this problem
and take up identification and training of CIG members in the DPIP-II to overcome the problem.

Second Line Leadership Development: Sustained capacity building has improved the
managerial capabilities of their leaders. However, second line leadership needs to be developed
and nurtured in these organizations to ensure sustained governance and financial management.
The project's focus on institution of good practices including leadership rotation is catalyzing the
desired change.

Social Audit of Project: The project has introduced the mechanism of approval of expenditure
incurred for providing income generating livelihood activity to CIGs by Gram Sabha. Social audit
along with internal audit mechanisms to promote transparency and downward accountability in
the CIGs need to be pursued further.




                                                 45

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Ms Asmeen Khan
Task Team Leader
Rajasthan DPIP
The World Bank
New Delhi

Dear Asmeen:

         Subject: Comments on the ICR by Self-Reliant Initiatives through Joint Action
                   (SRIJAN)

Thank you for giving us the opportunity to comment on the ICR. The ICR author has done a
thorough and fair job. He has accurately diagnosed the issues of government-NGO partnership. I
share some of my views. I have been involved in the project from its inception and SRIJAN has
been an implementation partner.

At the outset, we must state it categorically that SRIJAN has benefited from this partnership
immensely. Government's (DPIP's) contribution through successive leadership's support to our
community managed dairy program in Deoli block of Tonk district has been remarkable. We
promoted more than 100 groups focused on a single economic activity, dairy, and more than 180
SHGs, federated into a vibrant women's organization, Maitree. In dairy alone, the DPIP
investment was more than 32 million rupees. This Livelihoods Self Help Group based livelihoods
cluster has become a model for us to replicate.

This is useful to recount some of the processes as they unfolded, however, in order to derive some
lessons.

Capacity building of the poor in this project implied formation of common interest groups that
got further linked with the sub-project investment. Output based contracts with NGOs in turn
rewarded the latter for number of CIGs formed and the subprojects formulated, sanctioned,
money disbursed. Given this modality of partnership, especially the payments basis, NGOs had
no incentive to spend time in the villages to reach out and identify the genuinely poor and
disempowered including women, a very important process in a caste layered male dominant
Rajasthan society. Even though money was given upfront, subsequent bills were not processed
with any alacrity by the district units. Ironically those NGOs that focused merely on group
formation and subproject formulation, and bypassed the processes of empowerment would get
rewarded in such a system.

Changed introduced mid term improved the things substantially. In involving NGOs such as
PRADAN, SRIJAN, Seva Mandir, IFFDC, and Lupin in the process of reviewing the progress of
the project and introducing these changes, the Bank staff and the government leadership made
amends for the mistakes made earlier.     It recognized the value of forming good quality groups
(again not merely forming SHGs), and also recognized to some extent what is meant by
livelihoods promotion, as distinct from assetisation (distributing buffaloes, goats or looms). The
Bank staff role in looking at the transparency and rent seeking issues was exemplary, timely, and
put brakes on slippages.

Some comments are in order on these changes. While Q&S indicators certainly motivated NGO
staff to work for the right outcomes, the project leadership could have been more encouraging to


                                                46

promote producers' federations. Federations are invested with much hope and aspirations of the
poor people. We think though the support was forthcoming from the district collector and project
leadership it was more in terms of words and promises rather than action (in terms of resources,
land, linkages with banks, training and exposure for the women leaders).                 Particularly
disheartening was the DPIP's lack of support and indifference to 2000 women member strong
Maitree and its milk marketing activities in Tonk when RCDF first refused to pick up the milk
(DPIP has given 3 crore rupees for some 2400 buffaloes here) and then actively tried to undercut
and even kill the initiative of the poor women to stand on their own and establish their own dairy.

ICR does mention that some NGOs continued to support the CIGs despite difficulties but fails to
mention the role of private donors that helped NGOs sustain their partnership with DPIP, by
providing resources for teams and innovative pilots missing in the project design. In our case, Sir
Ratan Tata Trust supported SHG formation, and American India Foundation supported value
chain development of the dairy program.

Our suggestion of establishing a tripartite relationship among government, private donor (Sir
Ratan Tata Trust), and NGOs (SRIJAN and PRADAN) was initially welcomed by government
but never got followed up seriously. It should have been converted into a proper MOU ­
recognizing the contribution being made by all three partners in developing a livelihoods program
at the grassroots.

We also think that ICR comments praising the government leadership's role in the initial period
of the project are misplaced. It failed to recognize, in our view, that a SPMU kind of structure
would not function autonomously and would actually function practically like a department with
same financial rules, what with most of the staff also coming from the government. This,
combined with the turnstile kind of leadership changes at the top and NGO distrusting attitude in
the state office practically killed the spirit and took the oxygen out of everything. This went
through substantial change only around 2005/2006 and much credit for this should go to the
World Bank staff who brought the state of affairs to the notice of the state political and
administrative leadership. Hence our conclusion is that it is not the contractual details that matter,
rather the relationship, attitudes, and shared vision of the program that determine the outcomes.

What do we, as CSO partners with the government, learn from this experience?

One, the issue of shared understanding and mutual trust among partners is the most important.
Even though there is consultation with NGOs during design/preparation, that equation alters once
the project is launched. Often the project leadership changes too. Our learning is that we need to
build a common perspective with the leadership.

We suggest therefore, the projects envisioning partnerships with NGOs, should allow for
workshops or forums that would bring the NGO leadership and project leadership together to
develop a shared understanding of the project ­ its objectives, outcomes, and the way the
partnership (or even the contract) would work.


Two, the difference and chasm between the perspective and lenses of the state leadership and
district level management is very big. The field NGOs (their teams) will work primarily with the
district management units, on a day to day basis, and the latter do not in general like the fact that
field NGOs build any relationship with the state unit. Our learning is that while we need to invest
in the relationship with the district, often it is very time consuming and without any result.




                                                    47

Our suggestion to the Project design team of the follow on project would be to invest in good
quality staff at the district level and further in their capacity building vis a vis the development
perspective, and incentivise their performance with development outcomes.


Three, NGOs need to build long term partnership with a private donor so as to fill gaps in
investment and costs, but also to steady the process of building people's organization and other
linkages such as with market and banks.

    Our suggestion to the World Bank as well as the Government is that they should
    recognize the contribution up front in the form of MOUs.


I hope these comments would be useful.

I once again thank you for the opportunity.

Best regards

Sincerely


Ved Arya
Managing Trustee, SRIJAN




                                                  48

Annex 9. Livestock and Dairy Sub-projects

Introduction

Dairy accounted for 45% of all activities within animal husbandry groups and 22% of all CIGs
initiated under the project overall. Within dairying, the project collaborated with Rajasthan
Cooperative Dairy Federation (RCDF), an apex cooperative organization of the state, and
affiliated District Milk Cooperative Unions to promote institution building, social capital
development, create backward and forward linkages and build the capacity of dairy CIGs. Nearly,
39% of dairy CIGs were formed under the aegis of RCDF and the remaining 61% through various
other NGOs at the district level. Many of the CIGs formed by NGOs have in the due course
established marketing linkages with RCDF for assured market and stable prices, taking the total
number of associated CIGs to 3,500.

RCDF Partnership Arrangement:

In the RCDF arrangement, existing dairy CIGs on the RCDF's milk route were simply linked to
the operating DCS for assured market linkage; while the areas that do not have a milk route, new
CIGs were formed by RCDF and connected to milk routes or else new milk routes were
established to reach them. RCDF was paid a facilitation charge of US$375 per CIG to organize
and sustain CIGs. A comprehensive dairy support system were formulated to include all vital
inputs: asset building, technical know-how, operational support, market and financial linkages,
and capacity building and infrastructure development, essential for a sustainable dairy unit and to
accrue desired benefits from the initiative.

Achievements

     · 3,500 CIG linkages with milk cooperative procurement and marketing system
     · Additional income of US$ 30-40 per month to each CIG member
     · US$575,000 savings by Dairy CIGs
     · RCDF is procuring around 40,000 LPD2 from DPIP dairy CIGs.
     · Positive cash flows in dairy activities and IRR ranging from 25-36%3


                                         DPIP Dairy CIGs                      Daily (liters)

                            Total Milk Production                                126,582

                            Marketable Surplus (40% of total milk
                            production)                                          50,633

                            RCDF Procurement (79% of marketable
                            surplus)                                             40,000




2Liters Per Day


3DPIP Rajasthan Evaluation Report: Non-Farm Livelihoods, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resource Management Activities
(Adarsh Kumar)




                                                            49

Impact of intervention

· Social Impact: - Since distribution of livestock is more equitable than land, growth is
  antipoverty and equity-oriented. Livestock assets used in dairy production provides a key
  avenue for capital accumulation, financing other productive activities and acting as insurance
  for these resource-poor, thereby improving the social status of the rural poor in the society.
  Dairying promotes gender and social equity. In the dairying sub-sector, women are mostly
  seen looking after livestock animals; dairy cooperative set-up has encouraged such
  participation and empowerment of women, now creating a space for them to be decision -
  makers at the village level. At improved incomes, the number of children attending school
  has expanded because of the high income elasticity of demand for education in Indian
  villages and general improvement is visible in the general living conditions of households.

    Subuddhi's change of fate

    A BPL farmer, Subuddhi has a family of five in Ramgarh village in the Dausa district of Rajasthan. He
    owns 7 bighas of land and grows wheat, millets, sorghum, cluster beans & lucerne for subsistence
    and fodder.He is a member of the Bhumiya Baba dairy CIG that was formed in March 2004 with 15
    Members (3 Women and 12 Men). The project financed his purchase of two buffaloes and a calf,
    one that he bought in July 2004 and other in October 2005 from Haryana. In addition, he received a
    subsidy for shelter for buffaloes, manger and a chaff cutter. Soon after, with the RCDF intervention,
    he was linked to and registered as a member of Gola ki Dhani DCS. Now he owns 3 adult buffaloes
    and one 12-month old heifer. His animals are stall-fed with dry and green fodder and concentrate
    feed, and are milked twice a day. He pours milk at the collection centre both times in the day.

    Production Income / Expenses for Jan-Dec 2007
    Milk consumption at home: 660 liters (2 liters a day)
    Total sale volume to DCS: 3920 liters
    Rate per liter: $0.42 (7 % F & 9 % SNF)
    Total sale value from DCS: US$1680
    Bonus Received from DCS: US$336
    Total milk Income: US$2016
    Expenses during the year for feeding and managing three Adult buffaloes and one heifer:
    US$0.75 per animal per day: US$1095

    Net Income from DPIP Dairy Business in 2007: US$921

    Bhomiya Baba Dairy CIG has emerged as a Self Help Group, saving US$1.20 per member per
    month. The SHG has started inter-loaning since 2004 at 1% interest rate per month. The group has
    saved US$1200 and has no bad debts so far.


· Economic Impact: Dairy activity generates incremental income for households and reduces
  the longstanding problems of unemployment and underemployment. Regular payment by the
  DCS' has ensured uninterrupted flow of cash income for fulfilling consumption needs of
  members. CIG have migrated to SHG pattern of working and have accumulated savings and
  initiated inter-loaning activity within the group.

· Household Nutrition and Food Security: Availability of milk for consumption promises
  food security and guarantees better health and nutrition for rural households, especially
  women and children.

· Access to services: Members are exposed to community development and group dynamics,
  have access to credit, other facilities such as bank loans, insurance schemes etc.




                                                     50

Annex 10: Detailed Review of Environmental Compliance

Institutional Arrangements
The institutional structure in the Rajasthan DPIP for implementation of the EMF involved an
external service provider referred to as the Environment Agency. The Civil Engineering
Department of the Malaviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT) was appointed as
Environment Agency for the full duration of the project. However, delays in the release of
payments to MNIT led to their decreased involvement in the project in the later years. The SPMU
did not have an environmental nodal point for most of the project duration. In 2005, the General
Manager Project Appraisal at the SPMU was designated as the nodal officer for EMF
implementation. The lack of this key position delayed timely sharing of information with key
stakeholders and implementation of key actions in the EMF. Each NGO involved in the project
was obliged to appoint 2 specialists out of a choice of 6 specialists in each cluster level
facilitation team. While an environmental specialist was one of the 6 suggested specialists, such
an appointment was absent in most teams. The project stakeholders view this as an important
factor that has limited the implementation of the EMF.

Assessment Process and Tools
The EMF required that each sub-project under the DPIP go through a process of screening and
assessment at three possible levels, each level indicating a higher negative environmental impact
than the previous level. The three levels were: Environmental Review (ER), Limited
Environmental Assessment (LEA) and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). The MNIT
developed tools for screening and assessment. The tools were revised in 2004 to do away with a
screening system of numeric scoring, that had caused field teams to under report impacts, and to
enhance the ease of assessment by the field staff. This revision enabled more meaningful use of
the tools by the field teams.

In addition to the tools, MNIT developed a list of potential impacts and mitigation guidelines for
25 activities identified as requiring ER and over 10 activities requiring LEA. The guidelines were
circulated in 2001 to the DPMUs and NGOs. However, in the later years most field teams did not
have a copy of the guidelines with the result that for a majority of sub-projects, only initial
screening, and no further assessment, was being done. The tools listed 11 types of sub-projects
which were to be directed to MNIT for assessment. In 2003, this was expanded to include all sub-
projects above US$325,000. In all, MNIT received about 20 requests for such assessment
covering about 200 individual sub-projects. However, MNIT conducted this assessment on the
basis of detailed information requested from the DPMU, no field assessments were conducted.
Through MNIT, the project organized intensive training at the state level for key NGO personnel
in the EMF. Several of the trained NGO personnel left the project while no further state level
training for the new NGO personnel could be organized in the later years. This also affected EMF
implementation adversely.

A positive outcome was that MNIT documented activity-wise learnings on environmental
assessment (Lessons Learnt, 2005) and environmental guidelines for micro-enterprises for use by
the DPMUs and the NGOs. The tools and guidelines developed as part of the Rajasthan DPIP
have been adapted for use in the Chhattisgarh DPIP.

Environmental Supervision
During the project duration, MNIT conducted over 70 field visits to review the field outcomes of
the EMF. The visits were made at a frequency of 6 months throughout the project period (till
early 2007). While the actual number of sub-projects visited by the MNIT in these field visits is



                                                51

not clear, it is likely to be less than the 10% sub-projects recommended in the EMF. The
recommendations of the MNIT for improved environmental management were circulated by the
SPMU to all the DPMUs. Several of these recommendations have been implemented by the CIGs
(for example, use of protective gear, safety guidelines, etc.).

Proactive Environmental Interventions
The project has been able to proactively source the technical expertise available with several
agencies (for example, MNIT, SWATCH, Forest Department, etc.) for initiating several
environment-friendly subprojects. These have included:
         Construction of over 3,500 houses for the Sahariya community in Baran district
         incorporating elements such as adequate ventilation, separate kitchen space, etc.
         Construction of 381 traditional water harvesting structures (Kunds) in Churu district for
         supporting horticulture.
         Regeneration of about 8,000 hectares of degraded forest land through the Van Jan Shakti
         programme in Baran district through the participation of the Sahariya tribal community.
         Deflouridation programme in Churu, Dausa and Tonk districts through which families of
         60 CIGs have been provided deflouridation filters along with training on their use.

While these interventions helped to demonstrate environment-friendly technologies, they did not
incorporate holistic environmental management. For example, sanitation facilities were not
included as part of the Sahariya housing sub-project and non-chemical pest management was not
planned as part of the horticulture activity in the Kund sub-projects.

Animal Husbandry
The animals purchased for the dairy sub-projects are buffaloes of the Murrah and Surti breeds
from Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat. This is in tune with the State Breeding Policy 2005-06 that
seeks to promote high yielding indigenous pure breed cattle (Murra and Surti are indigenous
buffalo breeds in Rajasthan). Some 28 Bulk Milk Coolers (BMCs) were procured as part of the
project. While the RCDF is aware of the environmental guidelines for BMCs provided by the
MNIT, the provision of a soak pit was done in only about 5 BMCs, the primary limitation being
that most BMCs are on rented premises. Approximately 3,600 goatery sub-projects have been
supported under the DPIP. However, the number of such projects supported has shown a
declining trend over time. Both MNIT and SPMU attribute this to the growing awareness of
negative environmental impacts of goat sub-projects as a result of EMF training and supervision
activities.

Water Resources
As of 2004, about 12% of the sub-projects involved increase in the extraction of water for
irrigation and drinking water. A majority of the drinking water wells/tube wells sub-projects were
in the drought-affected districts as part of the community infrastructure relief works. The rest
were irrigation wells and tube wells as well as anicuts for water conservation. The project has
been responsive to the Bank staff recommendations to focus greater attention on the sustainable
use of water. Even by 2007, the share of sub-projects related to water resources continued to
remain at around 10% (1906 sub-projects out of a total of 19,349 sub-projects). However, of these
1,906 sub-projects, while about 45% involved water extraction (irrigated agriculture, sanitation,
etc.) the rest (55%) focused on water resource augmentation (kunds, talab nirman, watershed
development, etc.) through the application of both modern as well as traditional technology.

Environmental Audit
An external environmental audit for the RDPIP was to be done every two years. However, this
was not carried out.


                                                  52

 Annex 11: Convergence with other Government Schemes

Though convergence was not an objective of the project or defined in the results framework, over
the life of the project, CIG sub-projects were converged with some 12 government schemes for a
total value of $35.6 million. This convergence leveraged significant government resources in the
process. Projects ranged from physical construction of additional school rooms, health centers
and building as part of drought relief work during the 2003-4 drought; natural resource
management projects including watershed rehabilitation and joint forest management activities
(Van Jan Shakti). A significant percentage of the convergence activities (70%) took place in
Baran district as these were special projects targeted at Sahariya Tribals. These activities included
special low cost housing and joint forest management activities where Sahariyas were paid wage
labor for forest protection activities and allowed to collect minor forest products and grass from
the forest enclosures.

Under the Sahariya low cost housing project 3,500 houses were financed by the project. The
project benefited 4,000 Sahariya households in Baran district.




                                                 53

54

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Project Appraisal Document
  2. IDS Jaipur Final Impact Evaluation Report
  3. IDS Jaipur Process Monitoring Reports
  4. DPIP Final Livelihoods Evaluation Note




                                          55

MAP IBRD No. 30820




                      56

