                                                 CONFORMED COPY


                                           CREDIT NUMBER 3875 SE




Development Credit Agreement
       (Private Sector Structural Adjustment Credit)


                         between


               REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL


                           and


    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                   Dated June 18, 2004
                                                            CREDIT NUMBER 3875 SE

                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the
Borrower)     and INTERNATIONAL      DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION        (the
Association).

         WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower letters dated
respectively April 03, 2003, April 17, 2003, May 23, 2003 and June 06, 2003, describing
therein various programs of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the fiscal framework, postal services, and pension sub-sectors
within the private sector of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter collectively called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the
execution thereof; and

         (B)     on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit
in four tranches as hereinafter provided;

        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                      ARTICLE I

                            General Conditions; Definitions

         Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6,
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:

                (a)     Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:

                        "'Project' means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the
                Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is
                made.";
                (b)     Section 4.01 is modified to read:

                        "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
                agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
                currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the
                Development Credit Agreement.";

                (c)     Section 5.01 is modified to read:

                        "The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the
                Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the
                Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions";

                (d)     The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;

                (e)     Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:

                         "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
                later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
                the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
                Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in
                the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by
                the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
                the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
                purposes of the Credit."; and

                (f)     Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified
                above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05,
                9.06 and 9.07.

       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

         (a)    "ART" means Agence de Regulation des Telecommunications, an entity
established and operating under Law 2001-2115 of the Borrower dated December 27,
2001, which is responsible for regulating telecommunications activities, and the
provision of services in respect thereof, in the territory of the Borrower;
                                          -3-



       (b)     "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'Afrique de l 'Ouest, the
Borrower's central bank;

        (c)     "Cabinet" means an organ of the Borrower's government comprising the
President, the Prime Minster and all line Ministers, as specified in the Borrower's
Constitution;

        (d)       "CFCE" means Contributionforfaitaire a la charge de 1'Employeur, a
vocational training tax in the Borrower's tax system;

        (e)     "TEC" means Tarif Exterieur Commun, the regional external tariff
adopted by the Borrower pursuant to WAEMU's (as hereinafter defined) directives;

        (f)     "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;

       (g)     "Divestiture" means the disposal, including the sale or concession by the
Borrower, or any operation agreed with the Association, of an interest held by the
Borrower in any statutory corporation, company or partnership;

       (h)      "Euro" means the currency specified in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;

        (i)     "FCFA" means Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine, the
currency of the Borrower;

         (j)    "FNR" means Fonds National de Retraite, the Borrower's pension plan
established pursuant to Law No 61-36 dated June 06, 1961, which is responsible for
administering the Borrower's civil service pension scheme;

        (k)     "IPRES" means Institution de Prevoyance Retraite du Senegal, the
Borrower's pension plan established pursuant to Law No 75-50 dated April 3, 1975,
which is responsible for administering the pension scheme for private sectors workers of
the Borrower's territory, including those of state-owned enterprises and parastatals;

       (1)     "METR" means Marginal Effective Tax Rate;

        (m)    "SNP" means Societe Nationale de la Poste, an entity established and
operating pursuant to Law 9524 of the Borrower dated August 29, 1995, which is
                                            -4-



responsible for operating postal services and associated financial services in the territory
of the Borrower;

         (n)     "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower, in an amount of SDR 340,000, pursuant to a
letter signed on behalf of the Association on March 28, 2003, and on behalf of the
Borrower on April 14, 2003;

        (o)     "First Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 5,760,000 to be released by the Association on or after effectiveness;

        (p)      "Tax Reform Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not exceeding
the equivalent of SDR 4,700,000 to be released by the Association after the Borrower
shall have carried out the actions specified in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
otherwise complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;

        (q)    "Postal Services Reform Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000 to be released by the Association after the
Borrower shall have carried out the actions specified in Part B of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and otherwise complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this
Agreement;

        (r)    "Pension System Reform Tranche" means the portion of the Credit not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 13,400,000 to be released by the Association after the
Borrower shall have carried out the actions specified in Part C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and otherwise complied with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this
Agreement;

        (s)     "Subsequent Tranches" means collectively, the Tax Reform Tranche,
Postal Services Reform Tranche, Pension System Reform Tranche, and "Subsequent
Tranche" means any of the Subsequent Tranches;

        (t)     "VAT" means Value-Added Tax; and

        (u)     "WAEMU" means West African Economic and Monetary Union.
                                      ARTICLE II

                                       The Credit

        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 30,200,000).

        Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the
Credit Account in support of the Program.

        (b)     The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central
bank, a deposit account in Euros on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the
Deposit Account.

        (c)      The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation.

        (d)     Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
canceled.

        (e)      No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have
reached the amount of the First Tranche unless, with respect to each Subsequent
Tranche, the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
                                            - 6-



                 (i)     with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
                         of the Program;

                 (ii)    that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is
                         satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed
                         between the Borrower and the Association; and

                 (iii)   that the relevant prior actions described in Schedule 2 to this
                         Agreement have been taken with respect to each Subsequent
                         Tranche.

If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association may
give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the
Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii)
and (iii) above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.

         Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as
 the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
 such later date.

         Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

         (b)      The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.

         (c)      The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on November 1 and May 1 in each year.

         Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
November 1 and May 1, commencing May 1, 2014 and ending November 1, 2043. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2023 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.

         (b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by:

                (A)     requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
                        installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
                        shall have been repaid; and

                (B)     requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal
                        amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date
                        referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after
                        the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the
                        events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided,
                        however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five
                        years on such repayment of principal.

         (c)     If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
                                           - 8-



         (d)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.

        Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.

                                     ARTICLE III

                                 Particular Covenants

        Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

        (b)     Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.

        (c)      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

        Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:

        (a)     have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;

        (b)     furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and

       (c)     furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
                                           -9-



                                      ARTICLE IV

                            Additional Event of Suspension

        Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.

                                      ARTICLE V

                              Effective Date; Termination

         Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Condition, namely, the Borrower has implemented the
agreed action plan for the edible oil sector reform regarding the elimination or reduction,
as the case may be, of the economic distortions in the areas of trade, domestic market and
financial sector policy, inter alia, through the elimination of the TCI and Taxe
Specifique on edible oils.

         Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                          - 10-



                                     ARTICLE VI

                      Representative of the Borrower; Addresses

        Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.

        Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

        For the Borrower:

                Ministry of Economy and Finance
                Rue Rene N'diaye
                B.P. 4017
                Dakar
                Senegal

                Cable address:                             Telex:

                MIN4IFINANCES                              3203 G
                                                           Dakar

        For the Association:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:                    Telex:                Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                           248423 (MCI) or       (202) 477-6391
                Washington, D.C.                  64145 (MCI)
                                        - 11 -



        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of the day and year first above written.


                              REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL




                              By      Isl Abdoulaye Diop
                                                            Authorized Representative



                              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                              By      Is! John McIntire
                                                            Authorized Representative
                                          - 12   -




                                    SCHEDULE 1

                                Excluded Expenditures

        For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:

1.       expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower, provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which the works, goods and
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods works or services
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures";

2.       expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;

3.      expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups        of the
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published    by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),     or any
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated     by the
Association by notice to the Borrower:

           Group                            Subgroup            Description of Items

            112                                                 Alcoholic beverages

            121                                                 Tobacco, unmanu-
                                                                factured, tobacco
                                                                refuse

            122                                                Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                (whether or not
                                                                containing tobacco
                                                                substitutes)

           525                                                  Radioactive and
                                                                associated materials

           667                                                  Pearls, precious and
                                                                semiprecious
                                                                stones, unworked
                                                                or worked
                                          -   13   -




            Group                              Subgroup          Description of Items

            718                               718.7              Nuclear reactors, and
                                                                 parts thereof; fuel
                                                                 elements (cartridges),
                                                                 non-irradiated, for
                                                                 nuclear reactors

            728                               728.43             Tobacco processing
                                                                 machinery

            897                               897.3              Jewelry of gold,
                                                                 silver or platinum
                                                                 group metals (except
                                                                 watches and watch
                                                                 cases) and
                                                                 goldsmiths' or
                                                                 silversmiths'
                                                                 wares (including
                                                                 set gems)

            971                                                 Gold, non-monetary
                                                                (excluding gold ores
                                                                and concentrates)

4.      expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for
luxury consumption;
5.      expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this
paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture,
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

6.      expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and

7.       expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower
or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract,
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the
Association to remedy the situation.
                                            - 14 -



                                       SCHEDULE 2

                                  Actions Referred to in
                            Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement

Part A: Tax Reform Plan

         In accordance with the fiscal management plan referred to in paragraphs 22, 23 and
24 of the Letter of Sector Policy dated April 3, 2003, the Borrower shall have furnished to
the Association the evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of the
following:

1.      reduction in the METR for the industry to 28% or less;

2.       elimination of specific exceptional tax regimes, including inconsistencies between
the TEC and the VAT, but excluding exceptional tax regimes for certain exporters, the
extractive industry sector and the tourism sector, as agreed with the Association; and

3.      harmonization of the rate of the CFCE to 3% and utilization of at least one-third
of revenues collected in respect thereof to fund a matching grant facility.

Part B: Postal Services Reform

        In accordance with the postal services reform policy referred to in paragraphs 3.2,
3.3 and 3.4 of the relevant Letter of Sector Policy dated April 17, 2003, the Borrower shall
have furnished to the Association the evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, of the following:

1.      effective transfer of responsibility for the regulation of postal services from SNP to
ART;

2.      performance-based agreement entered into between the Borrower and SNP for the
operation of postal services; and

3.       creation of a corporate subsidiary of SNP specifically responsible for the operation
of the financial services previously carried out by SNP.

Part C: Pension System Reform

         In accordance with the pension system reform policy referred to in Section IV of
the relevant Letter of Sector Policy dated June 06, 2003, the Borrower shall have furnished
to the Association the evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, of
the following:
                                          - 15   -




1.        establishment of a consultative commission responsible for overseeing the reform
of the Borrower's social security system and associated governance requirements in respect
of the management thereof, with: (i) terms of reference acceptable to the Association (ii)
members appointed with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, and
(iii) staff consisting of suitably qualified persons in adequate numbers;

2.     preparation of a report for consolidating the existing pension programs into the
Borrower pension reform plan, and implementation thereof;

3.      adoption of a new policy for private pension reform, and implementation thereof;

4.      adoption by the Board of Directors of IPRES of a new investment policy in
respect of IPRES; and

5.        clearance by the Borrower of all arrears due to IPRES so as to ensure full
restitution of affected workers rights to pension.
