                                                                                      33651
                                        Republic of Senegal
                                 PrivateSector Adjustment Credit
                                            (Cr. 3875-SE)
                    Release of the FirstFloatingTranche- Full Compliance


                                      I. BACKGROUND

 1.     Senegal i s located on the West Coast of Afnca and is part of the West African Economic
 and Monetary Union (WAEMU). With a population estimated at about 10 million, its economy
 is dominated by a few strategic sectors, including groundnut, fisheries, and services. The
 informal sector accounts for about 60 percent o f its economy. Its rural economy frequently
 suffers from drought and lacks access to basic services and infrastructure, leading to low
productivity, highemigration and higher poverty rates inrural areas. About halfo fthe population
lives incities, including 30 percent inDakar.

2.      Over the past years, Senegal has enjoyed a stable political climate, and has remained
largely unaffected byregional instability. A peace agreement was signed inthe Casamance at the
end o f 2004, generating donor support for the construction effort, including the World Bank. In
April 2000, Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, third President o f the Republic o f Senegal, and the new
Government assumed office, representing the first transition to another political party since
independence.     A new Constitution, approved in January 2001, reduced the length o f the
presidential term from seven to five years and the unlimited number o f terms to two. Legislative
elections were concluded on April 2001, and municipal elections inM a y 2002 saw a majority o f
seats won by the President's Party (Senegalese Democratic Party).

3.      The next two years will see an increase in political activities since legislative and
presidential elections are scheduled to take place in 2006 and 2007, respectively. This political
cycle may influence the pace of economic reforms and fiscal policy. Such risks became apparent
with some governmental spending irregularities in2003 (which came to light in June 2004), and
could appear again over the coming months in spite o f the recent remedial actions taken by the
authorities.

4.      Over the past few years, Senegal's macroeconomic performance has been encouraging
with GDP growth averaging over 5 percent and the absence o f major disequilibrium in its fiscal
and extemal balances. Sustained and relatively rapid economic growth has reduced the level of
absolute poverty, from 65 percent in 1994 to 57 percent in 2001, a significant achievement by
both historical and regional standards. However, Senegal remains a poor country with a GNIper
capita o f US$690 in2004, and also remains a dual economy, with two thirds o f the poor living in
rural areas.

5.      While the picture o f a stable, low inflation, growing economy, poised to substantially
reduce poverty i s accurate, there are constraints that the Government will needto address inorder
to increase economic performance in line with its new Accelerated Growth Strategy (AGS).
Since 1994, GDP growth seems to have been driven mostly by internal demand, recovering from



                                                   1

stagnation preceding the devaluation, rather than being based on external competitiveness
stemming from growth in productivity, a more favorable exchange rate and an improved
investment climate. Analysis conducted for the Country Economic Memorandum for Senegal
issued in2003 shows that despite strong GDP growth, the response o f exports to the devaluation
has been lackluster, sustainability o f commodity exports such as fish and groundnuts is fragile,
and the long-term trend in manufacturing productivity (both labor and total factor productivity)
has been one o f stagnation and even decline. Inaddition, the formal sector provides no new net
employment opportunities. About 200,000 new job seekers enter the labor market each year and
many end up underemployed or engaged in subsistence jobs. The recently completed Investment
Climate Survey highlights a number o f institutional and transversal constraints that need to be
removed before private investment will take off.

6.      Senegal thus faces a series o f developmental challenges to sustain economic growth and
achieve poverty alleviation. The Government and other Senegalese stakeholders have recognized
these challenges, which are addressed in the Government's medium-term poverty reduction
strategy and the work now being done to develop the AGS. The Government has given a clear
leading role to enhancing private sector development in these strategy initiatives. Encouraging
private activities is a prerequisite to reduce unemployment and under-employment, which remain
important, especially inremote areas and for young adults inurbanareas.

7.     The Government has started to improve the quality o f the investment climate and
strengthened structural reforms in strategic sectors. Based on recent studies, surveys and analysis
[Investment Climate Assessment, Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP),                   Doing
Business, FIAS survey] several constraints continue to limit the expansion and competitiveness
o f Senegal's private sector. Over the next few years, the Government needs to pursue its efforts
and achieve significant improvements in the provision o f infrastructure, the quality of the
investment climate and the gradual diversification o f production away from traditional resources
such as vegetable oil.      In terms of the investment climate, key obstacles to private sector
development include limited access to finance for small- and medium-sized enterprises; the poor
functioning o f the judiciary; remaining administrative barriers, with access to land being a major
issue; andthe complex tax regime.

8.     Other significant developmental challenges that have been identified include improving
the transparency and efficiency o f budgetary and financial procedures o f the State, increasing
delivery of basic social services in the regions, improving the performance o f health and
education, and increasing protection o f vulnerable groups.       IDA'SBoard approved the First
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I)in December 2004, which has focused on three
crosscutting and institutional areas:      (i)fiduciary reforms, by strengthening budgetary and
financial procedures and procurement; (ii)      decentralization, by securing financial transfers to
local governments as well as disseminating and implementing the Poverty Reduction Strategy at
the local level; and (iii)health services. This agenda has subsequently been expanded under the
planned Second PRSC, to also include wealth creation and social protection.




                                                  2

                                     11. RECENTECONOMIC PERFORMANCE


9.       In2004, real GDP growth reached6.4 percent with inflationbelow 1percent, despite the
impact of a locust infestation. Although the real effective exchange rate (REER) appreciated by
about 12 percent during November 2000-October 2004, reflectingmainly the appreciation o f the
euro (to which the CFA franc i s pegged) against the U.S. dollar, it has remained depreciated by
about 8 percent since 1994, compared to an appreciation o f the REER in almost all other
countries of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU). On the monetary
front, the BCEAO lowered its key lendingrates by two percentagepoints in an effort to stimulate
further credit growth to the private sector, but this measure failed to translate into a decline in
commercial interest rates because of excess reserves inSenegalesebanks.

 10.    In2004, the fiscal performance continuedto besatisfactory sincethe overall fiscal deficit
(including grants) remained below the IMF program ceiling o f 2.7 percent o f GDP, and the basic
fiscal balance was also better than programmed. The over-performance reflected larger-than-
expected revenue and grants, accumulation o f deposits o f public entities at the treasury, and a
decline in current expenditures.' These developments offset a sharp increase in capital
expenditures caused by a faster-than-expected rate o f project implementation, notably inprojects
fundedby external resources.

 11.    The recent economic growth has been associated with a widening o f the current account
deficit from 5.9 percent o f GDP in 2002 to 6.2 percent o f GDP in 2004. This deterioration was
driven by strong domestic demand, mainly from the public sector, and lackluster export
performance. However, substantial private capital inflows, combined with debt relief, led to an
increase o f 36 percent in the net international reserves o f the central bank, reaching about 4
months of imports at the end o f 2004.

12.     Over the past few years, private sector performance has been mixed since the overall
private investment rate declined from 12.3 percent o f GDP in 2000 to 11.8 percent o f GDP in
2004. This decline reflects the volatility o f the agricultural sector to extemal shocks and the
unequal performance o f the industrial and service sectors. A few sectors such as construction (up
by 12.4 percent in 2002 and 10.5 percent in 2003) and mining have expanded faster than the
overall economy through accessto new financing (e. g., remittances) and the arrival o f a few new
foreign investors, but others, such as fisheries and transports, have suffered over the past few
years. This absence o f dynamism i s partly the result o f lack o f significant progress in the
investment climate.* The recent Bank's hvestment Climate Assessment concluded that labor
productivity declined in Senegal over the last two decades, emphasizing the need to reverse this
trendifSenegal wants to be inapositionto achieve stronger andmore equitable growth.

13.     The macroeconomic objectives for 2005 include real GDP growth o f about 5.5 percent
and consumer price inflation o f about 2 percent, barring any major supply-side shocks. The
overall fiscal deficit (including grants) i s expected to increase slightly to about 3 percent o f GDP,



 The latest evolution o f Senegal's public finances is analyzed inthe recent Public Expenditure Review, June 2005.

 The indicators listed inDoing Business have not improved markedly between 2003 and 2004 in Senegal.

but it should be almost entirely financed by external resources. This increase will be principally
 explained by the surge in capital expenditures, with a doubling of the allocated public resources
toward infra~tructure.~     The extemal current account (including official transfers) deficit is
projected to increase to 7.5 percent o f GDP in 2005, as the result o f the larger than expected
increase in oil prices and the lack o f impetus in new exports. As discussed in the next section,
given the favorable macro-economic conditions, low debt levels, absence o f central bank
financing, and little risk o f crowding out the private sector from the credit market, such a level o f
fiscal and extemal deficits should be accommodated without undermining macroeconomic
 stability.


              111.   PROGRESSINIMPLEMENTINGTHE REFORMPROGRAM


 14.     The Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) is an integralpart o f the Bank Strategy set
forth inthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Senegal presented to the Board on April 17,
2003. The objective o f the Credit is to support the Government in the implementation o f sub-
sector reforms aimed at improving the investmentclimate and accelerating private sector growth
and employment. The PSAC supports the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy through
improving the investment climate and implementing key sector reforms by: (i)                restructuring the
edible oil sector by improving the competitive environment in which it operates, through the
elimination or reduction o f policy distortions associated with non-tariff barriers and other
domestic protection mechanisms, and o f public interventions; (ii)          supporting the implementation
of a private enterprise tax regime that stimulates investments through a level playing field and
lower taxes, and allocates user fees for private sector purposes for which they are levied; (iii)
reforming postal services by introducing greater competition in the sector, restructuring the
postal enterprise so as to enhance its sustainability and to create an autonomous financial
subsidiary that would provide savings and payment and transfer services; and (iv) bringing
changes to the pensions system to make it financially sustainable and improve its corporate
governance.


Edible OilSector Reform
15.      About 30 percent o f the Senegalese population directly or indirectly derives part o f its
livelihood from the groundnut sector. The overall liberalization efforts pursuedbythe Senegalese
Government inthe 199Os, and more recently in2001 with the divestiture o f the seeds distribution
subsidiary o f the monopolistic groundnut processing public enterprise (SONACOS), have
encouraged some efficiency gains. A major further step was taken with the successful
privatizationo f SONACOS inFebruary 2005.

16.      A sector reform strategy, outlined in the Government's Edible Oil Sector Policy Letter,
calls for the following broad actions to be taken: (i)elimination o f trade policy, and other
regulatory and financial sector distortions; (ii)divestiture o f SONACOS; (iii)              complementary
sector reforms, involving diversification o f production in groundnut producing areas as well as



 For a discussiononpublic investment spending and its effectiveness,see recentPublic ExpenditureReview, June
    2005.


                                                      4

possible downstream measures to meet untapped demand; and (iv) clearance o f accumulated
liabilities, estimated at under CFAF 10 billion, through a one-time financial restructuring o f the
sector.

 17.     The PSAC focuses on the elimination o f the most serious trade policy and domestic
distortions which are seen as key to the effective development and diversification o f the sector.
The following condition o f effectiveness was substantially met in December 2004, after three
extensions, when the President signed the law eliminating the taxes that provided protection to
domestic groundnut producers: "the Borrower has implemented the agreed action plan for the
edible oil sector reform regarding the elimination or reduction, as the case may be, of the
economic distortions in the areas of trade, domestic market and Jinancial sector policy, inter
alia, through the elimination of the TCIand Taxe SpkciJique on edible oils. ''

 18.     The Government first suspended the application of the TCI (Taxe Conjoncturelle
d'Importation) benefit to the edible oils through administrative action camed out at the level o f
the Director General o f Customs.      This action was then complemented by the passage, on
December 14, 2004 o f Law No. 2004-34, which involved the abrogation and replacement o f
article 360 o f the tax law (Code Ge`ne`ral des Impdts) with a revision that eliminates the
protective tax imposed on both processed and unprocessed edible oils. This law will go into
effect on December 31,2005, the closing date o f the PSAC. Signing the law also allowed for the
PRSC Ito go to the Board in December, after the Country Director indicated that the PRSC
could not be presented to the Board with PSAC effectiveness outstanding. There are no floating
tranche conditions related to the edible oil sector reform.


TaxReform
19.      The Government decision to proceed with a tax reform initiative arose out o f in-depth
diagnostic work undertaken in collaboration with FIAS. Investment in Senegal was being
deterred by excessively hightax rates, hrther complicated by a multitude o f taxes and user fees
and heavy administrative arrangements. The system was recognized to lack transparency and
encouragerent-seeking.

20.      The tax reform process commenced in earnest with the prior Trade Reform and
Competitiveness Credit (Cr. 3419) which assisted in the implementation o f reforms covering
VAT, tariffs and business taxation. The PSAC extends t h s reform drive hrther with a program
to reduce top rates and reduce a number o f taxes, such that the Marginal Effective Tax Rate
(METR) has decreased from 45 percent to 28 percent.           Additionally, the reform package
harmonizes the vocational training tax (Contribution Forfaitaire h la Charge de 1'Employeur -
CFCE) treatment o f national and foreign workers and allocates 30 percent o f proceeds to the
hnding of a matching grant facility beingestablished under the PPPproject (Private Investment
Promotion Project, Cr. 3762). The reform also includes the rationalization o f investment code
waivers granted inregardto the consumption tax and import duties to bringthese inline with the
WAEMU Common External Tariffandthe Value-Added Tax scheme.

21.      This tax reform program has been widely supported by both the Senegalese Government
and the private sector. The recent June 2005 meeting o f the Presidential Investors' Advisory
Council that comprises both local and international business members highlighted the progress


                                                 5

 Senegal has made in reducing the tax burden, both in terms o f the overall level o f taxation and
 the lack o f transparency that exists in the system. The President also committed, during the
 course o f the Council deliberations, to further reduce corporate tax to 25 percent. This will
 further reduce the METRto enterprises inSenegal.


 Postal ServicesReform
 22.     The objectives pursuedby the Government are stated in the Letter o f Postal Sector Policy
 of April 17, 2003 and include: (i)     improve overall performance through a progressive sector
 liberalization and increased private sector participation; (ii) modernize the legal and regulatory
 framework and strengthen sector regulation; (iii)   safeguard the right to basic communications for
 all citizens through a funding mechanism to support the cost o f universal postal services
 obligations; (iv) transform the historical postal operator into a modem and performing
 corporation through the definition and implementation o f a new corporate strategy; and
 (v) promote the sustainable development o f postal financial services inorder to improve access
 o f the population to basic financial and savings services, and channel these savings towards
 private investment funds.

 23.     The PSAC supports (i)    ongoing reforms aimed at introducingmore competition inpostal
 services, strengthening corporate govemance, and restructuring the postal corporation so as to
 improve its sustainability and its service quality; and (ii)
                                                            implementation o f the requiredfinancial
restructuringo f the operator.

24.      After a period o f sustained progress, the postal services reform was slowed considerably
inlate2004. Efforts arenow beingmadebythe Government to getthe reformback ontrack and
regain lost momentum. It i s expected that two o f the tranche conditions will be completed over
the coming months, namely: (i)     the effective transfer ofresponsibility for the regulation ofpostal
services from SNP (Socie'te' Nationale de La Poste) to ART (Agence de re'gulation des
te'le'communications); and (ii)  performance-based agreement entered into between the Borrower
and SNP for the operation o fpostal services.

25.      The creation o f the postal financial subsidiary and the problems arising out o f staff
indebtedness towards the company remain the most challenging aspects o f the reform program.
Agreement has been reached, taking into account the conclusions o f the Financial Sector
Assessment report completed inlate 2004, to limit the initial round o f financial subsidiary reform
to the creation o f a hlly public independent entity with a view to privatization at a later stage.
The coming months will show whether the Government is able to complete this and hlfillthe
conditions for the release o f the postal services reform floating tranche.


Pension Reform
26.      The Government's pension reform strategy i s described in the sector policy statement
dated June 6, 2003. The first phase o f reforms involves a series o f parametric reforms and
changes to the way the Institution de Pre'voyance Retraite du Se'ndgal (PRES) scheme i s
managed, inparticular with regard to its investment policy and practices. The implementation o f
these policy changes requires a series o f concrete steps including improvements to the existing
information system, professional advice regardinginvestment policy, changes inaccounting rules


                                                   6

 and practices, as well as regular independent audits and training o f Board, members and staff.
 These, along with other activities required to successfully implement the policy changes, are
 beingsupported under the pensions sub-component o f the PIPP.

 27.     The secondphase o freform hastwo maincomponents. The first areainvolves redefining
 pension policy that currently treats civil servants and private sector workers differently. There
 are clear arguments for the integration o f the two existing formal schemes although this policy
 may be gradually applied. Integrationwould facilitate labor mobility, improve equity and would
 likelyreduce overall administrationcosts. The second areainvolvesthe future role ofthe private
 sector in overall pension provision. As in the case o f integration, the Government believes that
 systemic reforms must be constructed after the existing schemes are stabilized and credibility is
 restored.   A systemic reform would require careful preparation, especially with regard to
 institutional design.

 28.     The PSAC supports an ongoing and multi-phase reform process that would completely
restructure the existing pension system in Senegal. Specifically, the PSAC supports the shift to
 automatic indexation o f key parameters o f the pension scheme and an increase inthe retirement
 age as immediate measures applied to the P R E S scheme. This would be followed by the
resolution o f outstanding arrears in a way that restores pension rights to a significant group of
workers and clarifies the status o f the P R E S balance sheet.

29.      Several aspects o f the pension reform are proceeding. A Supervision Commission was
appointed in November 2004 and commenced full operations in June 2005. This i s a key step in
addressing the governance and management issues that are central to the reform agenda. The
Government has also transferred approximately CFCA 8 billion in anears due to PRES who
have advised that they are now making payments against these funds to pension recipients.
Several key "tranche condition" studies are launched (selection o f consultant done in July with
start-up o f work inAugust, 2005) includingon the consolidation o f existing pension schemes and
on structural reform to introduce private pension funds. The investment policy report, the
commission is working on a draft document transmitted by the new PRES Director, the report
will be finalized and validated in October 2005.            These will provide the analysis and
recommendations critical to the next stage o f the government's institutional reform o f the sector
and subsequentpolicy decisions.


                IV.     PROGRESSAGAINST TRANCHE RELEASE CRITERIA


30.     The first tranche was disbursed upon effectiveness. The conditions o f release o f the
floating tranche listed inPart A o f Schedule 2 o f the Development Credit Agreement betweenthe
Borrower and IDA related to the Tax Reform Plan state that the following conditions must be
fulfilled:


In accordance with thefiscal management plan referred to in paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 of the
Letter of Sector Policy dated April 2003, the Borrower shall havefurnished to the Association
the evidence, inform and substance satisfactory to theAssociation, of thefollowing:




                                                   7

 1.     reduction in the METRfor the industry to 28percent or less - This conditionhas
        been met.

Inconformitywith the recommendation ofthe "Etude de l `OpportunitkdeBaisse du Taux
Effectifd 'Imposition (June 2003), aFiscalMeasure Action Planwas prepared which detailed
the series o fmeasures that were requiredto reduce the METR.

This was achieved by the adoption o fLaw No. 2004-12 o fFebruary 12,2004 which modified
therelevant sections o fthe General Tax Code. The WorldBank hasreceived, as part o fthe
 applicationpackage for this floating tranche release, copies o f the original FiscalMeasure
Action Plan, plus a copy o f the new Tax Code with a summarytable o f the tax changes
effected. This has been reviewedby Bank experts who have confirmedthat the METR rate
has been reduced to less than 28 percent.

2.      elimination of specific exceptional tax regimes, including inconsistencies between the
        WAEMUCommon External Tariff and the VAT, but excluding exceptional tax
        regimesfor certain exporters, the extractive industry sector and the tourism sector, as
        agreed with the Association - This conditionhasbeenmet.

The elimination o f the specific, exceptional tax regimeswas achieved with the adoption o f
the new InvestmentCode (Law 2004-06, February 6,2004), together with the new Mining
Code (Law 2003-36, November 26,2003). The streamlining o f consumptiontax and import
dutywaivers inthe Investment Code has achieved the desired consistency betweenthe
Investment Code and the WAEMU CommonExternal Tariff and V A T codes. Also o f
particular note within the MiningCode i s the elimination o f any discretionary waiving o f the
annual mineral tax (see article 57).

The World Bank has received, as part o f the applicationpackage for this floating tranche
release, copies o f the new Miningand InvestmentCodes.

3.      harmonization of the rate of the CFCE to 3percent and utilization of at least one-
        third of revenues collected in respect thereof tofund a matching grantfacility - This
        condition hasbeensubstantiallymet.

UnderLaw 2004-34, adopted onDecember 14,2004, the differential vocational training tax
CFCE rate (3 percent for national employees and 6 percent for foreign employees) was
harmonizedto 3 percent. This was achieved by abrogating the existing article 198 o f the
General Tax Code. Additionally the Government, inits letter o f April 27, 2005, has
committed to allocate one third o f the value o f the CFCE revenues to the matching grant
scheme beingdeveloped under the associatedPIPPproject.

The World Bank has received, as part o f the application for this floating tranche release,
relevant correspondence confirming actions taken under Law No. 2004-34 and a letter from
the Minister o f Budget confirming commitments and actions to be taken in fulfillment o f the
allocation to the matching grant scheme. The Government has further confirmed that

    changes are beingmade to the draft Budget Law for FY06 to give effect to this allocation of
    CFCE user charges. This proposed draft budget law will have beenprepared and available by
    November 2005. Based on these assurances, the Bank i s satisfied that at least one third o f the
    revenues collected from the CFCE will be utilized to fund the matching grant facility.


31.    The Borrower has therefore met the three conditions for the release o f the Tax Reform
Plan floating tranche as specified inPart A o f Schedule 2 o fthe Development Credit Agreement.


                                         V.     CONCLUSION
32.    In view of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the Tax
Reform Plan supported by the Credit, and incompliance with the specific conditions o f release as
described in paragraphs 1-3 o f Section IV above, the Association has informed the Borrower o f
the availability of the tax reform floating tranche inthe amount o f SDR 4.7 million.




                                                  9

