                             Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

                                                                                              Report No: AC98
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/02/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: SENEGAL                                            Project ID: P080013
Project: Private Sector Adjustment Credit                   Task Team Leader: Iradj A. Alikhani
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 7, 2003                    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 17, 2003                                IDA Amount ($m): 55.00
Managing Unit: AFTPS                                        Sector: Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and
Lending Instrument: Sector Adjustment Loan (SAD)            contractual savings (40%); Agro-industry (30%);
Status: Lending                                             Other industry (30%)
                                                            Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and
                                                            privatization (P); Other economic management (S);
                                                            Regulation and competition policy (S)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The objective of the Credit is to support the Government of Senegal in the implementation of
subsector reforms aimed at improving the investment climate and accelerating private sector
growth by: (i) supporting the implementation of a private enterprise tax regime that stimulates
investments through a level playing field and lower taxes, and allocates user fees for the private
sector promotion purposes for which they are levied; (ii) restructuring the edible oil sector by
privatizing the public monopoly ground nut processor, and by eliminating or reducing policy
distortions associated with non-tariff barriers and other domestic protection mechanisms, and
public interventions in the financial sector; (iii) reforming postal services by introducing greater
competition in the sector, restructuring the postal enterprise so as to enhance its sustainability and
to create an autonomous financial subsidiary that would provide savings, and payment and
transfer services; and (iv) bringing changing to the pension system to make it financially
sustainable and to improve its corporate governance.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$55 million equivalent. The amount is considered
adequate to support the momentum of private sector reforms in Senegal. The credit will be on
standard IDA terms. The proposed loan in the form of an adjustment credit will be disbursed in
one fixed tranche of US$11.4 million (the refinancing of a PPF of US$500.000 is included in the
overall Credit amount) and four floating tranches, supporting tax, edible oil, postal and pension
reform. The first floating tranche will be of US$8.2 million equivalent, the other three tranches
will be of US$10.9 million each. The proposed structure is designed for simplicity and to allow
Senegal the flexibility of accelerating the reform program in selected areas, thus giving the
Government the possibility to disburse the Credit more quickly, if needed.

1.      First Tranche ­ The Government has conducted a series of actions that constitute the basis for
the disbursement of the first tranche of US$11.4 million, to which any undisbursed amount of the PPF
will be reallocated in due course. These actions are the following:

                                                       2
                                                                                                        ISDS


·       Taxation: a detailed action plan and associated timetable acceptable to IDA for the reduction of
the METR and other tax reforms has been submitted.

·       Edible Oil: (a) divestiture ­ privatization advisers hired and a preliminary report acceptable to
IDA has been submitted; and (b) elimination of distortions ­ a detailed action plan and associated
timetable acceptable to IDA for the elimination and/or reduction of distortions associated with trade,
domestic and financial sector policy approved by government has been submitted.

·       Postal Services: (a) improved legal and regulatory environment ­ the draft postal law acceptable
to IDA has been transmitted to parliament (or alternatively has been approved by Government); and (b)
financial restructuring ­ Government has presented a recapitalization scheme acceptable to IDA and has
formally agreed to cancel cross-debts of about 12 CFAF billion.

·       Pensions: (a) improved financial sustainability - parametric reforms in a manner acceptable to
IDA implemented through the introduction of automatic indexation of benefit parameters and ceiling for
contributions for IPRES and FNR; and (b) financial restructuring - satisfactory plan produced to resolve
arrears issue and to credit affected workers accounts.

2.      Floating Tranches ­ The general conditions before release of the floating tranches relates to
maintaining satisfactory macroeconomic performance and satisfactory implementation of the private
sector strategy. More specifically, the Government: (i) would provide evidence that the macroeconomic
framework is consistent with the objective of macroeconomic stability, as per indicators agreed with
IDA; and (ii) progress has been achieved in carrying out the program outlined in its letters of sector
policy. Specific conditions for each tranche are as follows:

Tax Reform:

·       Even playing field and incentives ­ (a) METR for industry reduced to a maximum of 25 percent;
and (b) specific tax regimes including inconsistencies with the CET and VAT eliminated, save for
limited exceptions exporters and extractive sectors, which may be subject to a separate framework, and
the tourism sector, where faster depreciation of hotels will be allowed.

·       Utilization of user fees ­ CFCE reduced to 3 percent and at least one percentage point allocated
to each the matching-grant and the vocational training scheme.

Edible Oil Sector Reform:

·       Divestiture - SONACOS divested in a manner satisfactory to IDA, including introduction of
adequate competition.

·       Sector policy reform ­ distortions in the areas of trade, domestic and financial policies in a
manner acceptable to IDA and consistent with the agreed action plan.

Postal Services Reform:

·       Improved legal and regulatory environment ­ (a) adoption of the new postal law; and (b)
effective transfer of responsibilities for postal regulation to ART.

·       Implementation of corporate strategy ­ (a) Performance contract acceptable to IDA signed

                                                        3
                                                                                                        ISDS



between the State and La Poste; and (b) separate financial subsidiary established.


Pension Reform:

·        Corporate governance ­ (a) New Commission including independent members with relevant
professional background created with mandate to oversee social security system reforms and supervise
governance; and (b) new IPRES investment policy and processes based on international best practice
adopted.

·        Rationalization of schemes - Proposal for consolidation and/or integration of existing programs
developed and implemented.

·        Private provision - New private pension policy developed and implemented.

·        Financial restructuring - Arrears to IPRES paid by Government resulting in the restitution of
affected workers' rights



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
This adjustment operation is a reform support credit. Most of the project activities will take place in
Dakar, Capital of Senegal.


B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments: The objective of the project is to help create the conditions to stimulate a sustained
increase in private investment in Senegal through improved investment climate, greater private
participation in economic activities, and sector reform. In order to do this, the credit address policy
constraints, and implementing sector reforms. There are no environmental or safeguard issues.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                           Yes    No     TBD

    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                   Yes    No     TBD

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                    Yes    No     TBD

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      Yes    No     TBD

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                  Yes    No     TBD

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                   Yes    No     TBD

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                          Yes    No     TBD

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                              Yes    No     TBD

    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                   Yes    No     TBD

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                        Yes    No     TBD

                                                      4
                                                                                                        ISDS



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A


II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
There will be several methods to ensure stakeholder participation. It will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance to ensure that stakeholder participation is consistent. During preparation, and then
execution, regular meetings will be held with the donor community to avoid duplication of support and to
seek their views on the economic and financial environment in Senegal.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
          in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
          similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
          safeguard issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

                                                    5
                                                                                                    ISDS



Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                          Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                             Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                    Iradj A. Alikhani                                  April 16, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:    Serigne Omar Fye/Person/World Bank                 April 16, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:


Approved by:                         Name                                               Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                                       April 16, 2003
Sector Manager/Director              Demba Ba                                           April 16, 2003

