                                   Initial Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                 Report No: AB609

Project Name                     SENEGAL - Private Sector Adjustment Credit
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Non-compulsory pensions; insurance and contractual savings (40%);
                                 Agro-industry (30%); Other industry (30%)
Theme                            State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Other economic
                                 management (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)
Project                          P080013
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Implementing Agency(ies)         MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
                                 Address:
                                 Contact Person: Mr. Aliou Faye
                                 Tel: 221 823 3427         Fax:        Email: fayealiou@hotmail.com
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                January 12, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date              May 7, 2003
Bank Approval Date               March 25, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
Senegal has sustained macroeconomic stabilization since 1994 and achieved a steady 5 percent
GDP growth per annum for the past five years. This good performance is progressively being
reflected through progress towards achieving sustainable development and poverty reduction
targets embodied in the Millennium Development Goal.               Earlier reforms that started in the
mid-1980's were mostly reversed or undermined by early 1990's, as vested interests fought to
retain their privileged status in areas ranging from corporate governance, to patron-client relations
in the civil service, to elite biases in the education and health systems, to social protection that
was financially unsustainable for even the relatively small formal sector of the economy. It is the
intention of the Government's reform program to re-channel the energies of these often
competent and energetic elites from rent seeking and defense of the status quo, to job-creating
generation of wealth.

In the late 1990s, the Government decided to prepare a private sector development strategy. To
this end, with the support of the World Bank and other donors, a consultation process was
launched. And subsequently, a draft strategy was presented to and endorsed by all stakeholders.
In parallel, detailed diagnostic work was undertaken with the technical collaboration of the World
Bank. The resulting output included studies of the investment climate, infrastructure reform,
pensions, trade policy and macroeconomic and poverty issues.                 Reflecting this work, the
Government's private sector development strategy is to help achieve and sustain steady private
sector-based GDP growth of about 8 percent p.a., resulting in increased formal sector
employment, which for the past 5 years has remained stagnant, at around 200,000 jobs.

                                                  2
                                                                                                 PID


2. Objectives
The proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) is an integral part of the Bank Strategy
approved by the board in April 2003. The objective of the Credit is to support the Government of
Senegal in the implementation of sub-sector reforms aimed at improving the investment climate
and accelerating private sector growth and employment. The private sector adjustment program
thus supports the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy, through improving the investment
climate and implementing key sector reform by: (i) supporting the implementation of a private
enterprise tax regime that stimulates investments through a level playing field and lower taxes, and
allocates user fees for the private sector promotion purposes for which they are levied; (ii)
restructuring the edible oil sector by eliminating or reducing policy distortions associated with
non-tariff barriers and other domestic protection mechanisms; (iii) reforming postal services by
introducing greater competition in the sector, restructuring the postal enterprise so as to enhance
its sustainability and to create an autonomous financial subsidiary that would provide savings, and
payment and transfer services; and (iv) bringing changes to the pension system to make it
financially sustainable and to improve its corporate governance. The last three reforms entail
substantial financial restructuring, involving clearance of arrears, that would need to be financed
by the public budget. In the same vein, the proposed tax reforms, while revenue neutral or
enhancing in the medium-term, may entail short-term revenue shortfalls. The proposed Credit
thus aims to provide budget support to ensure that social and poverty alleviation programs are not
disrupted.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The PSAC would continue the Bank's support for meeting the objectives of the private sector
development strategy through the implementation of key policy measures in the areas of tax,
edible oil, postal services and pension system reforms. These areas are closely linked with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, as well as Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.

4. Description
The proposed Credit includes actions in four priority reform areas: (i) taxation; (ii) edible oil
sector; (iii) postal services; and (iv) pensions. The first tranche (US$10 million) of the proposed
four-tranche operation would help initiate these reforms. The other three floating tranches would
support specific reforms in each of the above areas. The first floating tranche (pensions) will be
of US$14 million equivalent, the second floating tranche (postal) will be of US$12 million
equivalent, and the last tranche will be of US$9 million equivalent. The proposed structure is
designed for simplicity and to allow Senegal the flexibility of accelerating the reform program in
selected areas, thus giving the Government the possibility to disburse the Credit more quickly, if
needed.

First Fixed Tranche ­ The first tranche would be released after Government has conducted a
series of actions that constitute the basis for the disbursement upon effectiveness including: (a)
Taxation: a detailed action plan and associated timetable acceptable to IDA for the reduction of
the METR and other tax reforms has been submitted; (b) Edible Oil: distortions in the areas of
trade, domestic and financial policies have been reduced and/or eliminated in a manner acceptable
to IDA and consistent with the agreed action plan; (c) Postal Services: (i) the draft postal law
acceptable to IDA has been prepared; and (ii) Government has presented a recapitalization
scheme acceptable to IDA and has formally agreed to cancel cross-debts; and (d) Pensions: (i)

                                                   3
                                                                                                 PID


improved financial sustainability - parametric reforms in a manner acceptable to IDA implemented
through the introduction of automatic indexation of benefit parameters and ceiling for
contributions for IPRES and FNR; and (ii) financial restructuring - satisfactory plan produced to
resolve arrears issue and to credit affected workers accounts.

Floating Tranches ­ The general conditions before release of the floating tranches relates to
maintaining satisfactory macroeconomic performance and satisfactory implementation of the
private sector strategy In addition Government would demonstrate that progress has been
achieved in carrying out the program outlined in its letters of sector policy. Specific conditions
for each tranche are as follows: (a) Tax Reform: METR for industry has been reduced to a
maximum of 28 percent in the absence of any tax exemption regimes; specific tax regimes
including inconsistencies with the CET and VAT are eliminated, except for limited exceptions
exporters and extractive sectors, which may be subject to a separate framework, and the tourism
sector, where faster depreciation of investments in hotels will be allowed; and utilization of user
fees (CFCE) are reduced to 3 percent and at least one percentage point allocated to the existing
matching-grant scheme; (b) Postal Services Reform: Legal and regulatory environment has
improved with the adoption of the new postal law; and the effective transfer of responsibilities for
postal regulation to ART; relationship between La Post and its shareholder, Government has been
clarified and a performance contract acceptable to IDA has been signed between the State and La
Poste; and the postal financial services subsidiary has been created and the postal financial
services of La Poste are separated from the mother company with the opening balance sheet is
prepared after recapitalization of La Poste; (c) Pension Reform: A new Commission including
independent members with relevant professional background has been created with the mandate
to oversee social security system reforms and supervise governance; a new IPRES investment
policy and processes based on international best practice adopted; a proposal for consolidation
and/or integration of existing programs developed and implemented; a new private pension policy
has been developed and implemented; and the arrears to IPRES have been paid by Government
resulting in the restitution of affected workers' rights.


5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($0.00)
IDA ($45.00)
Total Project Cost: $90.00

6. Implementation
Implementation Period: 21 months, April 2004-December 2005.

Executing Agency: Ministry of Economy and Finance

                                                   4
                                                                                                 PID


7. Sustainability
The proposed PSAC would provide the required resources to help implement the financial
restructuring of the pensions system, the edible oil sector and the post office. The Private
Promotion Investment Project, provides financial, technical assistance, and associated institutional
and policy support for a well-defined, time-bound process involving permanent improvements in
the policy and institutional environment, and stimulating private investment. The irreversible
nature of these actions significantly enhances the likelihood that once implemented they will be
largely sustained. The participatory approach and the public information campaign programmed
under various activities further enhances ownership and sustainability. Together, these project
will help ensure the sustainability of the reforms.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
There are three main lessons from SAL IV and overall adjustment implementation in Senegal.
First, the importance of dynamic leadership of policy reform should not be understated. Second,
the complex nature of macroeconomic adjustment operations placed substantial burdens on
Senegal's administrative capacity, and consequently, there was a recognized need to shift from
fewer and more complex operations to a series of specific and well-focused operations and
conditionalities.   Third, the implementation of the reforms had some serious sequencing
shortcomings because of the difficulty in implementing key measures. These lessons explain the
shift to sectoral adjustment operations beginning with the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Financial SECAL) in December 1989. The Financial SECAL was a success, leading to a more
active role by BCEAO in bank supervision and monitoring, a substantial reform of credit policies,
the liquidation of seven banks and the restructuring of two others.         The Transport Sector
Adjustment Loan (Transport SECAL, 1991), the Private Sector Competitiveness and Adjustment
Credit (PASCO, 1995) and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AgSECAL, 1995) were
also rated satisfactory.

Investment Climate ­ Thanks to the participation of FIAS in the design and implementation of
tax and administrative barrier reforms, Africa-wide and international experience is fully reflected
in the project. One lesson learnt is that initially promising reforms do not necessarily lead to
sufficient improvements in the investment climate.         In view of this, reforms need to be
underpinned by surveys and quantitative methods, and monitored vis a vis national as well as
international benchmark. The other lesson learnt is that the reform process is iterative, and
requires strong stakeholder participation and ownership.

Pension Reform ­ The conceptual ground for the pension reform in Senegal has been laid
through economic and sector work initiated in 2000. Bank lending in support of such reforms is
usually through fairly substantial adjustment operations (Russian Federation, Ln. 4234, and
Bulgaria, Ln. 4081). This approach facilitates the financing necessary financial restructuring, but
suffers from the fact that the time frame for adjustment operations is shorter than the one needed
to ensure sustainability through appropriate systems and capacity building.        There are also
examples of pension reform being supported under investment operations, for instance in Mali
(Cr. 3394) and at the municipal level in Brazil (Ln. 4369 and Ln. 4537). Such approaches are
partial as they tend to respond to capacity building needs, without tackling significant policy
reforms and required financial restructuring. The PIPP address the former area while the PSAC

                                                    5
                                                                                                     PID


focus on the latter two.

Postal Reform ­ A comprehensive review of the postal sector worldwide shows that mere
corporate transformation in the postal sector has not led to performance improvements. A
comprehensive reform covering the entire sector stands as the best vehicle to provide a conducive
environment for change and sector development. In the postal sector, three important components
of reform relate to the definition of (i) a clear sector policy by which the Government identifies its
objectives for the postal sector, (ii) the definition of an adequate status, organization and a viable
financial structure for the historical postal operator, and (iii) the definition of a corporate strategy
and an adequate capacity building plan, including the diversification from the core activities to
leverage the economies of scale and scope embedded in the postal network.                 This project
addresses all three of these needs.

Edible Oil Sector Reform ­ The reform of the groundnut sector has been a priority in Senegal
since well before 1995. Since then, three IDA Credits have supported this reform with limited
success. Lessons learnt indicate that when the projects (including the recently completed private
sector project, Cr. 2759) that focused mainly on divestiture failed because there were too many
uncertainties regarding future sector policies, including trade policy and financing regimes. While
some reforms were implemented under sector adjustment Credits (Cr. 2738 and Cr. 2681) these
were limited by the short timeline of the operations: subsequent reforms were not implemented.
The main lessons learnt include the importance of ensuring the buy-in of stakeholders, tackling
sector policies in a manner that ensures transparency and maximize competition potential, and
providing a safety net and/or alternative activities to affected farmers. The project and the
proposed complementary PSAC, together with the ongoing rural development project (Cr. 3219),
build on this past experience as well as parallel similar efforts underway in Mali, Benin and, with
limited success, Uganda in the area of cotton reform.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
     Issues    :




10. List of factual technical documents:
    Task Manager
     Iradj Alikhani
     Telephone: 202-458-0345
      Fax: (202)522-1198

11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Iradj A. Alikhani
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433

                                                  6
                                                                                                 PID


     Telephone:
      Fax:

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

