                                                 Documentof
                                               The World Bank
                                            For Official Use Only



                                                                                        ReportNo. 25943




                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                         PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                                    FORA

                       PROPOSEDPRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                               INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR30.2MILLION

                                    (US$45 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                      TO

                                      THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL




                                              February20,2004




Private Sector DevelopmentUnit
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                              -11-



                                 CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

          CurrencyUnit                 =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
          US$l                         =    CFAF 515 (asofJanuary31,2003)


                               GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR

                                    January 1-December31

                           ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS


AGOA           African Growth OpportunityAct
ART           Agence de Regulationdes Te'le'coms,The telecomRegulator
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEM            CountryEconomicMemorandum
CET            CommonExternalTariff
CFAA           CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
CPAR           CountryProcurementAssessmentReview
EU             EuropeanUnion
FIAS           FinancialInvestmentAdvisory Services
FNR           FondsNationale de Retraite,pensionfundfor civil servants
HIPC          HighlyIndebetedCountryInitaitive
IMF           InternationalMonetaryFund
P R E S       Institution de Pre'voyanceRetraite duSkidgal,pensionfundfor privateemployees
METR           MarginalEffective Tax Rate
PPP            PrivateInvestmentPromotionProject
PRGF          PovertyReductionand GrowthFacility
PIC           PresidentialInvestorCouncil
PER           PublicExpenditureReview
PRSP          PovertyReductionStrategy Paper
PSAC          Private Sector Adjustment Credit
SENELEC       The electricalpublic utility
SME            Small andMediumEnterprise
SONACOS       The public groundnutprocessor
SONAGRAINES   The liquidatedpublic seed distribution company
USAID         UnitedStates Agencyfor InternationalDevelopment
us0           UniversalService Obligation
WAEMU         West Africa Economic andMonetaryUnion


          Vice President                   : Callisto Madavo
          CountryDirector                  : JohnMcIntire
          Sector Manager                   : DembaBa
          Task Team Leader                 : Iradj Alikhani

                                                                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                           -  ...
                                                                                              111  -


                REPUBLICOF SENEGAL: PRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENTCREDIT

                                                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                        Page No.

   I. THE COUNTRY CONTEXT.....                                                                                              ................................................................  1
   11. THE PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM..........................................................
             A. Private Sector Development Strategy.......................................................................
             B. Tax Reform..............................................................................................................
             C. Edible Oil Sector Reform........................................................................................................................ 6
             D.PostalServicesReform                                                                  .....................................................................................   8
             E. PensionReform ....................................                                   ................               ....................................................... 12
   111. THE PROPOSEDCREDIT..............................................................................................................                                                     16
             A. Objectives ............................................................................................................................................. 16
             B. Linkto the CAS, Poverty Implications and Social Impact....................................................................                                                   16
             C. Credit Features andImplementation......................................................................................................                                      18
             D. Coordination with IMF andDonors.........................................................................................
   IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS..........................................................................................................................
             Benefits.........................................................................................................................................
             Risks.............................                         ............................................................................................................        .23
             LessonsLearnt FromPast Bank Experience                                                      ...........                      .................................................. 24
             A. Past adjustment loans..............................                                       ................................................                                   24
             B. Other Lessons........................................................................................................................................ 25


   Tables

   Table 1: SenegalPost Office-Key Indicators .............................................................................................................                                  .9
   Table 2. Senegal: Extemal Financing Requirements,2001-06....................................................................................                                              22




   Aiiiiexes

   ANNEX A .......................................................................................................................................................
   ANNEX B.....................................................................................................................................................................              29

   ANNEX D .................................
   ANNEX C..................................................................................................................................................................... 32
                     ..................................................................................................................................................................      34
                                                                              ......................................            ............................................................ 35
                     ......................................................................................................             ;.....................................
   ANNEX G .................................................................................................................................................................... 47

   MAP 32252



This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                          -1v -
              Republicof Senegal: PrivateSector Adjustment Credit

                            Credit and ProgramSummary


Borrower:      Republicof Senegal

Amount:        SDR 30.2 million (equivalent to US$45 million)

Terms:          Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity

Program
Objectives:    The proposedPrivate Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) is an integral part o f
               the Bank Strategy set forth in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
               Senegal presented to the Board on April 17, 2003. The objective o f the
               Credit i s to support the Government o f Senegal in the implementation o f
               subsector reforms aimed at improving the investment climate and
               accelerating private sector growth and employment.           The private sector
               adjustment program thus supports the Government's Poverty Reduction
               Strategy, through improving the investment climate and implementing key
               sector reform by: (i)  supporting the implementationo f a private enterprise tax
               regime that stimulates investments through a level playing field and lower
               taxes, and allocates user fees for the private sector promotion purposes for
               which they are levied; (ii) restructuring the edible oil sector by improving the
               competitive environment in which it operates, through the elimination or
               reduction o f policy distortions associated with non-tariff bamers and other
               domestic protection mechanisms, and o f public interventions; (iii)   reforming
               postal services by introducing greater competition inthe sector, restructuring
               the postal enterprise so as to enhance its sustainability and to create an
               autonomous financial subsidiary that would provide savings, and payment
               and transfer services; and (iv) bringing changes to the pension system to
               makeit financially sustainable andto improve its corporate governance. The
               last two reforms entail substantial financial restructuring, involving clearance
               o f arrears, that would need to be financed by the public budget. Inthe same
               vein, the proposed tax reforms, while revenue neutral or enhancing in the
               medium-term, may entail short-term revenue shortfalls. The proposed Credit
               aims to provide budget resources through counterpart funds generated by
               balance o f payment support it provides, and thus help ensure that social and
               poverty alleviation programs are not disrupted.

Credit
Description:   The proposed Credit includes actions in four priority reform areas: (i)
               taxation; (ii) oil sector; (iii) services; and (iv) pensions. The
                              edible                  postal
               first tranche o f the proposed four-tranche operation would help initiate these

                                       - v -

            reforms. The other three floating tranches would support specific reforms in
            each o f the above areas, except in the edible oil sector that will be fully
            covered by the first tranche. A policy matrix spelling out the objectives of
            the proposed credit, measures already taken, measures to be taken under the
            credit, and proposed timing i s provided as Annex F.

Benefits    The private sector policy and institutional reforms will lead to permanent
            improvements in the investment climate.         They will also stem the fiscal
            losses and contingent liabilities related to postal services and the pension
            system, through one time financial restructuring and sector reforms aimed at
            ensuring financial sustainability.   The poor will derive direct and indirect
            benefits from the reforms through employment and revenue generation
            opportunities, the elimination o f regressive taxes, and improved access to
            postal and financial services. Formal sector workers will also benefit from
            improved social protection. Expected induced effects o f the reforms involve
            the mobilization o f term resources by the pension scheme and the financial
            services o f the post office.       Once recycled through sound financial
            intermediaries, these would help finance viable private investments,
            including SMEs. Finally, by strengthening fiscal balances and contributing
            towards a lasting improvement in the investment climate, the PSAC would
            help mitigate certain risks identi@ inthe CAS and increase the probability o f
            achieving the highcase scenario triggers.

Risks       The proposed PSAC includes an ambitious reform agenda that may be
            resisted by vested interests and may be undermined by political concerns.
            The first risk is therefore imperfect implementation o f the reforms, which
            would undermine their sustainability.      This risks have been mitigated a
            number ways. First, for the past three years a series of diagnostics studies
            have been undertaken that have helped strengthen the analytical basis o f the
            reforms. Second, a broad participatory process has been followed to ensure
            stakeholder buy-in, including at the highest level o f policy-making. Finally,
            the specific conditions are, to the extent possible, focused on outcomes and
            selective, covering the most critical aspects o f the reforms. The relative
            simplicity and focus of the project design is thus strength. The second risk is
            institutional in nature. To avoid the risk o f imperfect implementation due to
            lack o f capacity, insufficient analysis and absence o f consensus, the parallel
            PPP operation provides considerable assistance in the design and
            implementation o f the reforms. The third category o f risk is specific to the
            four areas o f reform within the program.         One such risk concerns the
            privatisation o f the groundnut operator, which is very advanced and i s not
            expected to materialize. Other risks are considered manageable and are
            mitigated through a combination o f upfront actions being taken,
            implementation support provided by IDA and consensus building in favour
            o f the reforms.

                                           - v1-


Estimated
Disbursements    The credit will be disbursedinfour tranches.

Schedule of                                                   US$million
Disbursements    Category                          FY04        FY05      FY06


      Annual Cumulative                            8.5         25.O      45.0




FinancingPlan    The tentative financing plan i s as follows: (i) US$45 million; and (ii)
                                                               IDA,
                 Government U S$30.0 million.


                               IDA PROGRAMDOCUMENT
          ONA PROPOSEDPRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                           TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL



                               I.THECOUNTRYCONTEXT

1. Since the devaluation o f the CFAF in 1994, Senegal's GDP has been growing at 5
percent per annum, accelerating to 6.5 percent in 2003, resulting in GDP per capita
growth o f over 2 percent during this period. This was in sharp contrast to the decades
since independence when GDP per capita had, on average, actually been falling.
Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, has averagedjust over 2 percent over
the last four years. Fiscal deficit, excluding grants, was only 2 percent o f GDP in 2002.
The current account deficit, excluding grants, has been inthe range o f 6.5 percent o f GDP
over the past three years, sustained by donor assistance, including funds under IMF's
PRGF, the World Bank's Trade Reform and Competitiveness Credit and debt reliefunder
the HIPC initiative. As detailed below (para. 7) project debt service ratios now appear
sustainable. Reforms in areas such as trade, the financial sector, ownership o f public
enterprises, and telecommunications have been under implementation for some years and
seem to be gaining momentum. Progress in the social areas, while somewhat halting in
the past, promises to pick up speed, assisted by the Government's Poverty Reduction
Strategy. The PRSP was sent to the Bank and the FundinMay 2002. The Bank's Board,
inits discussion of the Joint Staff Assessment on December 23, 2002 concluded that the
PRSP was an adequate basis for concessional lendingfrom IDA.

2. However, this picture o f a stable, low inflation, growing economy, poised to
substantially reduce poverty, could be deceptive for a number o f reasons. Analysis
conducted for the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) for Senegal, issued in 2003,
shows that despite strong GDP growth, the response o f exports to the devaluationhas been
lackluster, sustainability o f commodity exports such as fish and groundnuts is fragile, long-
term trend inmanufacturingproductivity (both labor and total factor productivity) has been
one o f stagnation and even decline, and surveys o f the investment climate conducted by the
Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) suggest that a series o f important obstacles
need to be removed before private investment will take off. Since 1994, growth o f GDP
seems to have been driven mostlybyinternal demand, recovering from stagnation preceding
the devaluation, rather thanbeing based on external competitiveness stemmingfrom growth
inproductivity, amuchmorefavorable exchangerateandanimprovedinvestment climate.

3. One view would be that the full effect o f the reforms has not yet been felt. This may
well be true and recent surveys indicate that incidence o f poverty has declinedby about 10
percent over the past decade. Still, over 50 percent o f the population remains poor and the
history o f Senegal's political economy does not leave muchroom for complacency. Earlier
reforms, that started in the mid-l980's, were mostly reversed or undermined by early
1990's.   Powerfbl vested interests thus fought to retain their privileged status in areas

                                             - 2 -


ranging from corporate governance, to patron-client relations in the civil service, to elite
biases in the education and health systems, to social protection that was financially
unsustainable for even the relatively small formal sector o f the economy. It i s the intention
o f the Government's reform program to re-channel the energies o f these often competent
and energetic elites from rent seeking and defense of the status quo, to job-creating
generation o fwealth.

4. Backsliding in the reform program would likely have two negative macroeconomic
outcomes. First, the recent growth trend would weaken and GDP growth rate could again
have trouble keeping up with the rate o f growth o f population. It would be virtually
impossible to reduce poverty and improve the lives o f the majority o f Senegalese in such a
case. Second, it would be much harder to sustain macroeconomic stability. Tax revenues
would be down due to slower growth. SENELEC, the public power company, may continue
to perform poorly and require further subsidies. Contingent liabilities o fthe pension system
could snowball. As donors realizedthat the reforms are stalling, foreign assistancewould be
reduced. Senegal's authorities would have to choose between higher inflation andausterity.

5. Finally, the external environment i s currently unfavorable to Senegal.         The world
economy has slowed down considerably inthe last two years and the near-term trends are
highly uncertain. This is putting a damper on both the volumes and prices o f Senegal's
exports. Extreme volatility o f oil prices inthe recent period has not been helpful. Tourism,
one o f the few promising avenues for job creating export growth for Senegal, i s having
trouble recovering from the 9/11 shock. Finally, with the CFAF being tied to the euro, the
30 percent weakening o f the dollar vis-a-vis the euro over the last two years has not helped
Senegal's competitive position.

6. Debt should not be a problem inthe future if a strong reform program is pursued. The
net present value o f debt-to-export anddebt-to-revenue ratios (169 percent and 263 percent,
respectively, in 2002), two years after the HIPC decision point, were still above
sustainability thresholds o f 150 percent and 250 percent, respectively (CAS, March 2003,
Annex 16). However, exports, output and revenue are expected to recover this year and
next, bringing the various ratios back into sustainable range. Debt service to export ratio,
after a spike in obligations on non-Paris Club debt in 2004, should be back below 10
percent by 2005 and, therefore, manageable.

7. Insum, Senegal's reformers face an array o f obstacles. They have accomplished much,
but the road to rapid, sustained, poverty-reducing growth is still long. The reformers will
need unambiguous political support and considerable human and financial resources to
carry their task to a successful conclusion. IDA'SCountry Assistance Strategy is designed,
in partnership with the Government and other donors, to help Senegal's authorities to
succeed in their reform efforts. This Credit, as well as its companion Private Investment
Promotion Project (PIPP, Cr. 3762, approved on May 20,2003) are crucial pillars o fDA's
overall support strategy.

                                              - 3 -


               11. THE PRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENT PROGRAM

A. Private Sector Development Strategy

8. The private sector development program has benefited from strong analytical and
strategic underpinning. In the late 199Os, the Government decided to prepare a private
sector development strategy.      To this end, with the support o f the World Bank and other
donors, a consultation process was launched. Inmid-1999, a draft strategy was presentedto
and endorsed by all stakeholders. Inparallel, detailed diagnostic work was undertaken with
the technical collaboration o f the World Bank. The resultingoutput included three studies
o fthe investment climate (incollaborationwith FIAS), as well as studies and diagnostics o f
infrastructure reform (Country Framework Report), pensions, trade policy (Integrated
Framework), tourism, the financial sector (Financial Sector Assessment Paper, FSAP), the
postal sector, and macroeconomic and poverty issues (Country Economic Memorandum).
Following extensive public consultations driven in large part by these studies, the
Government has elaborated a detailed reform program in support o f its private sector-led
development strategy. In this context, Senegal i s embarking on major and innovative
reforms aimed at enhancing its investment climate and improving the viability o f pensions,
which may become anexample for the rest o fWest-Aka.

9. Reflecting recent work, the Govemment's private sector development strategy is
detailed in a sector policy letter submitted to the World Bank on April 3, 2003 (see Annex
E). The overall objective o f this strategy is to help achieve and sustain steady private
sector-based GDP growth o f about 8 percent per annum (pa.), resulting inincreased formal
sector employment, which for the past 5 years has remained stagnant, at around 200,000
jobs. The strategy envisages that this economic growth would be sustained by appropriate
policies and development o f certain sectors, such as: (a) construction; (b) extractive
industries, petroleum, gold, iron ore etc.; (c) tourism; (d) export-oriented manufacturing,
especially garments, in part stimulated by AGOA, (e) trade services sectors, in particular
based on Senegal (especially the Dakar region) becoming a Gateway to West-Africa; (f)
information technology and related value-added services; and (g) SMEs, especially those
involved insubcontracting activities, services, agribusiness, andartisanal activities.

 10. The letter envisages the implementation o f the strategy will be based on the following
themes: (i)  improving the investment climate, notably through legal and judicial capacity
building, business environment enhancement, administrative barriers andtax reforms, trade
facilitation, infrastructure regulation, and a stronger private-public consultative process; (ii)
facilitating private participation and enhancing competitiveness, broadening private
participation in economic activities, and increasing the productivity o f the local private
sector; and (iii) stimulating sector investment, both domestic and foreign, and implementing
policy reforms in the areas o f pensions, the information technology sector, postal services,
tourism and culture, and the edible oil sector.

 11. The aforementioned PPP supports the implementation o f the strategy and its
sustainability by financing capacity building and investments.                  However, the

                                             - 4 -


implementation o f some o f the actions requires up ftont, difficult policy reforms as well as a
significant amount o f financial restructuring that burdens the Government's budget. The
PSAC supports the implementation o f key reforms in areas described below and helps
alleviate their fiscal burden, though counterpart funds generated from the balance o f
payment support providedunder the Credit.

B. Tax Reform

12. Theprevailingpolicyregime. The tax regime is an important element o f any country's
investment climate.       Investment in Senegal i s deterred by excessively high tax rates
combined with a multitude o f taxes and/or user fees, and complex administrative
arrangements, resulting inone o f the most intricate tax regimes inthe sub-region. The tax-
related administrative barriers and complexity o f the tax regime contribute to a daunting
system that lacks transparency and encourages rent seeking. Furthermore, the cost o f
administering small taxes may exceed what is transferred to the treasury, and user fees are .
often not utilized effectively or for the purpose they were intended. To encourage private
investments, the Government has, over time, implemented a number o f overlapping
exemption regimes detailed in the Marginal Effective Tax Rate (METR) study undertaken
by FIAS inDecember 2000. These regimes not only further complicate the tax system, but
also result inanuneven playing field for private firms.

13. The Government has recognized the importance o f reducing tax-induced economic and
administrative distortions. To this effect under the recently completed Trade Reform and
Competitiveness Credit (Cr. 3419), it has implemented a number o f important reforms in
the area o f tariffs, value-added tax (VAT) andbusiness taxation. Specifically, on January 1,
2000 Senegal implemented the last step o f the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU) Common External Tariff (CET) reform. This involved reducingtariff spreads,
merging two import taxes into one while lowering the rate on a third, reducing the number
applicable rates to four. Tariffs on goods traded within the region have been largely
eliminated. The new tariff code corresponds to international best practice. In September
2001, the Government also unified VAT rates into a single 18 percent rate, which has
helpedbroaden the tax base. Onthe administrative side, important measureshavebeen, or
are, being implemented in the area o f trade facilitation to simplify customs clearance.
Similarly, the adoption o f a single taxpayer number and related electronic information
sharing has improved the interface between the tax authorities andbusinesses.

14. Government Strategy. Due to its geographical location and relatively good human
capital, Senegal is well positioned to support sustained higher rates o f GDP growth. To
achieve this objective, the country would have to exploit its potential as a gateway to other
West-African countries, and to develop its tourism and export potential, especially under
AGOA and EU's "Everything but Arms" initiative.            The Government recognizes this
potential and has made improvements in investment climate, including alleviation o f
administrative barriers and tax reform, one of the cornerstones o f its growth strategy. The
commitment in favour o f tax reform is clearly stated in the aforementioned Private Sector
Development Strategy letter and further elaborated in the Government's tax reform action

                                             - 5 -



plan(document on file). Further,tax reform was one o fthe four topics for rapid follow-up
selected during the first meeting in November 2002 o f the Presidential Investor Council
(PIC), a high-level public/private partnership and dialogue instrument supported by both
Bretton Woods institutions. The Government's reform strategy and actionplanis based on
FIAS's study and the contribution o f working group that was set up under the auspices o f
the PIC.

15. While recognizing that certain tax and investment incentives issues need to be
consistent with the current discussions with WAEMU, the Government is determined to
implement an ambitious tax reform agendabased on three broadprinciples:


    0  The incorporation o f specific incentives into the Tax Code, decrease top rates and
       reduce the number o ftaxes, resulting ina reductiono fthe METR from 45 percent to
       no more than 28 percent when the investor does not use any tax incentive regimes
       (based on FIAS 2000 methodology). Rationalization o f the tax regime would also
       create a more favourable environment for micro-enterprises andthe informal sector,
       thus facilitating their formalization.


    0  The elimination and/or redirection o f minor, but important taxes, fees and levies
       that would help stimulate or address the needs o f certain sectors and private
        activities. Areas o f reform would include tourism taxes and levies, allocation o f
        cultural royalties, and the vocational training tax (Contribution Forfaitaire h la
        Charge de Z'EmpZoyeur), CFCE set currently at 3.0 percent and 6.0 percent o f
        formal sector wages, respectively for national and foreign employees.           In this
        context, the CFCE will be harmonized at to 3.0 percent (the WAEMU norm) and
        one-third o f its proceeds will be reallocated to the matching grant facility, which i s
       being established under PIPP in order to help enhance the productivity and
        competitiveness o flocal private firms.


    0   Rationalization o f the exception regimes, which would involve the elimination o f
        certain exemptions and consolidationo f other benefits (especially for exporters) into
        a single regime or into the general tax system. In this context, provisions o f the
        investment code regarding waivers o f the consumptiontax and import duties would
        be streamlined to ensure the consistency o f the code with the CET and the VAT
        laws. Giventhe importance o f tourism inthe economy and its hture growth, hotel
        operators would be supported through accelerated depreciation o f investments or
        similar schemes.

16. Proposed PSAC Program. While supporting the implementation o f a comprehensive
tax reform program, the PSAC will focus on reducing the METR to levels low enough to
stimulate private investments and to encourage formal activities without using specific tax
exemption regimes. In addition, the CFCE, a key user fee, will be redirected towards its
intended use. Many o f the tax reforms identified by stakeholders do not individually have
a significant impact on fiscal revenues and collectively short term revenue losses should
not exceed a gross amount o f US$10 million equivalent, and a negligible net amount,

                                            - 6 -



considering recent increasing trend in tax revenues. Nevertheless, the Government
intends to sequence the reform package in a manner that does not undermine the budget
and broad macroeconomic stability. For instance, the proposed income tax reform and
reduction o f top rates must go hand-in-hand with a corresponding elimination o f
exemptions and improved tax administration.         Possible short-term fiscal shortfalls are
taken into account through the adjustment support the overall macroeconomic program.
Capacity buildingfor implementation o f the reforms is beingprovided through PIPP.

C.EdibleOil Sector Reform

17. Sector setting and recent performance.           About 30 percent o f the Senegalese
population directly on indirectly derives part o f their livelihood fkom the groundnut sector.
The overall liberalization efforts pursued by the Senegalese Government inthe 1990s,and
more recently in 2001 with the divestiture o f the seeds distribution subsidiary o f the
monopolistic groundnut processing public enterprise (SONACOS), have encouraged some
efficiency gains. Nevertheless, as reflected by two failed privatization attempts inthe latter
half o f the 199Os, many sector policy issues are unresolved and significant distortions
remain:


    0   The processing activity (groundnut oil) i s protected through a complex system o f
        trade barriers (duties and surcharges based on reference pricing, informal quota
        and domestic taxes on imports of processed oil and close substitutes) and special
        privileges (exemptions etc.). The cost o fthis protection, a regressive tax on edible
        oil products that tends to affect the poor proportionally more, has been estimated
        at around CFAF 25 billion p.a. (about US$4 per-capita at the current exchange
        rate).


    0   Inpart due to distorted incentives, there has beenlittle upstream or downstream
        diversification.   As a result, marginal farmers, including some with more
        economically viable altematives,       have continued to produce groundnut.
        Upstream, Senegal has become the leading exporter of groundnut oil, a niche
        market. There is, therefore, limited scope for significantly raising exports without
        affectingworld prices.


    0   Farmers, on the one hand, may be taxed through low producer prices that are
        needed to compensate for inefficiencies in the processing unit (SONACOS). On
        the other hand they and the sector benefit from implicit or explicit subsidies on
        inputs, financing and so on. A study o f the net effect o f this complex system is
        that farmers by and large are neither taxed nor subsidized. SONACOS, however,
        benefits from an effective rate o fprotection on value-added around 600 percent.


    0   Inthe past, as identified inthe FSAP, the banks have been significantly exposed
        to the edible oil sector. Without a de-facto government guarantee, as well as
        subsidized lines o f credit, donor-funded guarantee funds and interest rate
        subsidies (which distort the financial sector), some o f the financial intermediaries

        might have been significantly distressed. Two factors are now contributing to a
        reduced risk and the exposure o fbanks to the sector. Inthe short-term, production
        has fallen by about 75 percent, with similar decrease in financing needs. Inthe
        medium-term, the introduction o f private operators, with adequate working
        capital, and the dismantlingo f the distortions should enable the banksto improve
        lending policies and compete for creditworthy businesses.


    0   Governmenthas hadto cover an overall sector deficit o f about CFAF 70 billion (USSlOO
        million at the then prevailing exchange rate), accumulated during in 2000 and 2001.
        Giventhe tight fiscal constraints faced by Government, the public financing of the sector
        cannot be sustained without undermining other priority expenditures and poverty
        alleviation programs. More recent figures indicate that total sector deficits have been
        substantially eliminated for 2000/2003. The main area where Government interventioni s
        needed relates to when drought conditions prevail. For instance, resulting falling farm
        revenues prompted public provision o f seeds for the 2003/2004 campaigns. The cost o f
        the program i s estimated at around CFAF 5.1 billion (approximately US$lO million).

18. Government Strategy. The objective sought by the Government is to ensure that the
sector operates on sound, sustainable financial footing and in a competitive economic
environment, where the private sector i s responsible for commercial activities. The most
recent step towards this goal was taken in late 2001, when SONAGRAINES, the public
enterprise responsible for distributing seeds was divested. To help formulate its reform
strategy andsupervise consultants undertakingvarious studies, during 2002 the Government
established two working groups inwhich the stakeholders are represented. The first group
works on preparing the divestiture o f SONACOS. The second focuses on the various
elements o f the protection regime and downstream diversification issues. These reforms,
especially reduction o f protection together with the divestiture o f SONACOS to a private
operator, are scheduled to be completed by June 2004. They should help ensure that the
market for edible oil is contestable andbecomes competitive over time, as i s the case o f the
rice sector liberalizedinthe late 1990s.

19. One result o f this work was the formulation o f a sector reform strategy, outlined inthe
Government's Edible Oil Sector Policy Letter, and dated May 23,2003 (letter on file). The
strategy calls for the following broad actions to be taken: (i) elimination o f trade policy, and
other regulatory and financial sector distortions; (ii)divestiture o f SONACOS; (iii)
complementary sector reforms, involving diversification o f production in groundnut
producing areas as well as possible downstream measures to meet untapped demand; and
(iv) clearance o f accumulated liabilities, currently estimated at under CFAF 10 billion,
through a one-time financial restructuring o fthe sector.

20. ProposedPSACProgram. The PSAC will focus on the elimination o fthe most serious
trade policy and domestic distortions. In view o f the critical importance o f this sector's
reform, additional World Bank support to this important sector reform will be channeled
through two projects other than the present one: (a) the PPP would provide technical
assistanceand advisory services for the divestiture actions, development o f a new marketing
system and implementation o f the reforms; (b) the ongoing Agriculture Services Project

                                               - 8 -



(Cr. 3219-SE) would help put into place a private seed distribution system and undertake a
study of diversification options in groundnut producing areas.              It is expected that
diversification objectives would be supported by a future IDA Credit, under preparation.

D.PostalServices Reform

21. TheSector Setting. Postal services worldwide represent the most accessible means o f
communication for all populations. They cover both traditional mail services and basic
financial services such as money transfers, savings accounts, and giro accounts. Inaddition,
the physical infrastructure goes far beyondthe main urbancenters, reaching out to rural and
remote areas where no other service provider i s present. It is usually acknowledged that
postal services play a significant role in terms o f economic and social integration. Long a
monopolistic sector, postal services have gone through a major transformation, due to both
the diversification of their services (express and all kinds o f value-added paper-based
communication services) andthe influence o fnew technologies intheir production systems.
 Today, countries are progressively allowing more and more competition in the sector,
together with the implementation o f a strong regulatory framework, translating into
increased private sector participation, enhancedsector growth, andjob creation.

22. In Senegal, the postal sector is still organized in a monopolistic way, although three
types o factors are today operating inthe sector:

    0   The historical postal operator, L a Poste, maintains 135 post offices, and is the
        most widespread financial network in the country (by comparison, there are 73
        bank branches). It has about 1,700 employees who distributed about 18 million
        letter items in2001. Its annual revenues reached CFAF 7.9 billion in2001.

    0   The international express carriers who operate under a license from the historical
        postal operator are represented by DHL, Fedex, UPS, and other local operators.
        Their contribution to the sector i s difficult to capture as no official data about their
        activities are collected.

    0   The private operators who intervene in an informal way are represented by: (i)
        single-person or small organizations who operate on a geographically restricted
        part o f the segment, their economic significance is believed to be limited, and (ii)
        by larger organizations (typically the utilities) who internally organize the
        distribution o f their bills. For the latter, their activities have a financial impact on
        L a Poste, as international benchmark shows that utilitybills represent a significant
        portion o f the overall business volume o fthe historical postal operators.


23. L a Poste was transformed into a State-owned corporation in 1995 (Soci&t&Nationale de
La Poste). The company has since been experiencing difficulties rooted in sub-optimal
sector organization andthe absence o f solid corporate govemance structure. The analysis o f
the latest balance sheets and studies o f cross debts betweenL aPoste and the Treasury ledto
the assessment o f an excessive net financial indebtedness (CFAF 12 billion, equivalent to
about US$20 million). L a Poste is only partially responsible for this situation. In 1995
when it was incorporated, Government as sole shareholder provided a social capital o f only

                                                    - 9 -


CFAF 2.9 billion with a negative working capital, anddid not reevaluate the assets. One o f
the reasons why La Poste has accumulated debt against the Treasury is related to the lack o f
sufficient working capital and the subsequentneed to rely on the State treasury to finance its
operations. Keyperformance indicators are highlighted intable 1below.

                           Table 1:Senegal Post Office -Key Indicators

1,700 employees            Number o f letter items handled annually 12.6 million
135post offices            Monopoly on letter up to 1kg
                                    1999                2000              2001 (projected) 2002 (projected)
Total revenues (CFAFbillion):         6.7                6.6               7.9
Deficit (CFAF billion):             -13.8               -4.4              -0.2              -0.1
Traditional postal (mail, express mail, parcels) and financial services (checking accounts, savings books,
money orders, payments): postal services represent about ?4o f the revenues, financial services about !A.

                        ComparativePerformance(access, volumes, productivity)
                                    Senegal             Ivory Coast       Gabon             Guinea
Km2ipost office                       1,500                1,750           5,140              3,900
InhabitantsiPost Office             72,000                88,200          23,300            129,400
Monopoly threshold (kg)                 1.o                  2.0             1.o               1.o
Letterslemployee p.a.                 7,919               26,728            9,841            25,585

Lettersiinhabitants p.a.                0.66                 1.48           5.63               0.36



24. In 1998, corporate govemance issues and weak financial controls worsened the
situation. Over the 1998-1999 period, L a Poste accumulated financial deficits o f almost
CFAF 20 billion.          In 2000, the Government of Senegal took actions to stabilize the
institution and committed itself to an in-depth sector reform, starting with the change o f
General Director to improve corporate govemance and increase private sector-oriented
management.         As indicated in the table above, while the deficit was stabilized, the
performance o fthe postal entity comparespoorly withthat o fothers inthe region.

25. Government Strategy. The objectives pursued by the Govemment are stated in the
Letter o f Postal Sector Policy of April 17, 2003, signed jointly by the Minister o f Culture
and Communication and the Minister of Economy andFinance. They can be summarized
as follows:

    0    Improve overall sector perfomance through a progressive sector liberalization
         and increased private sector participation.

    0    Modemize the legal andregulatory framework and strengthen sector regulation.

    0    Safeguard the right to basic communications for all citizens through a funding
         mechanism to support the cost o f universal postal services obligations.

    0    Transform the historical postal operator into a modem andperforming corporation
         through the definition and implementationo f a new corporate strategy.

                                             - 10-


    0   Promote the sustainable development o f postal financial services in order to
        improve access o f the population to basic financial and savings services, and
        channel these savings towards private investment needs.

26. The Government o f Senegalrecognizes that the key success factors to attain these goals
are two-fold:
    (i)Improvementofcorporate governance.            In2000, a new General Director was
         designated with a clear mandate to turn L a Poste into a profitable and sustainable
         entity. The Director has a strong private sector background (accounting and
         banking) and his designation illustrated the strong choice made by the
         Government in favor o f L a Poste to improve its corporate governance and
         develop market-orientedmanagement; and
    (ii)Clarification of the financial relation between the State and the postal
         corporation. In 2002, an assessment o f the cost o f L a Poste's universal service
         obligations (USO) and o f the arrears owed by the Government was prepared by
         an independent consulting firm mandated by the Ministry o f Economy and
         Finances, which concludedthat the annual U S 0 burdenfor L a Poste is CFAF 1.3
         billion, and that arrears owed to L a Poste over the 1993-2002 period amounted to
         CFAF 13.1 billion.

27. Since 2001, a number of Government decisions and practical steps, supported by the
World Bank and other donors, have been undertaken, illustrating the strong Government's
commitment to the postal sector reform. The key steps include the following:

    0   June 2002:      First report on postal sector         diagnostic    and preliminary
        recommendations.

    0   October 2002: Report on assessment o f the cost o f the postal public service
        missions supported by L a Poste and State arrears to L aPoste.

    0   November 2002: Transfer o f CFAF 2.3 billion included for La Poste in 2003
        budget and the actual transfer was undertaken duringthe 2003 financial year.

    0   April 2003: Letter o f Postal Sector Policy, signed by both Ministers o f Economy
        andFinances, and Culture and Communication.

    0   February 2003: Feasibility study relative to the development o f postal financial
        services and a creation o f a subsidiary inthe form o f a postal bank.

    0   February 2003 :New corporate strategy drafted.

28. The Letter o f Postal Sector Policy contains a timetable andperformance indicators that
establish the framework for follow-up actions. These include the drafting o f a new postal
sector law and its presentation to Parliament, now scheduled for March 2004. Another
measure concerns the implementation o f an adequate regulatory framework.         The most
practical institutional arrangement would be for postal regulation responsibilities to be
delegated to the existing telecom regulator (ART). The multi-sector approach toward
regulation i s often considered the most appropriate institutional arrangement for Africa.

                                              - 11-


Senegalese stakeholders M h e r recognize that postal regulation is not expected to require
hlltime attention.     Thus, by attributing this responsibility to an existing agency the
duplication o f institutions i s avoided and economies o f scale are derived. The draft postal
law adopted by Government on February 5, 2004 envisages that ART will regulate postal
services.

29. To address corporate govemance issues, apresidential decree o f2000 mandates that the
postal financial services be separated from L a Poste and handled as a subsidiary. A
consultant report highlights how this can be made feasible and sustainable. The proposed
approach differs from the total divestiture o f financial services, tried inother countries (e.g.,
Mali and ivory Coast) with limited success. It i s intended to capture synergies that exist
between the postal and financial activities, while maintaining a similar institutional culture
and avoiding the situation inthe past, where mobilized resources have financed the postal
deficit. The Government strategy calls for the new financial subsidiary to concentrate on
providing payments and savings services. By acting as a wholesaler, the entity will recycle
resources itmobilizesthrough sound, strong micro-finance institutions.

30. The new corporate strategy calls for a redundancy plan that will touch about 200 staff.
A preliminarycost assessmento fthis is anamount o fCFAF 2billion(about US$4million),
taking into account legal allowances and a 30-month special retirement bonus. This bonus
was based on 50 months for SONATEL, the telecom operator; L a Poste and SONATEL
share the same unions. The net cost o f retrenchment is expected to be lower once staff
indebtednesstowards the company (16 months o f salary on averageper staff) is deducted.

31. The net total cost for the Government to complete financial restructuringo f L aPoste is
estimated at CFAF 14 billion (about US$22 million, after the settlement o f cross-debts).
This investment is expected to lead to a significant reduction o f the postal fiscal burden as
soon as in 2004, when L a Poste would break even. After recapitalization, implementation
o f a new corporate strategy, capacity building enhanced through the PIPP project,
reorganization o fL a Poste with strong market-oriented subsidiaries, L a Poste will be geared
towards improved performance, profitability and sustainability. There will remain the
compensation for the postal U S 0 to be paid by Government. As L a Poste improves its
productivity and operational performance, U S 0 would be provided ina more efficient way
and at a lesser cost. A performance contract betweenthe State and La Poste, based on the
corporate development plan and spelling the roles and responsibilities o f each party as well
as performance indicators, would provide the right tool to define an incentive for L a Poste
to improve its productivity over time.     Inaddition, the reorganization ofthe postal sector,
with progressive liberalization and adequate regulation, should translate into faster growth
o fthe sector, improvedpostal services offered to businesses, andemployment creation.

32. Proposed PSAC Program. The proposed operation will support: (i)            ongoing reforms
aimed at introducing more competition in postal services, strengthening corporate
govemance, and restructuring the postal corporation so as to improve its sustainability and
its service quality; and (ii)   implementation o f the required financial restructuring o f the
operator. Specifically PSAC supports the improvement o f the postal legal and regulatory

                                            - 12-


framework, financial restructuring o fL aPoste, the implementationo fthe corporate strategy,
to be monitored through a performance contract, and the creation o f the subsidiary for
financial services.

E.Pension Reform

33. Sector Background. Over the last few years, the Government o f Senegal has made
reforms inits formal pension system a priority. Evidence o fthis can be seen inthe positive
steps taken in early 2002 to curtail deficits in the civil service pension scheme, through
changes to the benefit    formula, contribution rates and the retirement age.    The public
discussions that took place prior to these changes and subsequent interest o f key
stakeholders has created significant momentum for further reforms inthis area.

34. The motivation for the reforms goes beyond fiscal policy, although there i s now
increased awarenessabout the size o fthe unfundedpension liability. A second, more direct
cause for concem is the increasing recognition o fthe failure to provide adequatepensions to
formal sector workers not inthe civil service. Inparticular, the workers contributing to the
Institution de Prkvoyance Retraite du Sknkgal (PRES) have watched pension levels
stagnate and are receiving a low or negative implicit rate o f return on their contributions.
This has reduced the credibility o f the scheme despite the perception that there i s an
increasing demand for instruments to ensure old age income security.          This situation
presents a major obstacle to other public policy objectives, such as extending coverage o f
social insurance institutions to new groups o f workers and expandingthe size o f the formal
sector ingeneral.

35. In addition to the primary social function o f the pension system, it is clear that
Senegal's economy, like most others'in the region, suffers from a dearth o f long-term
savings and institutions that can intermediate these effectively. Under the right conditions,
pension reserves could contribute to long-term growth by providing long-term hnds for
capital investment. While this effect cannot be expected without parallel reforms in other
areas, some regional innature, the alternative o f continued reliance on short-term savings
andextemal assistancedoesnot seemviable.

36. The emerging vision o f reform, highlighted in a day-long conference on February 1,
2003 that brought together the social partners for consultation with the two Ministers
responsible for the sector (Labor and Budget), involves two phases. The first phase
involves a series of parametric reforms within the current institutional framework that
would lead to two outcomes. First, the measures would make the overall pension system
more sustainable. This would mitigate the crowding out o f other expenditures due to
pension liabilities and improve the overall fiscal position o f Government.     Second, the
recommended measures would remove the high degree o f uncertainty that pervades the
pension system. In the past, these ad hoc changes to key parameters have introduced
"policy risk" to what should be a secure mechanism for long-term savings. Tying the
development of pension levels to objective indices, rather than political decisions, also

                                              - 1 3 -


removes the inequities that arise when workers with identical contributionhistories receive
very different benefits.

37. Government strategy. The Government's pension reform strategy i s described in the
sector policy statement dated June 6,2003 (document on file). The Government o f Senegal
and the Board o f Trustees o f the PRES are currently discussing a package o f parametric
reforms that would eliminate the uncertainty o f the past regarding pension calculation and
indexation. These measures,which couldbe adopted fairly rapidly include:


    0   Shift to automatic indexation o f benefits to earnings growth until the cumulative
        increase o f benefits has reached 50 percent o f earnings in real terms
        (compensation for past erosion o freal benefits) at which time pensions inprogress
        would be price indexed.


    0   Index all other parameters to wage growth permanently.


    0   Index the ceiling on earnings subject to contributions to salary growth.


    0   Gradually increase the normal retirement age to 60.

38. In addition to these changes, there are two fundamental policy issues being discussed
which relate to the finances o fthe scheme. The first is the governance o fthe P R E S scheme
and in particular, the process by which reserves is being invested. There appears to be
strong commitment to revise the governance towards increasing transparency and
improving investment performance.

39. A second issue, inherited by the current government, i s the need to deal with pension
arrears accumulated inthe mid-1990s. The arrears stem from unpaid contributions o f state
enterprises and agencies some o f which have been liquidated. The one-time payment o f
these arrears, once their true magnitude is established would require a significant budget
outlay o f about CFAF 22 billion (about US$38 million). Until it is resolved however, the
accounts o f PRES will remain uncertain and, importantly, the pension rights of thousands
o f workers, for whom contributions were never made, will remain in doubt. While the
resolution o f this problem i s urgent, it is necessary to ensure that the sudden increase in
P R E S reserves, that would be implied, are accompanied by the measures needed to
improve the investment process and to otherwise ensure that these savings are effectively
managed.

40. In summary, the first phase o f reforms involves a series o f parametric reforms and
changes to the way the P R E S scheme is managed, in particular with regard to its
investmentpolicy and practices. Inthis context, the clearance o f Government arrears and
crediting o f workers' pension rights would complete the rationalization o f the P R E S
pensionpolicy and set the stage for a second phase o freform. It is important to note that the
implementation o f these policy changes requires a series o f concrete steps including
improvements to the existing information system, professional advice regarding investment

                                             - 14-


policy, changes in accounting rules and practices as well as regular independent audits and
training o f Board members and staff.       These, along with other activities required to
successfully implement the policy changes described here are being supported under the
pensions sub-component o fthe PPP.

41. The second phase o f reform has two main components.               The first area involves
redefining pension policy that currently treats civil servants and private sector workers
differently.   There are clear arguments for the integration o f the two existing formal
schemes, although this policy may be gradually applied (for example, applying only to new
civil servants). Integrationwould facilitate labor mobility, improve equity andwould likely
reduce overall administrative costs. However, it i s clear that the first step inthis policy is to
ensure that the PRES schemerepresents a viable altemative.

42. Within this phase o f the reform the future role o f the private sector in overall pension
provision. Proposals have emerged from various stakeholders ranging from an increased
role for voluntary private pensions to a partial privatization o f the mandatoryscheme. As in
the case o f integration, the Government of Senegalbelieves that systemic reforms must be
constructed after the existing schemes are stabilized and credibility is restored. A systemic
reform would require careful preparation over several years, especially with regard to
institutional design.    Questions to be answered upfi-ont include the choice between a
mandatory and a voluntary system, the regulatory environment, coverage, treatment o f civil
servants, fundmanagement rules, and the financing o fthe transition.

43. There appears to be strong commitment to the two-stage pension reform process that
has emerged after more than a year o f discussion among the social partners. The Minister
o f the Budget and the Minister o f Labor are actively leading the reform efforts.            The
Chairman o f the PRES Board is also strongly supporting reform. The Government and
PRES have both requested continued World Bank assistance toward designing and
implementing the pension reforms with the understanding that this is a multi-year process.
Furthermore, Senegal is a leadingmembero fapensionreform initiative inAfrica supported
bythe Bank Group. Inshort, the conditions for policy change, as well as implementation o f
these policies over a 3-5 year period seem favorable in Senegal. In conjunction with
pension subcomponent o f the PPP that would support a series o f activities that will be
crucial toward implementing these policy changes, the proposed PSAC would provide
financing that would allow the government some fiscal room as it cancels its outstanding
arrears with PRES.

44. Inorder to provide guidance and continuity to a reform process that affects at least three
distinct programs   - the Fonds Nationale de Retraite (FNR, the pension scheme for civil
servants), the PRES and the Caisse de Securite Sociale, social security - the Government
would establish a Social Security Commission. This commission would, among other
responsibilities, provide oversight to the Boards responsible for investing social security
reserves. It would ensure that independent audits were performed regularly, draft policy
positions basedon studies commissioned for this purpose, provide information to the public
andoversee the implementation o fpolicy decisions related to consolidation and integration

                                            - 15-


where appropriate. It would also take the lead in related areas o f social security reform,
such as social assistance pensions and health insurance. The Commission would include
independent members with a professional background in relevant areas such as insurance,
finance and accounting.

45. The Government intends to undertake Phase 1 of the reform process quickly, in
particular, the changes to existing parameters o f the P R E S scheme. Over the next four
years, the following measureswould be taken:

    a. By mid-2003 - the passage o f parametric reforms to the P R E S scheme including
        indexation o f key elements o f the benefit formula, contribution ceiling as well as a
        gradual increase inthe retirement age.

    b. During 2004 - the creation o f a Social Security Board to oversee the governance
        o f social security reserves and the rationalization o f the different elements o f the
        system as well as overall reform process.


    C.  During 2004 - the introduction o f a new investment policy statement and
        processes for the PRES.

    d. By end of first quarter 2004 - the resolution o f existing arrears and the reflection
        o f contribution-basedcredits inthe accounts o f P R E S affiliate.

    e. By end-2004 - development o f a plan to eliminate redundant activities between
        social security institutions.

    f. By end-2004 - development of policy proposal regarding the role of private
        pensions inthe overall system.

    g-  Bymid-2005 - completion o fpolicyreview o fthe feasibility anddesirability o f an
        integration o f the two existing formal pension schemes.

    h. Byend 2005 - implementationofplans to rationalize andintegrate social security
        institutions.


    1.  By end 2006 - implementation o f policy regardingrole o f private pensions in the
        overall system including tax treatment and regulatory oversight.

46. Proposed PSAC Program. The proposed operation, which follows up on the
conclusions and recommendations o f the FSAP, will support an ongoing and multi-phase
reform process that would completely restructure the existing pension system in Senegal.
Specifically, hrther to FNR reforms in 2002, the PSAC supports the shift to automatic
indexation o f key parameters o f the pension scheme and an increase in the retirement age
as immediate measures applied to the PRES scheme. This would be followed by the
resolution o f outstanding arrears ina way that restores pension rights to a significant group

                                               - 16-


o f workers and clarifies the status o f the P R E S balance sheet. This measure would follow
the introduction o f a new investment policy and set o f processes designed to protect the
P R E S reserves and makethe pension scheme more sustainable inthe longrun. Inaddition,
medium-term institutional reforms, including the consolidation o f certain activities to
reduce administrative costs and eliminate duplication would be studied and implemented
where appropriate. Policies regardingthe role o f mandatory or voluntary private pension
provision would be formulated and implemented through new legislation and regulation as
necessary. The program would support the oversight o f this fimdamental set o f changes to
the pension system by a new Social Security Commission, which would be in charge of
design and implementationo fthe reforms.

111.THE PROPOSEDCREDIT

A. Objectives

47. The objective o f the Credit i s to support the Government o f Senegal in the
implementation o f subsector reforms aimed at improving the investment climate and
accelerating private sector growth and employment. The private sector adjustment program
thus supports the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy, through improving the
investment climate and implementing key sector reform by: (i)supporting the
implementation o f a private enterprise tax regime that stimulates investments through a
level playing field and lower taxes, and allocates user fees for the private sector promotion
purposes for which they are levied; (ii)   restructuring the edible oil sector by improving the
competitive environment inwhich it operates, through the eliminationor reduction o fpolicy
distortions associated with non-tariff barriers and other domestic protection mechanisms,
and o f public interventions; (iii)reforming postal services by introducing greater
competition in the sector, restructuring the postal enterprise so as to enhance its
sustainability and to create an autonomous financial subsidiary that would provide savings,
andpayment andtransfer services; and (iv) bringingchangesto the pensionsystem to make
it financially sustainable and to improve its corporate governance. The last two reforms
entail substantial financial restructuring, involving clearance o f arrears, that would need to
be financed bythe public budget. Inthe same vein, the proposed tax reforms, while revenue
neutral or enhancing in the medium-term, may entail short-term revenue shortfalls. The
proposed Credit aims to provide budget resources through counterpart funds generated by
balance o f payment support it provides, and thus help ensure that social and poverty
alleviationprograms are not disrupted.

B.Linkto the CAS, PovertyImplicationsand SocialImpact

48. The Board discussed the current CAS covering FY03-05 on April 17,2003. The CAS
proposes a strategic and selective approach that emphasizes World Bank support to the
growth pillar o f the PRSP. Reflecting the importance o f the private sector in stimulating
and sustaining growth that would alleviate poverty, about 25 percent o f IDA resources
under the base case scenario o f the CAS are allocated to the present investment operation,
as well as a complementary PPP project. Both projects have been programmed under the

                                               - 17-


low case CAS scenario. The PSAC would support key policy reforms in the areas o f tax,
edible oil, pensions and post office reforms, while at the same time providing budget
resources through counterpart f h d s generated to alleviate the incremental fiscal impact o f
these reforms. Actions supported under these projects will help Senegal meet investment
climate-related CAS indicators andtriggers for the higher case lending scenarios. These two
operations therefore alleviate the risk o f CAS growth objectives and related targets not
beingmet.

49. As reported in Senegal's PRSP, the household survey conducted in2001 estimated that
54 percent o f the Senegalese population consumed less than 2,400 calories per adult
equivalent per day. This puts Senegal's current headcount index of poverty at just over 50
percent o f the population.       Participatory surveys also carried out in 2001 are broadly
consistent with this number. According to these surveys 65 percent o f households felt they
were poor in2001 and 23 percent considered themselves extremely poor.

50. The goal o f the PRSP i s to cut the headcount index to 25 percent o f the population by
2015, thus meeting its poverty reduction Millennium Development Goal (MDG) o f 27
percent. Assuming the elasticity o f the poverty rate to per capita GDP growth to be -0.89
(as used in the PRSP), per capita growth will need to average 3.5 percent per year if the
MDG target of 27 percent is to be attained by year 2015. This means an average GDP
growth rate o f 6 percent p.a. (2 percentage points below the PRSP annual GDP growth
target o f 8 percent) Poverty/growth elasticity was more like -0.3 for the period 1994-2001.
Thus GDP growth through year 2015 will not only haveto be a full percentage point above
that achieved for the period since the 1994 devaluation (which itself was one of the highest
rates achieved since independence), it will also have to be three times more poverty
reducing (labor absorbing).

51. Ifthe goals of an averageGDP growthrate of 6 percent p.a. anda poverty/growthelasticity of-
0.89 are achieved, then most of the other MDGs can also be achieved by 2015, assuming the
prevailing correlations between poverty reduction and improvement in various MDGs. In such a
scenario, and it i s the one presented inthe PRSP, prevalence of underweight children could be cut
well below 10percent, universal primary education and gender parity inschools couldbe achieved,
and almost all children could routinely be immunized. However, giventhe abnormally highstarting
point, for Senegal's per capita GDP, infant, under5 and maternal mortality rates, achievement of
MDGs inthese areas would have to wait until 2020-25. Higher growth rates would enable
MDGtargets to bereachedsooner.

52. The PRSP builds its action program on four pillars: (i)wealth creation through
economic reforms and private sector development; (ii)       capacity building and development
o f service delivery; (iii)improvement in living conditions o f the poor and vulnerable
groups; and (iv) implementation o f the poverty reduction strategy and monitoring or
outcomes.

53. The wealth creation strategy i s to achieve high, sustained, employment-generating
growth. The focus i s on rural development and the development o f small and medium-scale
enterprises, especially in agricultural processing, which are thought to be particularly labor-

                                              - 18-


intensive and have strong linkages to the rural sector. The PSAC and its companion PPP
are strongly focused on speeding up growth through measures to improve the investment
climate and build capacities in the public sector.         These would help sustain further
improvements in the investment climate and hence in the dynamism o f the Senegalese
economy in the longer run. This involves building up the capacities that: (i)       help create
markets - such as improving property/control rights on land, and the enforcement o f
contracts; (ii) enhancethe ability to put into place regulations that improve the contestability
o f markets - such as entry and exit, regulatory regimes and the capacity o f the judiciary to
enforce its legal rulings; (iii) enable the Government to provide stability to the economy -
such as sound fiscal and monetary policies; and (iv) strengthen the public sector's ability to
improve the access o f the poor to key services. The PSAC and the PIPP support specific
direct interventions inthe first three o f these areas and support the fourth (service delivery
to the poor and vulnerable) indirectly by helping speed up growth and through it tax
revenues which canbe usedto increase service delivery to the poor.

54. There are, however, some major risks. Inelastic response o f poverty reduction to higher
GDP growth since 1994 remains modest. Some 70 percent o f the poor households in
Senegal live inrural areas. Future trends inpoverty reduction will depend importantly on
growth in agriculture and on the movement o f labor to off-farm activities and industries
(including tourism) in the urban sector. Raising productivity in a drought-prone country
with substantial arid and semi-arid areas is a complex matter, prone to failure. The route
out o f poverty will more likely be for the population to move to urban areas, or even
emigrate if they can, than for them to stay where they are. The speed o f transition will
depend on how quickly the demand for labor can be expanded inurbanareas. Pressureson
Dakar as the portal not only for Senegal, but also for the entire region, will increase rapidly,
making extra demands on the capabilities o f the public sector to manage Senegal's
transformation from a predominantly rural to an urban-based society. The PSAC and the
PIPPcouldprovideimportant support to this transformation.

C. Credit FeaturesandImplementation

55. Credit amount, Tranching and Key Actions - The Borrower will be the Republic o f
Senegal. The proposed amount o f IDA financing i s US$45 million equivalent. The amount
is considered adequateto support the momentum o fprivate sector reforms in Senegal. The
credit will be on standard IDA terms. The proposed Credit in the form o f an adjustment
credit will be disbursed inone fixed tranche o fUS$8.5 million (the refinancing o f a PPF o f
US$500,000 is included in the overall Credit amount) and three floating tranches,
supporting tax, postal andpensionreform. The tax floating tranche will be o fUS$7 million
equivalent.     The second floating tranche (postal services) will be o f US$9 million
equivalent, and the last floating tranche (pensions) will be o f US$20 million equivalent.
The proposed multi-tranche structure is designed for simplicity and to allow Senegal the
flexibility o f accelerating the reform program inselected areas, thus givingthe Government
the possibility to disbursethe Credit more quickly, ifneeded.

                                              - 19-



56. First Fixed Tranche - The Government has conducted or intends to conduct prior to
Credit effectiveness (all actions but the two o f the actions indicatedbelow have been taken
prior to Board presentation) a series o f actions that constitute the basis for the disbursement
upon effectiveness o f the first tranche o f US$8.5 million. The reason for the effectiveness
conditions relates to the normal review process o f laws by the Borrower, which has been
preparedbutwill only be completed byApril2004. These actions arethe following:


    0   Taxation: a detailed action plan and associatedtimetable acceptable to IDA for the
        reduction o f the METR and other tax reforms has been approved by the Minister o f
        Finance.


    0   Edible Oil: (a) elimination o f distortions - Government has decided to eliminate the
        excise tax andto harmonize the import surchargeon edible oils andGovernment has
        prepared a detailed action plan and associated timetable acceptable to IDA for the
        elimination and/or reduction o f other distortions associated with trade and domestic
        policies; and (b) application decrees related to the elimination o f the surcharge and
        excise tax shall have been issuedbyGovernment (effectiveness condition).


    0   Postal Services: (a) improved legal and regulatory environment -postal law
        acceptable to IDA has been prepared (effectiveness condition); and (b) financial
        restructuring - Government has presented a recapitalization scheme acceptable to
        IDA andhas formally agreedto cancel cross-debtso fabout CFAF 12billion.

    0   Pensions: (a) improved financial sustainability - parametric reforms in a manner
        acceptable to IDA implementedthrough the introduction o f automatic indexation of
        benefit parameters and ceiling for contributions for P R E S and FNR; and (b)
        financial restructuring - satisfactory planproduced to resolve the arrears issue andto
        credit the accounts o fthe affected workers.

57. Floating Tranches - The general conditions before release o f the floating tranches
relates to maintaining satisfactory macroeconomic performance                   and satisfactory
implementationo f the private sector strategy. More specifically, the Government: (i)      would
provide evidence that the macroeconomic framework i s consistent with the objective o f
macroeconomic stability, as per indicators agreed with IDA; and (ii)          progress has been
achieved in carrying out the program outlined in its letters o f sector policy. Specific
conditions for eachtranche are as follows:

                                              -20-



(a) TaxReform:


   0   Evenplaying field and incentives - (a) METR for industryreduced to a maximum
       o f 28 percent in the absence o f any tax exemption regimes; and (b) elimination o f
       specific exceptional tax regimes, including inconsistencies between the TEC andthe
       VAT, but excluding exceptional tax regimes for certain exporters, the extractive
       industry sector andthe tourism sector, as agreedwith the Association.


   0   Utilization o f user fees - CFCE harmonized to 3 percent and at least one percentage
       point allocated to the existingmatching-grant scheme.

(b) Postal ServicesReform:

   0   Improved legal andregulatoryenvironment -effective transfer o fresponsibilities for
       postal regulationto ART.


   0   Clarification o f relationship between L a Poste and its shareholder, Government -
       Performance contract acceptable to IDA entered into between the Government and
       L aPoste.


   0   Creation o f the postal financial services subsidiary - Creation o f a corporate
       subsidiary o f L a Poste specifically responsible for the operation o f the financial
       services previously carried out byLaPoste.

(c) Pension Reform :


    0  Corporate governance - establishment o f a consultative commissionresponsible for
       overseeing the reform o f Senegal's social security system and associatedgovernance
       requirements in respect o f the management thereof, with: (i)terms o f reference
       acceptable to the Association (ii)members appointed with qualifications and
       experience satisfactory to the Association, and (iii) consisting o f suitably
                                                                  staff
       qualified persons inadequatenumbers;


    0  Rationalization o f schemes - preparation o f a report for consolidating the existing
       pension programs, andimplementationthereof..


    0  Private provision - Newprivate pension policy developed andimplemented.


    0  Financial restructuring - Arrears to P R E S paid by Government resulting in the
       restitution o f affected workers' rights

58.Disbursement     -   The Borrower will open an account in its Central Bank. Upon
notification o frelease for the tranche, the Association will deposit the proceeds o fthe Credit
inthis accountat the request ofthe Borrower. The support to balanceofpayments provided
under the Credit is not intendedto finance certain categories o f products. Ifafter deposit in

                                             -21 -


this account, the proceeds o f the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (Le., to finance
goods or services inthe standard negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to
refund the amount to the Credit Account. The project steering committee already set up
under the PIPP would be responsible for monitoring use o f funds and report any improper
use o f funds.

59.Auditing and Other Fiduciary Considerations. The Association reserves the right to
seek an audit o f the accounts related to the Credit. Inaddition, given that Bank financing
co-mingles with the Borrowers' general resources, improving the transparency,
accountability and effectiveness in the management o f public resources would be key to
fiscal sustainability, and a pre-condition for a possible hture PRSC. The ongoing Public
Expenditure Review (PER) dialogue would help the Government improve public
expenditure management and ensure that programs implemented under the PRSP are
adequately planned and funded. However, it is also essential that public sector management
ensure transparency and accountability. The actionplanfor improving these areas has been
derived from the PER, the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR): these reports have been completed and
submitted to the Government.       It should also be noted that the audits o f certain key
institutions, including L a Poste and pensions, is a requirement under PIPP and will be
financed bythat project.

60. Implementation and Monitoring - The reform program under this Credit will be
implemented and led by the Ministry o f Economy and Finance, working closely with other
line Ministries and other stakeholders. To ensure greater stakeholder commitment and
ownership inthe conception and implementationof the reforms, the Borrower will devolve
to the PIPP Steering Committee the responsibility to oversee PSAC reforms. This
committee would be responsible for monitoring whether or not expected output and
outcome are being attained and, if necessary, recommend remedial actions to avoid
slippage. Given the overlap between this project andPIPP, the Project Management Unito f
the latter will also be responsible for preparing quarterly reports on progress made towards
meetingtranche conditions.

61. Environmental and Social Aspects - The PSAC has been classified as a category "C"
project. The environmental concems and impact under the PSAC are expected to be
extremely limited as most o f the project concems policy reforms. No major environmental
impact i s expected in the case o f SONACOS, which will be divested as a going venture.
Nevertheless, funding under PIPP i s available to assess environmental impact, if any.
Similarly, the social impacts o f the project are expected to be largely positive through the
direct and indirect employment generation and improvedpostal andpension services for the
rural poor and formal sector employee.

62. CZosing Date - The expected closing date o f the Credit will be December 31,2005 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.

                                               -22-


D.Coordinationwith IMFandDonors

63. The World Bank and the IMF are in a partnership to support the implementation o f
Senegal's development strategy, as outlined inthe PRSP. The details o f IMF-World Bank
relations are provided in the CAS (annex 14), which underlines collaboration on structural
measures in specific sectors, notably edible oil (groundnuts).         The reform program
supported by the proposed Credit is consistent with the IMF's PRGF program. IMF Staff
has been consulted duringproject preparation andhas provided their inputs to the technical
work underpinning the project. Inthis context a special coordination effort has been made
to ensure the harmony o f objectives sought under reforms o f taxes, the edible oil sector,
postal services and pensions, with those under the PRGF program. The issue of the fiscal
impact o f the private sector reforms has also been discussed extensively with IMF Staff.
Bothinstitutions recognize that these reforms may result ina largelyone-time fiscal impact,
which will be more than compensated by the alleviation o f the fiscal burden o f the
subsectors concerned in 2004 and beyond. Further, IDA financing during the adjustment
period for sector reform should help the Government maintain its priority on social
spending, as defined inthe PRSP.

               Table 2. Senegal: ExternalFinancingRequirements, 2001-06
                                 (Inbillions o fCFA francs)

                                     I 2001 I     2002 I   2003 I   2004 I 2005 1  2006   I
Extemal financing requirements          -222       -290    -237     -301   -287     -293
Current account deficit                 -219       -224    -234     -280   -298     -298
Amortization                             -66       -77      -64     -61     -5 8     -60




Sources: Senegalese authorities; and staff estimates andprojections.
1/Without IMF(-=increase).

64. The reform program proposed is thus consistent with the Government's overall
macroeconomic program.        Other donors, including USAID, France, and the EU are
providing important technical assistance in all four areas supported by the PSAC. These
donors have contributed to the preparation o f the PSD strategy and are expected to support
the implementation o f the reform program. Furthermore, donors, including the EUand the

                                             -23-



African Development Bank (project approved inDecember 2003), have ongoing or planned
support to the Government's macroeconomic program that are additional to the PSAC and
contribute towards closingthe balance o fpayments gap, see table 2 above.

                                IV. BENEFITSAND RISKS

Benefits

65. The private sector policy and institutional reforms will leadto permanent improvements
inthe investment climate and contribute to Senegal achieving higher sustainable growth.
They will also stem the fiscal losses and contingent liabilities related to postal services, the
pension system andthe edible oil sector, through one time financial restructuringand sector
reforms aimed at ensuring financial sustainability. The poor will derive direct and indirect
benefits from the reforms through employment and revenue generation opportunities, the
elimination o f regressive taxes, and improved access to postal and financial services.
Formal sector workers will also benefit from improved social protection. Expectedinduced
effects o fthe reforms involve the mobilization o fterm resourcesbythe pensionscheme and
the post office. Once recycled through sound financial intermediaries, these would help
finance viable private investments, including SMEs'. Finally, by strengthening fiscal
balances and contributing towards a lasting improvement in the investment climate, the
PSAC would help mitigate certain risks identify inthe CAS andincrease the probability o f
achievingthe highcase scenario triggers.

Risks

66. The proposed PSAC includes an ambitious reform agenda that may be resisted by
vested interests andmaybe undermined bypolitical concerns. The major risks are therefore
imperfect implementation o f the reforms andpolicy reversal, which would undermine their
sustainability. These risks have been mitigated a number ways. First, for the past three
years a series o f diagnostics studies have been undertaken that have helped strengthen the
analytical basis o f the reforms. Second, a broad participatory process has been followed to
ensure stakeholder buy-in, including at the highest level o f policy-making. Third, many o f
the reforms, once implemented, would be difficult to reverse.             Fourth, the specific
conditions are, to the extent possible, focused on outcomes andselective, covering the most
critical aspects o fthe reforms. The relative simplicity and focus o fthe project design is thus
strength. Lastly, the PSAC fdly integrates lessons learnt in Senegaland elsewhere andhave
drawn on these in the design o f the reforms to anticipate possible problems. This strong
underpinningconstitutes a key risk alleviation instrument.

67. The second risk is institutional in nature.           To avoid the risk o f imperfect
implementation due to lack o f capacity, insufficient analysis and absence of consensus,
the parallel P P P operation provides considerable assistance in the design and
implementation o f the reforms. The third category o f risk is specific to the four areas o f
reform within the program. These risks are considered manageable and are mitigated
through a combination o f upfront actions being taken, implementation support provided

                                              -24-


by IDA and consensus building in favour o f the reforms. The specific risks associated
with eachreform includes the following:


   0   Tax- The fiscal impact may be greater than expected and the proposed reforms
       may be inconsistent with changes envisaged within WAEMU (investment code
       reform).     The detailed analysis undertaken during project preparation and
       experience with similar reforms elsewhere confirm that this risk is not substantial.
       The Bank's supports the WAEMU reforms and available information indicates no
       apparent contradictions.

       Edible Oil- The main inter-related risks are failed privatization and incomplete
       implementation sector reform. The up front decision by Government to remove
       much o f the protection on processing activities and progress to date towards
       divesting SONACOS should reduce the scope for rent seeking and maximize the
       likelihood o f success. The removal o f remaining distortions is an effectiveness
       condition and should help ensure the sustainability o f the reforms.

    e  Postal - These reforms are at an advanced stage o f implementation and the risk o f
       inadequate implementation seems minimal. The main potential risk would be
       associated with poor management and inadequate corporate management, which
       would for instance lead to losses at the savings bank. These risks are expected to
       be manageable and will be monitored through regular audits and the performance
       contract.


    0  Pensions - Given that the main parametric reforms have been largely
       implemented the main risk associated with this component is imperfect
       implementation o f the systemic reforms and inadequate corporate Governance
       impacting PRES' sustainability. Giventhe commitment o f stakeholders and that
       various interest groups are present in the oversight o f the scheme, the scope for
       severe slippage seems limited. Further, monitoring and auditing o f the pensions
       scheme, till at least 2008 with P P P support, should provide an early waming
       system that would help identify andredress major problems.

Lessons Learnt FromPast BankExperience

A. Past adjustment loans

68. The World Bank has supported the Government's reform effort since 1980 through five
Structural Adjustment Loans (SALS), five Sectoral Adjustment Loans (SECALs - in the
financial sector, the transport sector, the agriculture sector, the private sector andthe energy
sector) and an economic recovery credit. The performance o f these operations has been
uneven.

69. Approved in 1981, S A L Iwas suspended shortly thereafter due to incomplete
implementationo f the programs, and ultimately cancelled. Under SALs IIand III(1986 and

                                            -25-


1987), the economy was substantially liberalized and progress was made in investment
planningandprogrammingandpopulationpolicy. Bothcredits were releasedanddisbursed
in full. The design of S A L N reflected several lessons leamt from previous adjustment
programs inSenegal. Inparticular there was greater reliance on up-front conditionalities. In
addition, S A L IV focused on relatively fewer areas thanthe previous SALSand supported a
limited number o f critical actions. Overall the achievements o f SAL IV fell short o f the
required objectives. Although some progress was made in some areas, much o f it was
subsequently eroded. The thirdtranche was postponed and then cancelled.

70. There are three main lessons from S A L IV and overall adjustment implementation in
Senegal. First, the importance o f dynamic leadership o f policy reform should not be
understated. Second, the complex nature o f macroeconomic adjustment operations placed
substantial burdens on Senegal's administrative capacity, and consequently, there was a
recognized need to shift from fewer andmore complex operations to a series o f specific and
well-focused operations andconditionalities. Third, the implementation o f the reforms had
some sequencing shortcomings becauseo fthe difficulty inimplementingkey measures.

71. These lessons explain the shift to sectoral adjustment operations beginning with the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Financial SECAL) in December 1989. The Financial
SECAL was a success, leading to a more active role by BCEAO inbank supervision and
monitoring, a substantial reform o f credit policies, the liquidation o f seven banks and the
restructuring o f two others. The Transport Sector Adjustment Loan (Transport SECAL,
1991), the Private Sector Competitiveness and Adjustment Credit (PASCO, 1995) and the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (AgSECAL, 1995) were also rated satisfactory.

72. The experience o ftwo recently completed adjustment operations confirms lessonslearnt
earlier and reflect the challenges andrewards o f implementing such operations. Inthe case
o f the Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC, 1998), the project was implemented
relatively satisfactorily, but post 9/11 economic problems contributed to the unsuccessful
privatization o f the electricity company and unsatisfactory developmental outcome. Onthe
other hand, as a result o f selectivity and prioritization o f issues, the Trade Reform and
Competitiveness Credit (Cr. 3419) fully achieved its objectives.

B. Other Lessons

73. Investment Climate -Through          the participation o f FIAS in the design and
implementation o f tax and administrative barrier reforms, Africa-wide and international
experience i s hlly reflected in the project. One lesson learnt is that initially promising
reforms do not necessarily lead to sufficient improvements in the investment climate. In
view o f this, reforms need to be underpinned by surveys and quantitative methods, and
monitored vis-a-vis national as well as international benchmarks. The other lesson learnt is
that the reform process i s iterative, and requires strong stakeholder participation and
ownership.

                                              -26-


74. Pension Reform - The conceptual ground for the pension reform in Senegal has been
laid through economic and sector work initiated in 2000. The depth and breadth of the
proposed reforms places Senegal among the leaders in Africa. Bank lendingin support o f
such reforms i s usually through fairly substantial adjustment operations (see for instance the
examples o f the Russian Federation, Ln. 4234, and Bulgaria, Ln. 4081). This approach
facilitates the necessaryfinancial restructuring, but suffers from the fact that the time frame
for adjustment operations is shorter than the one needed to ensure sustainability through
appropriate systems and capacity building. There are also examples o f pension reform
being supported under investment operations, for instance in Mali (Cr. 3394) and at the
municipal level inBrazil (Ln.4369 andLn.4537). Such approaches arepartial, as they tend
to respond to capacity building needs, without tackling significant policy reforms and
required financial restructuring. The PIPP address the former area, while the PSAC focus
on the latter two.

75. Postal Reform - A comprehensive review o f the postal sector worldwide shows that
mere corporate transformation in the postal sector has not led to performance
improvements. In fact, in some instances, unfocused corporatization has led to service
deterioration. A comprehensive reform covering the entire sector stands as the best vehicle
to provide a conducive environment for change and sector development. In the postal
sector, three important components o f reform relate to the definition o f (i)    a clear sector
policy by which the Government identifies its objectives for the postal sector; (ii)an
adequate status, organization and a viable financial structure for the historical postal
operator; and (iii) a corporate strategy and an adequate capacity buildingplan, including the
diversification from the core activities to leverage the economies o f scale and scope
embedded inthe postal network. This project addresses all three o f these needs. Recently,
the World Bank has supported a number o f initiatives aimed at either improving and
liberalizing post office services, or spinning off postal financial services (e.g, Cameroon
underCr. 3359, where important lessonsonpotentialriskshavebeen learned) andor setting
up rural savings institutions (e.g., in Tanzania in the context of privatization o f its
commercial Bank). The experience o f Francophone Africa indicates that fully integrated
postal and financial services, such as the one in Senegal, are not desirable because cross
subsidies between the two tend to rundown assets o f the depositors and result inunfunded
liabilities. However, there are also limitations to fully separating post office and its related
financial services, because different corporate cultures result in incompatibility and loss o f
important synergy: such as a situation recently led to the repurchase by the German post
office o f its formerly privatized financial services. Given these experiences, the project will
support a reform process that calls for financial services o f the post office to be made into a
subsidiary. Once this objective is attained, the project will also help the financial services
develop their resource mobilization and low risk, sustainable lending services, possibly as a
wholesaler o fmicro-finance.

76. Edible Oil Sector Reform - The reform o f the groundnut sector has been a priority in
Senegal since well before 1995. Since then, three IDA Credits have supported this reform
without completing the reform agenda. The review o f the experience show that part o f the
problem was with the design of the reforms. Indeed, lessons learnt indicate that when the

                                            -27-



projects (including the recently completed private sector project, Cr. 2759) that focused
mainly on divestiture failed because there were too many uncertainties regarding future
sector policies, including trade policy and financing regimes. While some reforms were
implementedunder sectoral adjustment Credits (Cr. 2738 and Cr. 2681) these were limited
by the short timeline o f the operations: important first steps were taken but subsequent
reforms were not implemented. The project and the proposed complementary PSAC,
together with the ongoing rural development project (Cr. 3219), build on this past
experience as well as parallel similar efforts underway in Mali, Benin and, with limited
success, Uganda in the area o f cotton reform.       The main lessons learnt include the
importance o f ensuring the buy-ino f stakeholders, tackling sector policy issues ahead o f or
in conjunction with divestiture, formulating the privatization process so as to ensure
transparency and maximize potential competition, and providing a safety net and/or
alternative activities to affected farmers.




Attachments


                                                             -28-


                                                                                                              ANNEX A
                                         Senegal Social Indicators
                                                             Latestsingle year                Same regionlincome group

                                                                                                         Sub-
                                                                                                     Saharan         Low-
                                                       1970-75        igao-aii     1995-01             Africa      income
POPULATlON
Total population, mid-year(millions)
  Growth rate (76 annual average for period)
Urban population (% ofpopulation)
Total fertility rate (births per woman)

POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index
  Urban headcount index
  Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                       380           370           480              470,O          430
Consumer price index (1995=100)                             29             71          111              133,l          141
Food price index (1995=100)

INCOMEKONSUMPTIONDISTRIBUTION
Gini index
Lowest quintile(% of incomeor consumption)
Highest quintile(% ofincome or consumption)
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
  Health (% of GDP)                                                                                                     1 2
  Education (% of GNI)                                                                                                 3,4
  Social security and welfare ("A of GDP)
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
  Total
      Male
      Female
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
  Total                                                                    53           51                55,4          76
      Urban                                                 56             63                             81,3          88
      Rural                                                                27                             42.6          71
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
  Measles                                                                                                 52,9          57
  DPT                                                                                                     46,4          57
Child malnutrition (% under5 years)                                                     22
Life expectancyat birth
(years)
  Total                                                     43             45           52                46,s          59
      Male                                                                                                45,7          58
      Female                                                                                              47,4          60
Mortality
   Infant (per thousandlive births)                                                     68                91,2          76
   Under5 (per thousandlive births)                                                     139              161,6          115
  Adult (15-59)
      Male(per 1,000population)                                                                          504,s         294
      Female (per 1,000population)                                                                       459,4         261
   Maternal (per 100,000live births)
Birthsattended by skilled health staff ("7)

CAS Annex 55. This tablewas producedfrom the CMU LDB system.                                                        04/28/03
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollmentratiosexceeding 100indicatediscrepancies
betweenthe estimates of school-age populationand reported enrollmentdata.

                                                  - 2 9 -

                                                                                         ANNEXB

                           PRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                             SENEGAL
                                KEYECONOMICINDICATORS

                                                                            Est        Projected
 Indicator                      1996   1997   1998 1999 2000        2001   2002 2003 2004      2005

National accounts (as YOGDP at current market prices)

Gross domestic product           100,o  100,o  100,o 100,o     100,o 100,o  100,o 100,o 100,o   100,o
  Agriculturea                    23,O  21,O     20,O    20,O  20,O   19,O  20,O  21,O   21,O   20,9
  Industrya                       25,O  26,O     27,O    29,O  30,O   29,O  31,O  31,O   31,O    31,l
  Servicesa                       52,O  53,O     53,O    51,O  50,O   52,O  49,O  48,O   48,O   48,O

Total Consumption                 87,O  88,O     87,O    89,O  89,O   88,O  87,O  87,O   87,O    90,5
Gross domestic fixed investment   16,O   18,O    18,O    19,O  20,O   20,o  20,o  20,o   21,o    20,l
  Government investment            6,O    6,O     6,O      7,O   7,O    7,O   6,O   6,O    6,O    6,O
  Privateinvestment               10,O   12,O    12,O    12,O   13,O  13,O   14,O  14,O  15,O    14,O
EXPOITS (GNFS)~                   34,O  34,O     33,O    30,O  31,O   30,O  29,O  29,O   28,O    28,5
Imports(GNFS)                     40,O  40,O     39,O    38,O  40,O   38,O  36,O   36,O  36,O    393

Gross domestic savings            13,O   12,O    13,O    11,O   11,0  12,O   13,O  13,O  13,O     8,O
Gross nationalsavings'            12,O   15,O    15,O    13,O   13,O  14,O   15,O  16,O  15,O    12,O

Memorandum items
Gross domestic product           4651   4387    4620     4746  4358   4593  5079  5456   5903   6372
(US$millionat current
prices)
Grossnationalproductper         530,O  530,O   510,O 500,O 520,O     500,O  480,O 520,O 550,O   578,6
capita(US$, Atlas method)

Real annualgrowth rates
(%, calculatedfrom 1987
prices)
  Grossdomestic productat        5,1%   5,2%   5,7%      5,0%  5,6%   5,6%  2,4%  6,6%   5,6%   5,8%
  market prices
  Gross DomesticIncome           5,4%   5,4%    6,7%     3,2%  3,6%   5,7%  2,4%  7,6%   5,7%   4,2%

Realannualper capita
growthrates(%, calculated
from 1987prices)
  Gross domestic productat       2,3%   2,3%    2,8%     2,2%  2,9%   2,9% -0,2%  3,9%   2,9%   3,1%
  market prices
  Total consumption              1,4%   2,6%    1,8%     2,9%  1,8%   2,7% -0,7%  5,3%   3,5%   2,4%
  Privateconsumption             1,9%   2,8%    2,3%     3,4%  2,4%   3,1% -0,8%  6,0%   3,9%   2,8%

                                                      -30-

                                                                                               ANNEXB

                               PRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                                   SENEGAL
                                      KEYECONOMICINDICATORS




 Indicator                      1996 1997     1998 1999 2000       2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Balance of Payments (USSm)


 E X P O ~ ~ S
           (GNFS)~              1588,O 1276,O 1401,O 1445,O 1339,O 1375,O 1448,O 1555,O 1666,O 1818,7
    Merchandise FOB              986,O 905,O 973,O 1028,O 959,O     992,O 1046,O 1134,O 1224,O 1259,O
  Imports (GNFS)~               1896,O 1568,O 1733,O 1806,O 1734,O 1747,O 1833,O 1952,O 2102,O 2515,2
    Merchandise FOB             1268,O 1176,O 1288,O 1375,O 1342,O 1356,O 1422,O 1517,O 1639,O 1839,8
 Resource balance               -308,O -292,O -332,O -361,O -395,O -372,O -385,O -397,O -436,O  -696,5
 Net current transfers             58,O  179,O 172,O  159,O 198,O   181,O 205,O 202,O    195,O   379,2
 Current account balance        -336,O -185,O -216,O -292,O -284,O -270,O -253,O -266,O -308,O  -317,3

 Net private foreign direct        -5,O  107,O  53,O  126,O   36,O     1,0  70,O   75,O    81,O   94,5
 investment
 Long-term loans (net)           339,O   182,O 229,O 252,O 223,O    291,O  197,O  180,O 177,O    242,7
   Official                        76,O  109,O  66,O  -22,O   45,O    74,O  84,O   76,O    90,O   90,O
   Private                       263,O    73,O 163,O 274,O   178,O  217,O  113,O 104,O     87,O  152,7
 Other capital (net, including     57,O   42,O  -4,O    0,O    4,O    33,O  34,O   77,O    74,O   73,2
 errors and omissions)
 Change inreservesd               -55,O -147,O -61,O  -86,O   22,O   -55,O -47,O  -67,O   -25,O  -93,O

Memorandum items
Resource balance (% o f          -6,6% -6,6% -7,1% -7,6%    -9,0%   -8,1% -7,6%  -7,3%   -7,4% -15,O%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
( YR87 prices)
 Merchandise exports (FOB)        7,0% -l,l% 10,4%
                                               7,9%          1,3%  -11,5%  6,6%   5,8%    5,6%    3,1%
   Primary                        5,2% -l,8%   2,3%   6,3% 13,3%   -17,0% 32,3%   4,2%    4,1%    3,5%
   Manufactures                  10,0%   4,8%  2,2%   4,0%   5,0%   -9,7% -5.8% -2,1% -2,0%      -1,6%
 Merchandise imports (CIF)        5,9% -0,2% 10,2%    5,2% -0,3%     6,4%  6,5%   3,9%    4,9%    5,0%

                                                        -31 -

                                                                                                     ANNEXB

                             PRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENTCREDIT
                                                    SENEGAL
                                     KEYECONOMICINDICATORS



Publicfinance
(as Yoof GDPat current
marketprices)e
 Current revenues                       17,3   17,3     17,5    17,5   18,5   17,8   18,8    19,l   18,6   19,5
 Current expenditures                   13,5   12,7     11,6    12,4   13,7   15,3   12,6    12,l   11,9   12,l
 Current account surplus (+) or def      3,8    4,7      5,9      5,l   4,9    2,5    6,l     7,O    6,7   7,4
 Capital expenditure                     7,5    6,2      8,5      4,9    6,2   6,4    7,4     7,9    7,l    8,3
 Foreign financing                       6,3    3,8      3,8      2,7    1,7   3,7    3,8     1,8     1,6  3,4

Monetary indicators
 M2IGDP (at current market prices:     24,l    22,9     23,l    24,4   25,4   25,4   25,6    25,6   25,7   28,O
 Growth o f M2 (%)                      11,3    2,4      8,l    12,7   10,7     8,8   8,8     7,O     8,O   8,6
 Private sector credit growth /        150,l 213,9      26,5    83,8   125,6  57,2 381,7   314,2    122,6 143,4
 total credit growth (%)

Priceindices( YR87 =loo)
 Merchandise export price index        109,7 101,7    101,4     97,O   89,3  104,3  103,2  105,7    108,2 111,4
 Merchandise import price index        136,3 128,8    120,8    119,O 123,l   129,4  133,7 137,4     142,l 146,9
 Merchandise terms o f trade index      80,5   78,9     83,9    81,5   72,5   80,6   77,2    76,9    76,l  75,8

 Real exchange rate                     58,O   54,l     55,3    54,O   50,8   50,5   50,2    50,O   49,7   49,5
 (US$/LCU)'
 Real interest rates
 Consumer price index                  2,8%   1,8%     1,1%     0,8%   0,7%   3,0%  2,2%    2,0%    1,8%  2,0%
 (%growth rate)
 GDP deflator                          1,3%   2,3%     1,3%     1,7%   0,7%   3,0%  5,3%    0,3%    2,1%  1,5%
 (%growth rate)



a. IfGDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating t'Data-YR fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMFresources.
e. Should indicate the level o f the govemment to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase inUS$/LCU denotes appreciation.

                                                      -32-
                                                                                          ANNEX c

                                  PRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENTCREDIT
                                                  SENEGAL
                                   OperationsPortfolio(IBRD/IDA and Grants)
                                            As ofFebruary2,2004
          Closed Loansand Credits: 107                OriginalAmount inUS$ Millions       Differencebetween
          Active Credits 18                                                                 Expectedand
                                                                                                Actual-
                                                                                             Disbursements
Proiect             Proiect Name             FY        IBRD   IDA GEF     Cancel  Undisb. Original  Formallv
                                                                                             I
  ID                                                                                                Revised
PO69198   Distance Learning Center           2000             2.1                   0.2    0.2
PO41567   Endemic Diseases                   1997           14.9                    7.5    7.1         3.0
PO74059   HIV/AIDS Prevention & Control      2002              30                  31.8    8.2
          (Map 11)
PO02369   Integrated Health Sector           1998              50                  20.3
          Development                                                                     20.0

PO41528   Long Term Water Sector             2001            125                   135.9  43.9
PO70541   Nutrition Enhancement              2002           14.7                    12.1   5.2
PO67498   Public Services Info-Systems       2000           10.1                    2.1
          Modernization                                         5                           1.7        1.7
PO51609   Private InvestmentPromotion        2003             46                   48.2    3.6
PO47319   Quality Education for All          2000              50                  20.1   -31.2
PO57996   National Rural Infrastructure      2000           28.5                    19.2   18.0        0.2

PO42056   SustainableParticipatory Energy    1997                     4.7           0.6
          Mgmt.                                                                             0.5        0.4
PO46768   SustainableParticipatory Energy    1997             5.2                   0.8
          Mgmt.                                                                             0.8        0.7
PO02366   Transport I1                       1999              90                  73.0    50.3
PO51610   Agr. Export Promotion              1998               8                    2.2    1.9        0.5
PO02367   Agr. Service& Producers            1999           27.4                    12.5
          Organizations                                                                    11.3        3.8
PO41566   Social Development Fund            2001              30                   26.0   19.8

PO02365   UrbanDevt. & Decentralization      1998              75                   16.9
          Program                                                                          15.4       11.4
PO55472   Urban Mobility Improvement         2000              70                   71.8
          Program                                                                          61.1
P002346   Water Sector                       1995            100                     8.7   22.3       15.7
Total                                                 0.00   777      4.7   0.00   509.9   260.1      37.4




     1BRI)IIDA *
          Total Disbursed(Active)               291.63
                of which has been repaid          0.0
          Total Disbursed(Closed)             1,630.77
                of which has been repaid        315.52
          Total Disbursed(Active+Closed)      1,922 40
                of which has been repaid        315.51
          Total Undisbursed(Active)            509.9
          Total Undisbursed(Closed)              0.00
          Total Undisbursed(Active-tClosed)     509.5

                                         -33 -
                                                                            ANNEX c

                     PRIVATESECTORADJUSTMENTCREDIT
                                      SENEGAL


                                 STATEMENTOFIFC's
                               HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                      As of 09130103
                                   InMillions USDollars

                                        Committed                   Disbursed
                                       IFC                    -IFC             -
FY Approval Company               Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1996197198  AEF SERT              0.00     0.00   0.00 0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
1980        BHS                   0.00     0.46   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.46  0.00   0.00
1999        Ciments du Sahel      16.06   2.26    2.81 0.00 16.06   2.26  2.81   0.00
1997        GTI Dakar             8.11     1.61   0.00     0  8.11  1.27  0.00   9.78
1981/88     ICs                   0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
1998        SEF Fanaicha          0.00     0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
2001        SEF Royal Saly        1.28     0.00   0.00  0.00  1.28  0.00  0.00   0.00



              Total Portfolio:   17.34    2.72   2.81     0  17.34 2.72   2.81      0

                                              -34-

                                                                                      ANNEX D

                        PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


                          Timetable ofKeyProjectProcessingEvents


Time taken to prepareproject

Time taken to prepareproject                      12months

Preparation                                       February 2003
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal                                         May 2003
Negotiations                                      May 2003 and February 2004
BoardPresentation                                 March2004
Effectiveness                                     June 2004




This report is inlarge part basedon preparatory work for the Private Investment PromotionProject
(PIPP), presented to the World Bank Board on May 20, 2003. Following the reception of the
formal Govemment request, project preparation was initiated on an accelerated basis in February
2003. The Credit was first negotiated in May 2003. Boardpresentation was delayed by delays in
attaining a Boardcondition. Following extensive discussionsbetween Govemment and the Bank, it
was decided that the condition pertainingto privatization of the groundnut processor would remain
part of the program, but would not be covered by the Credit. Accordingly, the Credit was
renegotiatedinFebruary 2004. A multi-disciplinary team from the World Bank Grouppreparedthe
project. Key team members included Mmes. Alliali (Sr. Counsel), Andress (postal reform), Savane
(PSD Specialist) and Jockiane (Program Assistant) and Messrs. Alikhani (Task Team Leader),
Badiane, Sarr and Toure (Edible Oil), Miovic (peer reviewer), Morisset (tax reform), Palacios
(pensionsreform).

                                                     - 3 5 -

                                                                                                ANNEX E
                           PRIVATESECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT

              PRIVATE SECTOR POLICY LETTER -DATED APRIL 3,2003
                                       (An unofficialTranslation)'


I. BACKGROUND

National economies are open to global competition reinforced by their regional, bilateral and
multilateral trade agreements. This international environment offers opportunities to support
private investments and trade. Since 1994, Senegal has implemented key reforms designed to
strengthen its economic and social development strategy, and to improve the business
environment, the competitiveness o f the economy, attract national and international private
investments, stimulate export growth and develop opportunities for employment.                        The
devaluation of 1994 in the WAEMU zone and the strategic decision to facilitate private
participation in the infrastructure sector also supported this strategy. To consolidate structural
reforms and achieve an even higher economic growth rate to eradicate poverty, Senegal
formulated its private sector development strategy based on a participatoryprocess involving: (a)
validation o f the strategy by stakeholders in 1999; (b) further revision o f the strategy during
2001-2002; and (c) adoption of a more comprehensive development strategy aimed at cutting
poverty inhalfby 2015.

In 1990, the modem private sector was comprised of approximately 1,000 companies, 264 of
which were in the industrial sector, 69 in the construction and public works sectors and 667 in
services (63 o f which were in the hotel industry and tourism).               Since 1995, the Senegalese
economy grew at a rate of 5 percent per annum. This i s a good indicator o f the private sector
performance. Notwithstanding the decline observed in 2002, the overall modern sector
contributes approximately 26 percent of the country's GDP versus 61 percent by the so-called
informal sector, and employs only 5 percent o f the workforce. This participation o f the private
sector in economic activities should not hide the fact that private sector initiatives face major
constraints, which prevent them from not only talung a more active role in creating and
accumulating wealth, but also in fighting poverty.                 Therefore, new reforms and a more
constructive publidprivate dialogue are crucial in completing the structural adjustment of the
private sector and inreinforcing its competitiveness.

11.     OBJECTIVES

The promotion o f the private sector and commercial activities i s at the core o f the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Creating wealth is one o f the major goals o f the PRSP, which
targets growth with following qualities: (i)strong enough to have a substantial and quantitative
impact on national and regional prevalence o f poverty; (ii)          relies on sectors having an important
and sustainable impact on improving income in rural and urban areas; and (iii)generates
employment, promotes investments and exports. In this context, the Government has identified
the promotion of private investment as the tool to stimulate higher growth and creating an equal
income distribution.

The Government's objective for the year 2003 - 2005 is to achieve an average per annual GDP
growth rate of 7 to 8 percent. This growth is associated with an investment rate of 22 percent.
Macroeconomic projections that establish the overall consistency of the strategy predict an
average per annum growth o f per capita GDP ranging from 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent, thus
extending access to economic opportunities and social services. Per capita income could double

10'.
   nginal inFrench, signed by the Minister o f Economy and Finance is on file

                                                -36-

within 15 years, therefore permittingto better distribute the fruits o f growth. These projections
rely on a series o f assumptions that foresee an increase o f public and private investments in
which volume and efficiency will be maximized. The achievement o f these macroeconomic
objectives requires a favorable framework for wealth creation laid out in the present Letter. Its
main instruments are the development o f infrastructure and human capital, investment climate
reform, deepening o f sector reforms, and the strengthening o f private sector capacities.

111.     STRATEGY

T o achieve these important objectives, the Government has identified a number o f measures to be
implemented through sectoral programs. These programs reinforce and complement results
already achieved and existing initiatives. The Government action plan consists o f the following
steps: (i)improving the efficiency o f State intervention; (ii)facilitating private sector
participation and reinforcing competitiveness;         (iii)promoting private investment and
implementing reforms ina number o f sectors supportingthe private sector; and (iv) strengthening
institutional and human capacities sustaining the private sector. Within the framework o f the
development strategy o f the private sector and the New Partnership for Africa's Development
(NEPAD), the fundamental objective of Senegal o f promoting private investment and accessing
foreign markets would be achieved through: (a) improving the business environment; (b)
promoting an efficient regulatory framework for private participatory initiative in financing and
developing infrastructure services; (c) implementing strategies to develop key sectors; (d)
implementing a viable support mechanism for the private sector; (e) promoting a better
integration in sub-regional and world economies; and (f) facilitating communication and policy
interface between the private and the public sector.

3.1. Improvement of the businessclimate

The Government and the private sector, in consultation with their developmental partners, have
adopted the following strategic actions aimed at improving the efficiency o f the state: (i)
simplification o f procedures and reduction o f delays and costs o f doing businesses; (ii)
                                                                                          reforming
the judicial system capacities to improve transparency, speed and accessibility to its services;
(iii)promoting exports, liberalizing trade, and increasing competition; (iv) adapting labor
legislation, implementing provisions designed to promote Senegal's competitiveness; (v)
continuing the privatization process; (vi) reforming public administration to improve services for
clients; and (vii) rationalizing and improving the tax environment for businesses.

3.1.l. Carrying out the simplificationof administrative procedures

Despite past efforts, recent studies have shown that procedures in many areas are still
complicated, generate incremental costs, and hinder private investments.           Therefore, it is
necessary to continue to simplify the administrative procedures, in order to stimulate private
investment.     More specifically, actions will be taken to improve the operation and the
performance o f public land, tax, and customs administrations. Inthis respect, the Government
will continue to work closely with FIAS' services to simplification procedures and establish a
long-term framework to reduce administrative barriers on private investment. This simplification
plan i s in the annex o f the present letter. Its implementation i s expected, in the short-term, to
reduce the delays by 50 percent.

3.1.2. StrengtheningJudicial capacities

Private investments and markets can best be developed in an environment governed by a set o f
rules that are clear, stable, and respected, and where effective competition is present. The legal
framework should guarantee private property rights and support economic activity. Inaddition,
consistency in the enforcement o f these rules and their effective application are essential to

                                                -37-

ensure competition and support market systems. These should be guaranteed by a fair and
developed judicial system, independent from the executive and legislative branches. A Judicial
sectoral expenditure program will be defined in 2003.            I t s implementation will allow the
modernization efforts o f the judicial institutions to continue, and promote access to judicial
services through (i) increasing the human, physical and financial resources o f the judicial system,
(ii) adapting legislation to business' needs, and (iii) supporting efforts to promote business law.
The Government will continue its efforts to harmonize legislations within the framework o f its
regional and international agreements and in particular with WAEMU, OHADA and the WTO.
It will also promote alternative dispute resolution settlement mechanisms (arbitration, mediation,
and conciliation), in addition to legislation against money laundering which will be developed
and enacted.

3.1.3. Promoteexport, support liberalizationprocess, and increasecompetition
The basic principle o f trade liberalization and the strengthening o f competition are related to
lifting quantitative restrictions on imports, encouraging an increase in exports, and lifting
restrictions on investments. The actions needed to promote exports, are as follows: (i)     encourage
existing businesses to enter new export markets; (ii)     promote private investments in activities
related to exports; and (iii) develop a consistent strategy to promote exports.

3.1.4 Carrying out the adjustmentof the environment andwork conditions

Among other reforms, the Government i s planning to improve the regulatory and legislative
frameworks for labor and to modify them to meet the requirements o f a competitive open
economy. The Labor Code was adopted in 1997, as a result o f a consultative process between
the Government, the employers, and the workers. The implementation o f reforms provided by
the code to promote productivity are hinderedby the non-application o f a number o f regulations
relative to the flexibility o f work, remunerationo f labor, and classification o f professions, which
has been implemented only in the hotel industry. With respect to pensions, the Government i s
committed to promote, on a participatory basis, fair and sustainable retirement systems and social
assistance. Inthe short-term, it is also implementing parametric reforms o f retirement plans. In
the long-term, the possibility o f systemic reforms and o f implementing institutional reforms of
existing systems will be envisaged. Inorder to promote intensive labor sectors, the Government
and social partners will examine the possibilities to support job creation through special regimes,
such as free zone enterprises.

3.1.5. Carrying out of the privatizationprocessandthe economic regulation

The implementation o f the privatization process and economic regulation should be undertaken
after implementing a number o f complementing measures. These would facilitate private sector
participation in infrastructures structures and would allow Senegal to benefit from the integration
and globalization process. In this context, different concessions such as BOT, BOO or BOOT
will have priority and will be subject to an appropriate legal framework in 2003. In 2002, the
Government passed a bill on the regulation framework for concessions. In order to adequately
supervise the public or private infrastructure services, the regulation function will be
strengthened.    To serve the interests o f all parties involved (consumers, investors, and the
Government) regulatory sectoral institutions equipped with sufficient material resources were
established in the energy and telecommunication sectors. In addition, other functions such as
postal regulation will take effect in 2003. As for the rest of the economy, the commission on
competition will operate infull partnership with the consumer movement.

3.1.6. Continue simplificationand rationalizationof businesstaxation

The Government plans to integrate tax incentives within common law. The reforms o f business
and households taxation will be carried out according to four fundamental principles: (i)

                                                 - 3 8 -

widening the tax base; (ii)rationalization o f instruments and reduction o f one-third o f the
marginal tax rate; (iii)neutrality o f internal taxation between regional products and imports; and
(iv) the promotion o f tax complicance.       The simplification o f the tax system was initiated
following the currency devaluation. It was carried out with the harmonization o f indirect taxation
on the WAEMU side when common external tariffs were introduced in 1998. An 18 percent
VAT rate was adopted in September 2001. Inthe course o f calendar year 2003, the Government
is planning to optimize business taxes while promoting investments. These reforms should
stimulate investments through the General Tax Code.              And finally, some taxes such the
vocational training, the tax on tourism will be revisedand reallocated.

3.1.7 Improvement of the quality of labor through professionaltraining

Investing in human capital and particularly inhealth, basic education, professional and technical
training i s crucial to tackling the challenge o f productivity and growth. Ten-year plans and
sectoral programs are being implemented to achieve improved health coverage, universal school
enrolment, and better develop and channel professional training. To achieve immediate results,
emphasis i s placed on developing professional and technical training in order to make the quality
o f labor meet investors' needs. Particularly, the Government will encourage the private sector to
play a key role in the design and supervision o f the Professional Development Education Fund
and inthe reallocation o f the training fee (CFCE) to support business competitiveness.

These different options aimed at improving the efficiency o f State intervention are inline with the
overall approach o f enhancing the quality o f public service. Within the implementation o f the
national program o f good govemance, the administration should significantly improve its
capabilities in management and service delivery, in order to adapt to change and better address
the increasing competitive and global economic environment. The new role o f the administration
requires the adoption a reformprogram that rests on: (i)    a strategic vision based on redefining the
administration role which calls for a permanent consultative process with the administration; and
(ii) strengthening individual and institutional capacities, particularly inkey administrations.

3.2. Establishment of infrastructure services

Within the private sector promotion framework, the development o f infrastructure services will
be achieved around two key axes: promoting partnership between the public and private sector;
and engaging the private initiative in financing and managing infrastructure services by
implementing a technical and economical independent regulatory framework, inspired by the
internationalbest practice.

3.2.1. Improvement of the quality and coverage of physicalinfrastructures

The direction to follow in order to ensure quality and coverage o f the physical infrastructures i s
outlined as follows:

     0   Complete and consolidate the results o f the ongoing transport sector program.


     0   Proceed with the liberalizationand privatization of the energy sector.


     0   Ensure a sound and sustainable water resource management.


     0   Implement policies necessary to secure the privileged position o f Senegal in the area o f
         telecommunication.


     0   Promote the development of rural infrastructures.

                                                 -39-

    0    Include the private sector in the financing o f infrastructure through BOT, BOO, BOOT
         models.

3.2.2. Implementation of a new telecommunication sectoral policy

Aware o f the importance telecommunication services and o f the role it plays in social and
economic development, in 2001 Senegal adopted a new telecommunication code. This reform
facilitated the implementation o f a regulatory authority in the telecommunication sector and
established a legislative (legal) framework that promotes a fair and effective competition.
Market liberalization commitments given by Senegal to the WTO in 1997 seeks to maximize the
development potential o f the sector outlined by the 2001 reform. The Government o f Senegal
has recently initiated a participatory process o f proposing a new sectoral policy which i s
expected to be finalized, at the latest, inJune 2003. The new telecommunication policy is being
formulated around the following major objectives:


    0    Significantly increase the supply o f telecommunication services and promote access to
         telecommunication services to as many people as possible and particularly inrural areas.


    0    Provide a good quality o f service at competitive prices, tailored to the needs o f
         residential clients and to the private and public sector.


    0    Promote telecommunication services as the crucial economic sector ensuring the growth
         o f a competitive economy integrated in a global market.

To achieve these goals, the strategy would rest onthe following initiatives:

         Strengthen the liberalization o f telecommunication and further open the competitiveness
         o f different market segments.      In this context, the Government of Senegal is also
         planning to award a new license to a private operator.

         Reinforce regulation capacities o f the Agence de Re'gulation des Te'le'communication and
         development and monitoring capabilities o f the sector policy within the governmental
         authority responsible for telecommunicationservices.

         Adopt regulations o f the new telecommunication code and other statutory instruments
         allowing the sector to initiate reforms on strong foundations and to remain dynamic.

         Promote the participation and the investment o f the private sector, particularly with the
         state's disengagement from SONATEL, once all conditions for its success have been
         met.

     Implementing a challenging policy, following the creation o f a transparent and competitive
funding mechanism, ensuring universal access to telecommunication services, particularly in
rural areas. A universal access fund will created and initially be supported by funding from the
World Bank (50 percent) and by a contribution from the Senegalese Government with income
generated, for example, by the new license.

3.3. Implementationof appropriate strategies inthe productionsector

Inorder to encourage signs o fsustainedrecovery o fkey areas andthe emergence o f areas o fhigh
potential, the Government has decided to implement an overall strategy supported by sectoral
programs. The specific focus areas are agriculture, fishing, textile industry, craftsmanship,
tourism, the music industry, information technology, pensions, postal service, and the finance
sector.

                                               -40-


Agriculturecontributes to nearly 17percent of the GDP formation and to 21 percent of exports.
The development and the diversification of the agricultural production depend on access to
national and regional markets, and to opportunities provided by the international demand for
quality export production.     Specifically, this will require to overcome the weahesses o f
agriculture by supporting private irrigation services, intensifying and modernizing agriculture,
increasing and diversifying farm income, strengthening the role of peasant organization, their
responsibility and their participation to determiningpolicies, and to opening up rural areas. In
regard to the groundnut sector that represents one o f the main export products o f Senegal, the
reforms will be undertaken to (i)improve the regulatory and the financial framework and to
eliminate trade distortions, (ii)promote the privatization of the Senegalese national company
(SONACOS- Sociiti Nationale de Commercialisation des Oldagineux), (iii)implement
additional reforms related to diversification o f production in the area of groundnut production
and to promote the groundnut production export quality, in particular, and (iv) reduce the sector
arrears through a financial restructuringprogram.

The fishing industry is one of the major sectors providing hard currency to Senegal. It
contributes almost 38 percent of exports. In the long run, this contribution will slow down
because of the over-exploitation of fish resources. The actions taken will allow an efficient and
effective management of access to resources to achieve a long-term preservation of these
resources thanks to a reduction of the fishing intensity.       Harmonization o f the regulatory
framework o f the exploitation of fishresources and those o f its next-door neighbors (Mauritania,
Guinea, Guinea Bissau, etc) will allow preserving the resources along the coastline. A sector
study will thusbeundertaken andawardof licenses will bemademore transparent.

For the development of the mining industry, a favorable regulatory environment will be
implementedthrough the adoption of a miningcode during2003. Inorder to prevent an adverse
impact o f the miningsector, this Code together with the new the environment Code, will include
measuresto preservingthe environment.

The competitiveness of the industry and craft sectors should increase significantly. The
strategy calls for supporting small businesses intheir efforts to modernize and adapt technology,
improve the quality o f their products, and their position in regional and international export
markets, and will control their costs.

The services sector will play an important role inachievingthe strategy's objectives. The first,
being its potential in terms of contributing to growth, exports, and job creation. The second,
beingits role incontribution to increasing the competitiveness o f smallbusiness inother sectors.

Promotion of the music industry, where Senegal has a comparative advantage. The importance
of art and culture has been established in the PRSP. The development o f artistic and cultural
products for the regional, local, and international markets will significantly contribute to
economic growth and poverty reduction. Senegal continues to have a leadingrole inthe "World
Music" scene and has assets capable of generating income and creatingjobs to fight poverty in
both urban and rural areas. However, today the majority o f artists cannot live comfortably. To
achieve its potential, the Senegalese music industry faces many obstacles. By end o f 2003, the
Government will undertake a full review o f its legislation and legal system with regards to the
protection of copyrights and related rights, and for the management o f royalties by the artists
themselves. This comprehensive review will lay out the optimal conditions for proposing new
laws and a newjudicial system that will take into consideration the emerging technologies (such
as "E-commerce"), and ensuring respect o f copyright inaccordance with international laws.

A particular emphasis will be put on tourism, which will continue to be a leading sector, a
position that goes beyond its economic role as it conveys the image o f Senegal abroad. The

                                                  -41 -

implementation o f recommendations derived from the consultative process on tourism will
improve Senegal's competitive position. The major directions set for tourism are to reinforce the
institutional capacities o f this industry, design a development program for new tourist sites,
through private/public partnership, and develop tourism infrastructure.           T o achieve these
objectives, products need to be diversified (while consolidating resort areas), access to land
facilitated, and development o f sites and promotion activities need to be envisaged. The private
sector's participation i s considered at the institutional level, and will play a key role in
investments strategies. The possibility o f reallocating funds from tourism taxes towards the
sector development will be considered.

In the postal industry, the Government has drafted a sector policy letter for the Socidtd
naitonale de la poste outlining its business strategic plan. The success o f a postal reform relies
on improving governance and clarifying the relationships betweenthe Government and the postal
service. The Government outlined the its strategy for developing the postal service inthe policy
letter for the postal sector.

The implementation o f the strategic plan presented in that letter will allow: (i)  improvements o f
the overall performance o f the postal industry by slowly openingupmarketsto the private sector;
(ii)reforms o f the legal and regulatory framework and reinforcement o f the sectoral regulatory
function; (iii) preservation o f the individual's right to communicate through an appropriate
funding mechanism o f the universal postal industry; (iv) turning the historical postal operator
into a small efficient modem business by implementing a strategic plan allowing it to survive ina
competitive environment; and (v) promotion o f a sustainable development of postal financial
service through subsidiary companies to provide a larger part o f the population with access to
savings, credit, insurance, and use o f fixed savings for private investment. At the same time, the
Government will continue its effort to strengthen economic regulatory capacities o f the postal
industry.

Pension reforms already in place are aimed at sustainably solving the problem of structural
deficit that the Fonds National de Retraite (FNR) had previously faced and to increasing
coverage o f IPRES. Deep reforms are necessary to provide the population with access to a
pension system based on solidarity, fairness, efficiency and sustainability. Therefore, pensions
will be subject to parametric reforms so as to ensure their long-term sustainability and improve
pension service for the elderly. In doing so, we will ensure the restructuring o f these institutions
and the strengthening o f their capacities to manage and periodically measure the performance
and reporting o fpensionplans under their responsibility.

Following these reforms, the next step would be to implement an institutional framework that
would support the introduction o f pension plans through capitalization, while avoiding an
increase in the contribution rate. A feasibility study on the merging o f IPRES and FNR will be
undertaken. It requires reforming existing retirement plans and promoting efficient regulatory
and monitoring structures. The implementation o f these objectives i s two fold: to create and
consolidate opportunities, for a larger part o f the population, to benefit from decent pension plans
and ensure a controlled contribution o f pay savings to the development o f local financial market.

The financialsector is expected to benefit fi-om the development o f fully funded pensions. The
stability o f the banking sector since 1989-91 has contributed to building a stronger and more
reliable foundation and to reinforce competitiveness, diversification o f banking service, demand,
and more flexibility o f interest rates. It is also important to strengthen the regulatory framework
o f banking activities by reviewing commercial laws regarding the development o f financial
markets, by addressing the problem o f delinquent borrowers, and by reforming taxation and
financial transactions.

                                               -42 -

3.4. Implementation of a viable process to reinforce public service commitment to business
promotion

In order to take advantage of synergy among important political and institutional reforms
dedicated to improving the business environment and support small businesses, the Government
i s planning to put in place institutional measures that are focused, coherent, efficient, benefiting
from human and financial resources and operating according to an approach based on results. In
terms o f support to small businesses and as a result from the consensus reached between the
public and the private sector, the main functions are as follows: (i)      promote investment and
export; (ii)promote productivity, standardization, and quality; (iii)  promote local products; (iv)
provide advice-support to small businesses; and (v) facilitate access to financing.

3.4.1. Promotion of investment and exports

3.4.1. I.Investments

The recommendations brought forward in the framework,of this activity resulted inthe creation
in 2000 of I`Agence nationale chargde de la Promotion des Investissements et des Grands
Travaux (MIX).The decree no 200.562 dated July 10, 2000 on the creation, organization and
the operation of MIX,sets for this agency the following responsibilities: look for and identify
investors; promote Senegal, as the investment target; host and join investors; facilitate
administrative initiatives and procedures; present to the Government a proposal to improve the
business' environment; make trade and economic information readily available; promote public-
private partnership; facilitate the implementation of major infrastructures works. APIX i s also a
member of the AGOA Committee and is responsible for communicating trade opportunities
made available by this American law. APE'Sactivities are expected to leadto the establishment
of 10,000 permanent jobs by 2008.

The Government will continue to provide APIX with its institutional support through the
implementation of a business development plan and the carrying out o f strategic studies on
infrastructure, necessary to promote the private sector, develop, and strengthen the Ministry o f
Foreign Affairs' and embassies' capabilities. This will permit them to better market Senegal's
label and attract direct investments.       In order to make the Senegalese diplomacy serve
investment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be helpedin setting up a computer network
serving embassiesand allowing them to play an intermediary role with investors.

3.4.1.2. Exports

Dispersion o f responsibilities characterizes the export promotion arrangements in place, and in
general, this explains lack of results. Therefore, the quality and support to the private sector in
the promotion of exports can be maximized through rationalization and coordination of existing
mechanisms through well-defined performance objectives and missions. At the operational level,
this rationalization will translate into the development o f a unique structure for promoting
exports, whose objective is to provide information on trade, assist economic bodies, and facilitate
and promote export transactions. Similarly, new initiatives are encouraged for the promotion of
local products following similar initiatives or similar campaigns, "buy made in Senegal
products".

3.4.2. Promotionof quality and standardization

The improvement of quality, o f which standardization i s one of the many instruments, cannot be
ignored as a major concern in the context of improving global competitiveness of national
economies.      The mechanism to be reinforced through I'Association Skneguluise de
Normalisation (ASN), to significantly improve quality, should serve the following functions:

                                                 -43 -

improve the standardization system, implement a reliable metrology system, and develop
certification mechanisms incompliance with standards (promotion o f a Senegalese label).

3.4.3 A Better coordinationof financing initiatives

Based on lessons learned, the Govemment, with the collaboration and the support of its
development partners will implement reforms to: (i)increase financial depth; (ii)launch new
financial products; (iii) put into place credits to encourage business; and (iv) implement credits
tailored for rural areas, and (SMEBMI), hotel industry,tourism or similar professions etc.

3.4.4 Rationalization of support mechanismfor SMEs

The promotion o f SMEs i s central to the recent creation o f the Agencyfor the Enhancement and
Development of SME (ADEPME). In general, to promote SMEs, it is also important to
streamline the mechanisms already in place and make them functional, efficient and viable. In
this respect, the SODIDA (land development agency) privatization process will be accelerated,
inclusion o f the Bourse Nationale de Sous-Traitance et de Partenariat Industriel (BNSTP)
within the Agency will undergo a feasibility study and will benefit from a new support policy to
businesses relative to access to space facilities.

3.4.5. Harmonize funding to support public service missions under structures governed by
efficiencyand results

The Govemment will ensure that the executing mechanism o f public service missions for the
promotion o f private sector's activities meet the following requirements: (i)allocate functions
and finance missions according to business community's needs; (ii)be streamlined, seek
synergies, consistency and complementarity at different layers; (iii) be independent with decision
malung power; (iv) be sustainable at the institutional and financial level; (v) keep Government
institutions efficient and focused to enable them to accomplish fully their supervision and
advisory missions by respecting a balance between public and private representation; (vi) allow a
fair access to their services at the national level; and (vii) implement service contracts with the
Govemment based on operational plans, performance standards, and adequate resources.

To ensure the sustainability o f structure supporting the private sector, the Government i s
committed to exploring, jointly with stakeholders, the possibility o f adopting appropriate
measures, including non-financial compensation, through asset transfers and capitalization or
financial participation o f the private sector.     In addition, a measure to be considered is to
partially reallocate the Contribution Forfaitaire a la Charge de I'Employeur (CFCE) that goes to
a matching-grant fund made available to businesses that wish to strengthen their technical and
management capabilities. This fund will, therefore, represents a viable response to extemal
structural assistance needs o f SMEs. The fund will also encourage support institutions, labor and
professional organization to act as intermediaries and facilitate private sector access.

The strengthening o f small business capacities relies on its leaders to work hard to reinforce
internal functions and their adaptability to universal rule o f management to better adjust to a
national and intemational environment characterized by an increased competitiveness. In this
respect, the support mechanism and labor organizations will have a stronger role to play in the
support they will have to provide to business leaders. The introduction o f a social Charter in
2002, offers to all business partners, such as the Govemment, management, and labor unions, a
potential performing framework enabling the promotion o fperformance and quality.

                                                -44-

STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION

In its conception and implementation, the Development Strategy of the private sector remains
consistent with the Government fundamental policy with regard to Senegal's participation inthe
sub-regional and global economies, to the protection o f the environment, to communication,
collaboration, and coordination betweenthe public and the private sector.

4.1. Participation in theglobal and sub-regional economy

Senegal has always played an active role in the construction o f the regional integration within
WAEMU and the CEDEAO and the Organization for African Union, which became Africa
Union in 2002. Its leading role was recently illustrated by the creation and the promotion o f
NEPAD. To maintain its leading role, the country has to develop a performing communication
infrastructure between itself and other countries and has to strengthen the institutional framework
to allow the private sector to participate inthe regional integration process. The strengthening o f
human and infrastructure capital should result in the identification o f better integration
conditions and particularly those that proved to be successful inthe global economy. Similarly, a
development strategy o f the private sector will be implemented within the international
agreements o f which, Senegal, is a signatory.

4.2. Public- private sector consultations

Consultations between the Government, labor and professional organizations will continue in
order to: (i)establish a dynamic partnership between the private sector and the Government; (ii)
maintain a proper framework to acknowledge and identify the difficulties and problems that the
private sector is facing; (iii)take shared decisions in order to improve the economic and social
environment; and (iv) establish a dialogue with the different partners. At first, it would be
appropriate to maintain a technical cooperation between the operational levels o f Government
and private sector representatives. At the ministerial level, technical committees have to be
established in order to periodically examine the problems that hinders private sector initiative.
The experience o f the previous Focus Group on Competitiveness and Growth should be
integrated in the future so as to identify the problems requiring immediate attention, reach an
agreement between the public and the private sector on appropriate solutions, and ensure their
implementation.

The inaugural meeting o f the Presidential Investors' Council took place inNovember 2002. The
Focus groups created as a follow up on the conclusion o fthe first Council meeting also offer new
opportunities in defining a new operational framework which will evaluate, implement,
supervise, and re-evaluate after the implementation o f proper measures aimed at improving the
business environment and the competitiveness o f the private sector. The priority o f investors
seem to be the simplification o f procedures on investment, business tax reform, improvement o f
mobility inDakar, and o f other economic stimulus that can be offered to investors.

The spirit o f partnership, which i s at the core o f the development strategy o f the private sector,
also determines the composition o f the private sector supervision and the orientation o f its
support structures. This spirit is necessary to steer the strategy, and the programs and projects
therein. It is strategically important for the implementation o f the development strategy o f the
private sector that, on a yearly basis, a consultative forum invigorates this partnership and
provides a venue for assessing the achievements realized by existing structures. Finally, it i s
necessary to have access to means o f communication and to information on economic and social
issues in order to keep all stakeholder initiatives focused on the development strategy sector
objectives.

                                             -45 -

                                                                                       ANNEX F
                        PRIVATE SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT

                   SENEGALPSACPOLICYMATRIX AND INDICATORS

                                           Ta Reform
  Objective/Policy         Current Status            Actions            Performance Indicators
     reform area
1.1. Eliminate tax-     FIAS study (2001)     Rationalize tax         METRfor industry
induced distortions,    provides basis for    system and reduce       reduced to 28%.
stimulate               reforms. Special      certain taxes, while    Tax exemptions
investments and         committee has been    at the same time        eliminated from the
implement level         established to        eliminating             investment and/or other
playing field for       finalize action plan  exemptions.             codes; special
businesses.             and steer the                                 arrangements may still
                        reforms.                                      prevail for export
                                                                      activities.
                                                                      Byend-2005 revenue base
                                                                      from taxes expanding and
                                                                      revenues increasing.
1.2. Rationalize user   Government has        Reduce CFCE and         CFCEreducedto 3%.
fees and ensure they    committed to          reallocate it to        Matching-grant fund
are allocated for the   implement the         private sector          become financially
purposes intended.      reforms inits PSD     capacity building.      sustainable.
                        strategy letter.
                                    EdibleOi Sector Reform
   Objective/Policy        Current Status
     reformarea       II
2.1. Government         Privatization
exits the sector as an  advisers hired in                             private operator.
operator.               March2003.
2.2. Implement          Sector policy letter  Action plan to          Distortions reduced (more
sector policy           and related action    eliminateheduce         detailed indicatorswill be
reforms.                plan being drafted    trade, domestic and     developed once the action
                        and will be finalized financial sector        plan i s ready)
                        by mid-may.           distortions             Inthe contextof2.1 and
                                              implemented.            2.2 above, Govemment
                                                                   I liabilities in
                      I                                                             the sector are
                                                                       settled.

   Objective/Policy   I    Current Status            Actions            Performance Indicators
     reformarea                                                     [I
3.1. Improve legal      Draft postal law has  Adopt new postal        Provisions o f law
and regulatory          beenprepared.         law.                     implemented, including
environment             Sector strategy                                lower the monopoly
                        policy letter signed                           threshold to 500 grams
                        on April 17, 2003.                             and all operators licensed.

                                              Transfer regulatory      ART effectively regulates
                                              authority to ART,        sector
3.2. Clarify and        Recapitalization      Performance              Performance contract
formalize               scheme and formal     contract inplace.        indicators, including: (i)
relationship between    agreement to cancel                            number o f "postal outlets'

                                            -46-

La Poste and            cross-debts being                         doubled; (ii) intemet
Govemment               finalized.                                access in 100post offices;
                                                                  and (iii) 50% increase in
                                                                  productivity interms of
                                                                  lettedemployee.
3.3. Improve            Subsidy for "public  Create a separate    Subsidiary created.
financial and           good"                subsidiary for La    By2005: tumover is 20%
institutional viability responsibilities     Poste's financial    higher,number o f
o fPostal Services.     includedin2003       services.            accounts and savings
                        budget.                                   collectedincreasedby
                                                                  50%.
                                                                  Regular audits are
                                                                  undertaken and are
                                                                  unqualified.
                                                                  Inthe contextof3.1, 3.2,
                                                                  and 3.3 above,
                                                                  Government liabilities in
                                                                  the sector are settled,
                                                                  cross-debts are cancelled,
                                                                  andthe post office is
                                                                  sustainable.
                                        Pens nReform
  ObjectiveRolicy          Current Status           Actions         Performance Indicators
     reformarea
4.1. Enhance            Sector strategy      Establishnew         Commission inplace,
Corporate               prepared, covering   commission to        operational and meeting
governance.             parametric and       oversee pensions     periodically.
                        systemic reforms.    system.              Investmentpolicy adhered
                                             Adoption by P R E S  to and audits unqualified.
                                             o fnew investment
                                             policy and
                                             processes.
4.2. Rationalize        See Above.           Proposal for         Pensions scheme
schemes.                                     consolidation and/or consolidatedlintegrated.
                                             integrationof
                                             schemes developed
                                             and implemented.
4.3. Allow for          See Above.           Privatepension       Legal framework for
private provision.                           policy developed.    private provision inplace.
4.4. Complete           Plan to resolve      Settle arrears to    Inthecontextof4.1 and
financial               arrears expected to  PRES.                4.2 above, Government
restructuringo f        be finalized by mid-                      liabilities to P R E S are
PRES.                   Mav 2003.                                 settled.

                                                    -47-

                                                                                                        ANNEX G

                                                                                                            Senegal

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        I982   1992   2001   2002
Domesticprices
(% change)
Consumer prices                          17,3    0,o    3,O    2,2
ImplicitGDP deflator                     9,3     0,6    23     2,6
Government finance
(% of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                          17,9  18,9    17,8  18,7  r'          97    98     99       L      0,     d21
Current budget balance                   -3,5    2.6    2 5    5 7
Overall surplus/deficlt                  -7,2   -2,6   -3,9   -2.7             -GDP      deflator   -CPI            I
TRADE
                                        1982   1992   zoo1   2002
(US$ millions)                                                      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports(fob)                       502    828   1009   1065   zow,                                            I
 Groundnut                               128     66    112    147
 Fish                                     56     60     35     37
 Manufactures                            182    190    250    250
Total imports(cif)                       984  1355    1678   1847
 Food                                    235    363    359    409
 Fueland energy                          292    150    283    278
                                                                                                                     I
 Capitalgoods                            137    175    283    313
                                                                              ffi
Export price index (1995=100)             91     93     79     81                  97   98     99      w    01

Importprice Index(1995=100)               80     69     93     97                    Exports         Himports
Termsof trade (1995=700)                 113    104     85     84                                                O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1982   I992   2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                         Current account balanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services            892  1404    1409   1486
Imports of goods and services           1277  1851    1852   1946     *O T
Resource balance                        -385   -447    -443  -460

Net income                              -116   -133     -88    -92
Netcurrenttransfers                       10     34     305   320

Current account balance                 -491   -545    -226  -232

Financingitems (net)                     365    566     327   359
Changes in net reserves                  126     -20   -100  -127
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$millions)      25      22    584   693
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US$J         328,6 264,7   733,O  718,6

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                           :omposltlon of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     1861  3 634   3 576  3 559
  IBRD                                    79      62      0      0
  IDA                                    166    873   1430   1490

Total debt service                       123    210     251    224
  IBRD                                      8     19      2      2
  IDA                                       2      9     30     32

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                        #REF  #REF    #REF   #REF
  Officialcreditors                      263    249      74     84
  Privatecreditors                          7    -31      0      0
  Foreigndirect investment                15             40     30
  Portfolioequity                           0      0      0      0

Wodd Bank program
  Commitments                             19      44      0      0      ,-IBRD                          E Bilateral
  Disbursements                           26      97    129     70      ,         D Other rnultiiateral
                                                                                   -                    F Private
  Principalrepayments                       3     16     21     23      ; IMF
                                                                         -- IDA                         G Short-term
                                                                                                         ---
  Net flows                               23      81    108     47
  Interest payments                         7     12     11     11
  Net transfers                           16      70     97     36


Development Economics                                                                                         4/24/03

                                                                   -48 -

                                       Senegal at a glance                                                                         Sf26103

                                                                      Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Saharan         Low-
                                                        Senegal     Africa income            Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year &W?$                                     10.0     688         2,495
GNi per capita {A;Ji/am&M 1WI                                 460      450          430                       Lifeexpectancy

GNi {Atkcme&%& 1WiWkwt                                         4.6     306         1,072                            T
Average annual growth. 1996-02
Population fisp                                                         2.4           1.9
Laborforce fl$                                                 2.7
                                                                        2.5          2.3      GNI

Most recent estimate[latest gear available.1996-02]                                           Per
                                                                                              capita
Poverty fli'ofpq&&"mathd~<u~t
Urbanpopulation fi;'dt&dmakt                                   45        33           30
Lifeexpectancy at birth [ueast                                 52        46           59                            I
Infantmortality {~l&%hMt&,'                                    68       105           81
Childmalnutrition fi;'dc?%Wm&.ft                               22                                  Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source fi;'dpqWakt?t                         58           76
Illiteracy p d&ackwfit                                                   37           37
Grossprimary enrollment pd-"Aqqepqwam?t                        66        86           95
   Male                                                        71        92          103
   Female                                                      57        80           87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1982       1992       2001        2002
GDP (1WMhqt                                        2.6         6 0      4.6          4.9      Economicratios'

Gross domestic investmentlGOP                     12.2        14.8      18.1        21.0
Exportsof goods andserviceslGDP                   33.0       23.3      30.4          31.1                          Trade
Gross domestic savingslGOP                        -2.5         7.4      8.6          11.2
Gross national savingslGDP                        -6.6         58      13.2         13.0                             T

Current account baiancelGDP                       -19.0       -9.0     -4.9          -8.0
InterestpaymentslGDP                                1.5        0.8       1.2          1.3     Domestic                          Investment
Total debtlGDP                                    72.1        608      74.7                   savings
Total debt servicefexports                        127         133       14.1
Present value of debtfGDP                             ..      382      46.4         44.6
Present value of debtfexports                               1459      122.0        124.8
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
/Mwmd~wM&t                         1982-92 1992-02         2001      2002 2002-06

GDP                                      2.3       4.6         5 6       1.5          6.3
GDP percapita                           -0.5        18         2.9       -1.1         3.6
Exportsof good5 and services              1.7       81         6.7      6.7           2.7


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                1982
p;d q j                                                    1992       2001        2002        Growth of investment and GDP [ X I

Agriculture                                       21.7        18.9     19.6          19.6      50
Industry                                          15.0        18.8     20.6         20.6
   Manufacturing                                  10.4        12.5     13.0          13.0       0

Services                                          63.3        62.2     59.8         59.8      -50

Private consumption                               84.3        77.2     76.9         77.6     -io0
Generalgovernment consumption                     18.2        15.4     14.5          11.2
Importsof goods andservices                       47.7        30.7     40.0         40.9                    --GDI         -GDP


                                             1982-92 1992-02          2001        2002
/MWmd-wWM                                                                                 I   Growth of erpQrt5and imports [XI            I
Agriculture                                         1.4        2.3      7.6        -18.5
Industry                                           3.4         6.2       6.1         10.1
  Manufacturing                                    3.6         5.4       5.1         10.2
Services                                           2.2         4.8      4.8           4.8
Private consumption                                 1.7        3.5       7.0          1.2
Generalgovernment consumption                      2.4         5.7     21.7           1.2
Gross domestic investment                          4.5        -5.7    -46.8          -1.3
Imports of goods and Services                       1.3        2.4       1.4          6.7 I            *)---Exports      -Imports         I
Note: 2002 dataare preliminaryestimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators inthe country[in bold] comparedwith its income-group average. If data aremissing.thediamondwill
   be incomplete.


