Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16229-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3310-ME)
December 31, 1996
Mexico Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 3, 1996)
Currency Unit     =      Mexican New Peso (N$)
US$1.00           =     N$7.89
N$1 million       =     US$126,743
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CUD                 Convenio de Desarrollo Social
(Social Development Agreement)
GEF                 Global Environment Facility
COPLADE             Comisi6n de Planeaci6n para el Desarrollo Estatal
(Commission for State Development Planning)
DRD                 Decentralization and Regional Development
PIDER               Programa Integral para el Desarrollo Rural
(Integrated Rural Development Program)
SEDESOL             Social Development Secretariat
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
Vice-President:          S.J. Burki
Director:                0. Lafourcade
Manager, Sector
Leadership Group:        M. Baxter
Staff Member:           A. Silverman, Institutional
Development Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ...................................................................................................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY . ....................                              .                  ii-vi
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                 .       .        1
A. Background .1
B. Project Objectives  1....I
Linkage with predecessor PIDER projects and sector studies       .2
Complexity of project design                      .3
Inadequate institutional mandates and incentives            .3
Municipio investment program                        .4
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                      .4
Overview                                 .4
Municipal funds and Escuela digna                     .6
State investment program                         .8
Environmental protection                         .9
Poverty targeting .10
Monitoring system .10
Least cost solutions .10
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .11
Factors not subject to government control .11
Factors subject to govemrnment control .11
Factors subject to SEDESOL control .11
E. Project Sustainability.                                                     12
F. Bank Performance .12
Preparation and appraisal .12
Implementation .13
G. Borrower performance .13
H. Assessment of outcome .14
I. Future operations .14
J. Key lessons learned .15
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ....................................                          16
Appendix A. Borrower's contribution          .................................... 30
This doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otlherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Decentralization and
Regional Development Project in Mexico, for which loan 3310-ME in the amount of
US$350 million equivalent was approved on June 26, 1991 and made effective on
December 17, 1991. The loan was closed as planned on December 31, 1995. It was fully
disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place on August 14, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Andrea Silverman of the Natural Resource Management
and Rural Poverty Division (LA2NR), Country Department II, Latin America and
Caribbean Region, with the assistance of Mark Cackler (LA2NR). It was cleared by Rudy
Van Puymbroeck of the Legal Department, and reviewed by Michael Baxter, Chief,
LA2NR, and Kreszentia Duer, Projects Advisor, LA2DR. It was finalized by the Sector
Leadership Group for the Mexico Department.
The ICR is based on findings of field visits, discussions with government officials
and a review of the project file. The borrower commented on the draft report and prepared
its own evaluation of the project, a summary of which is attached as Appendix A to this
report. Among the other documents reviewed for this report were the Project Completion
Report for the Mexico Integrated Rural Development Project -- PIDER III (Loan 2043-
ME), December 11, 1990, and the Mexico Strategy Proposal for Regional/Rural
Development in the Disadvantaged States, May 22, 1989.






MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Decentralization and Regional Development (DRD) Project (Loan 3310-ME)
was designed to finance elements of a broad based multi-sector approach to address the
problems of poverty in four poor states as part of the Government's poverty alleviation
program, Solidarity. The Solidarity program, initiated by the Salinas administration in
1989, was a collection of programs that were implemented through a partnership of federal,
state and local governments, and communities using matching grant resources.1 Solidarity's
annual expenditures reached US$2.2 billion in 1994, the last year of the Salinas
administration, with the DRD project financing specific elements of the program. In 1994,
this DRD support amounted to 31% of Solidarity expenditures in the four project states, or
approximately 7% of the total national program.
Project Objectives
2.    The objective of the DRD project was to increase access of poor and indigenous
populations in the states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, and Oaxaca to basic infrastructure,
social services, markets and technologies. The project was to: (i) assist the states to
develop, execute and finance investment programs with a strong poverty alleviation focus;
(ii) assist the federal and state planning and budgeting ministries in making more efficient
and flexible project selection, environmental assessment, and monitoring and evaluation; and
(iii) enable state institutions and municipio& to identify, prepare, build, operate, and
maintain the investments in a more participatory manner. The US$350 million loan over
four years (1991-1994) was used by the project executing agency, the Social Development
Secretariat (SEDESOL), to finance four components: state and municipio rural investment;
environmental protection; cultural site restoration; and institutional development.
Elements of the Solidarity program have been continued by the current presidential administration
under the name of Programa de Bien Estar.
2 "Municipios" in Mexico are the equivalent of districts or counties in other countries. They include rural
as well as urban areas.



- ill -
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Project implementation experience was generally positive and resulted in substantial
achievement in each project component. Implementation was hindered, however, by an
overly complex project design involving many different sector agencies in each of the four
states, along with federal and state planning agencies and 840 municipios. Most of the
project loan financing was dedicated to the state and municipio investment programs, with
US$165 mnillion and US$153 million of loan disbursed in those two programs, respectively.
4.    Municipio Investment Program.  The Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna
programs were well conceived and extremely successful in meeting project objectives. This
program succeeded in: (i) creating or rehabilitating infrastructure in rural areas at low cost;
(ii) providing rural municipios the opportunity to manage resources and to plan and
implement (through community groups) small scale public works; (iii) establishing a new
forum for citizen participation accessible to the rural poor; and (iv) creating and testing a
successful model of community implementation of local small scale projects, providing a
viable alternative to the traditional centralized implementation. The Municipio Investment
Program financed the construction or reconstruction of an estimated 5,100 school buildings,
rehabilitation and/or equipping of 18,000 school buildings (through the Escuela Digna
program), rehabilitation of 2,500 rural roads, including construction of bridges and fords,
and construction or rehabilitation of 4,500 water supply systems. The quality of physical
infrastructure was adequate in most cases, although some recurrent problems were found in
the water supply and income-generating investment, due to the technical and/or
organizational complexity of these two sectors. Problems were discovered in approximately
half of the projects in these two areas, accounting for approximately 10% of the Municipal
Fund and Escuela Digna financing.
5.    State Investment Program. The State Investment Program brought mixed results.
Most successful was the school construction program, which built school buildings at two-
thirds the cost of those federally contracted, followed by the rural water supply and
electrification programs.  The weakest components were rural roads and agriculture
investments which were much less successful, mainly due to inadequate procedures for
subproject identification and selection. Institutional capacity problems existed, especially in
the roads and agriculture sectors, which were compounded SEDESOL's inaction in
addressing issues of quality and application of subproject selection criteria, as weli as the
lack of linkage of the states' Solidarity budgets to their compliance with subproject
eligibility criteria. Physical achievements in the State Investment Program included
construction, rehabilitation or extension of approximately 740 water supply systems,
construction of 4,000 classrooms, and upgrading of 800 km of rural roads. In addition, one
major success of the program was the successful piloting of a labor-intensive, low cost
approach to rural road rehabilitation called "Puntos Criticos" in Hidalgo during the last year
of the project, resulting in the rehabilitation of 400 km of road.
6.    Environment Component.  This component (US$16 million of loan funds
disbursed) principally supported the protection of the Selva Lacandona tropical rainforest in
Chiapas. Most successful activities of this component were: (i) demarcation of the reserve



- lv -
and the creation of the park protection service, with many of these activities transferred to
the Comunidad Lacandon by the last year of the project; and (ii) basic education and
community medical programs, using trained community workers. Less successful were the
agriculture activities of the program, especially those activities which attempted to implant
technology "packages" which were not appropriate to the conditions of the area.  By
contrast, those productive investment activities which involved significant amounts of
community organization and participation, combined with technical assistance, were
successful. Limiting the success of this component was the delay in contracting the agro-
ecological study of Selva Lacandona, which was still not complete by project closing.
7.    Institutional Development Component. This component financed a combination
of long and short term consultants to assist the State Planning Commissions (COPLADEs)
in analyzing and addressing regional development issues. This technical assistance may
have had a positive effect on state capacity in general, but was flawed in that insufficient
expert assistance was provided to line agencies and to local, municipal governments where
planning and technical improvements were most needed.
8.    Cultural Sites Protection Component. This component (US$3 million of loan
funds disbursed) was designed to preserve archeological sites by the National Institute of
Anthropology and History (INAH). While limited in scope, it was extremely successful in
meeting the twin goals of protecting cultural heritage and providing a source of short-term
employment in poor regions.
9.    Targeting to the Poor. The targeting of DRD project investments to the poor was
in large part successful. Better off communities also benefited from investments, but
analysis of the Municipal Funds showed that greater proportion of this investment in basic,
small scale infrastructure was received by rural than urban areas, where poverty is
concentrated, and that within rural areas, heavily indigenous communities received as much
per capita as non-indigenous communities.
10.   Monitoring System. The project succeeded in instituting a data base system for
monitoring the investment portfolio at the state and national levels. This system allowed for
monitoring the evolution of the project, as information became available regarding how
states and municipios decided to invest project funds. Sustainabiity of the information
system has been made more likely by the integration of the system within SEDESOL's
normal administrative approval procedures. In addition, the national Solidarity program has
adopted the system. It was installed in all eight of the Second DRD project (Loan 3790-
ME) states in 1994, and is being expanded to all remaining states starting in 1996.
11.   Sustainability. The sustainability of the new Municipal Fund and Escuela Digna
program mechanism has been demonstrated by the continuation and strengthening of this
program as an integral part of the resource transfer system among levels of government.
Sustainability of the investments under the Municipal Fund and Escuela Digna program,
and the state investment program, still needs to be studied, but it is anticipated that the
sustainability rate will be significantly higher than for most rural development projects,



-v -
given the simple design and significant community participation in the selection and
construction of many of the works.
12.   Bank Performance. The Bank's performance had both strengths and weaknesses.
On the positive side, Bank staff worked closely with government to identify new
institutional mechanisms for efficiently implementing the project by communities and
municipios. During implementation, Bank staff worked with project implementing agency
staff to review field experience and to revise and strengthen project guidelines for each
component. On the negative side, the appraisal did not adequately identify many of the
implementation difficulties mentioned above, resulting in significant performance problems
in some components.
13.   Borrower Performance. Borrower commitment to core elements of the project
was strong, especially to the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna subcomponent. These
programs benefited by Government's general support to Solidarity, including the traininlg of
Solidarity Committee members. The executing agency should also be commended for the
creation and maintenance of a new information system which has yielded important
technical, social and geographical information about project investments (see para. 10
above). Government performance could have been improved by it: (i) conducting more
frequent field supervision to address technical quality and sustainability issues; (ii) focusing
technical assistance to address performance problems in sector agencies and municipios;
(iii) enforcing investment program guidelines and eligibility criteria; and (iv) providing
greater financing to key project elements, including the agro-ecological study of the Selva
Lacandona and efforts by state governments to pilot the Puntos Criticos road rehabilitation
program.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   Assessment of Outcomes.  The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory,
principally due to the successful Municipal Funds program, which created a new mechanism
for planning and implementing poverty-targeted rural investment programs by municipios,
with high levels of beneficiary and community participation.  In addition, the Seiva
Lacandona subcomponent made important advances in the protection of the Montes Azules
Reserve by involving the local indigenous and other communities around the reserve in
managing the protection program and participating in the delivery of improved basic health
and education services and income-generating projects.
15.   Future Operations. Follow-up on some of the most important investments and
institutional development actions financed by the DRD project has been folded into the
Second DRD project (Loan 3790-ME), which continued to support aspect of Solidarndad
and its successor, Programa de Bienestar. Further needs to strengthen protection for the
Selva Lacandona are being addressed by an existing GEF project, and by community
development activities financed by Municipal Funds within the Second DRD project and by
State government. In addition, the "Southern States Initiative" in Chiapas and Oaxaca is
identifying ways to address general rural development issues in those states, and a possibe



- vi -
Sustainable Development Project could apply lessons learned about agricultural
development in poor, indigenous areas in Oaxaca.
16t   Key Lessons Learned. Lessons learned include: (i) the kind of approach used in
the Municipal Funds program of allowing rural communities to actively manage their own
small scale development investments can be successful; (ii) because national government
may not be willing to impose or enforce rules and guidelines for the use of funds transferred
to lower level jurisdictions, such programs should be designed to ensure broad participation
and transparency of resource use; (iii) participatory evaluations, involving different levels of
government and community members, can be done effectively with limited resources; (iv)
capacity building measures and incentive structures need to be integrated into the design of
programs containing substantial community complexity and diversity of sector investments,
and need to include also the local level; and (v) the need to ensure commitment of involved
agencies and clear institutional mandates.






MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    The Decentralization and Regional Development (DRD) Project (Loan 3310-ME)
was designed to assist government's efforts to alleviate poverty in southern Mexico. Over a
period of four years (1990-1994), the project loan financed approximately 15% of federal
resources going to the new multi-sector regional development program, Solidarity, in the
states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca.  The Solidarity program was the
centerpiece of the Salinas administration's poverty alleviation strategy, and was
implemented through a partnership of federal, state and local governments, and
communities using matching grant resources.
2.    The Solidarity program, and the DRD project, was a direct outgrowth of the
government's earlier regional development program, supported by a series of three
Integrated Rural Development Projects (PIDER I, II and III, Loans 1110-ME, 1462-ME
and 2043-ME, respectively)  implemented between 1975 to 1988.  These programs
provided funds to support investments in poor regions in a number of states. For the
implementation of the most recent of these projects, a new intergovernmental mechanism
(the Convenio Unico de Desarrollo, CUD1) was established to allow investments to be
jointly financed by state and federal governments. A state level inter-agency planning and
development commission (COPLADE) was created in each state to review and approve
regional development program investments, and provide inter-governmental and inter-
agency coordination of all investments. When Solidarity was introduced in 1989, it
continued to use the CUD and COPLADE mechanisms for coordinating joint federal and
state poverty activities.
B. Project Objectives
3.    The central objective of the DRD project was to increase access of poor and
indigenous populations in four of the poorest states of Mexico (Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo,
and Oaxaca) to basic infrastructure, social services, markets and technologies, through
financing of specific elements of the Solidarity program and related institutional
development technical assistance. The project was to: (i) assist the states to develop,
1 Renamed Convenio de Desarrollo Social in 1993.



- 2 -
execute and finance investment programs with a strong poverty alleviation focus; (ii) assist
the federal and state planning and budgeting ministries in making project selection,
environmental assessment, and monitoring and evaluation more efficient, and financing
more flexible; and (iii) enable state institutions and municipios? to identify, prepare, build,
operate, and maintain the investments in a more participatory manner. These objectives
were to be achieved with the assistance of a US$350 million loan over four years to finance
four components: state and municipio rural investment; environmental protection; cultural
site restoration; and institutional development. In addition, the project incorporated action
plans for the decentralization of government services and fiscal strengthening of local
government.
Linkage with predecessor PIIDER projects and sector studies
4.    The Project Completion Report (Report No. 9175) for PIDER III (1981-1988)
indicated that while that project generally met its objectives, it suffered from several
problems. These included: (i) low levels of total public investment in poor regions in spite
of the project; (ii) inadequate participation of beneficiaries; (iii) lack of technical quality in
the preparation and appraisal of projects; and (iv) inadequate project monitoring.
Furthermore, a poverty sector study was conducted in 1988-89, ("Mexico Strategy
Proposal for Regional/Rural Development in the Disadvantaged States", Report No. 7786-
ME, May 22, 1989) concluded that the situation of poverty in Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo
and Oaxaca would not improve "unless a major effort is mounted in terms of public
investment, technical assistance, and community leadership and mobilization."
5.    The DRD project was designed to address the findings of the poverty study of the
disadvantage states and to build on the learning of the PIDER projects. The project name
"Decentralization and Regional Development" reflected its focus on the development of the
poor rural south of Mexico through decentralized planning and implementation. In the
project, expenditure programs were planned and coordinated at the state and municipal
level and not by central government; and execution of project components were to be done
by agencies at the state or lower level, moving the locus of execution closer to the intended
beneficiaries. The project was also designed to specifically address the weaknesses of its
PIDER III predecessor. First, to increase the flow of funds to the poor states, during
project preparation government agreed to reform the federal revenue-sharing formula.
Second, to increase participation of poor communities, the Solidarity program included a
strengthened role for communities through the Solidarity Committees and the Municipal
Funds program, which financed community-initiated proposals. To address the problem of
inadequate implementation capacity, an institutional development component was designed
to strengthen state level planning, plans were made for greater sector decentralization, and
simple subproject selection criteria were developed for most sectors. Finally, insufficient
monitoring in PIDER III, due in part to the cutbacks in government operations, was to be
2 "Municipios" in Mexico are the equivalent of districts or counties in other countries. They include rural
as well as urban areas.



addressed by strengthening the project monitoring capacity of the implementing agency, the
Social Development Secretariat (SEDESOL),3 at central and state levels.
Complexity of project design
6.    The objectives of the DRD project were consistent with priorities established in the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, but were too far-reaching to be fully achievable given
the limited capacity and commitment of involved agencies. The financing of a broad-based
rural investment program at the state level, i.e., the "State Investment Program," created
severe implementation problems as it involved state offices of five federal agencies and over
20 state agencies (at least five in each state) and six major areas of investment-rural water
supply, drainage, rural roads, rural electrification, educational infrastructure, and
agricultural development. Many of these sector agencies were weak in one or more areas,
including planning, technical approaches, community participation, contracting, and
operations and maintenance.
7.    The project was further complicated by the inclusion of components not closely
related to the central investment program, the components included: (i) an environment
component broken into two subcomponents, one to strengthen state environment agencies
and one to protect the Selva Lacandona tropical rainforest in Chiapas; (ii) a cultural sites
component to preserve archeological sites by the National Institute of Anthropology and
History (INAH); and (iii) as part of the institutional development component, technical
assistance to evaluate and strengthen the Regional Solidarity Funds of the National
Indigenous Institute (INI).  The inclusion of these components created significant
implementation challenges for both government and the Bank, as they involved an
additional number of agencies and stakeholders, and in the case of the Selva Lacandona,
required very difficult development issues to be addressed.
Inadequate institutional mandates and incentives
8.    Difficulties with the state investment programs were compounded by the fact that
SEDESOL's federal and state offices did not have a clear institutional mandate to oversee
the quality of investments or the application of subsector project selection criteria. They did
not actively enforce the state's application of agreed selection criteria or quality standards,
and occasionally presented for Bank approval and reimbursement subprojects that did not
meet eligibility standards. In addition, the incentives for states to comply with project
guidelines were weak; their Solidarity budgets were not made contingent on or linked to the
eligibility of investments for DRD project financing.
9.    As part of the decentralization and institutional strengthening objectives of the
project, action plans for the decentralization and deconcentration of agriculture and rural
3 The original project implementation agency was the Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto (SPP-
Programming and Budget Secretariat), which had previously been responsible for PIDER and PDR.
SPP was re-organized in 1992 and the subsecretariat responsible for Solidarity and the DRD project was
eventually transferred to the newly created Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL, Secretariat of
Social Development).



-4 -
roads functions to the states were included as supplemental letters to the legal agreement.
These actions, however, were not under the purview of the project implementing agency
(SEDESOL), but of federal and state line agencies, and were only partially achieved during
the project. In retrospect, they would have been better included in sector policy dialogue
and sector operations.
Municipio investment program
10.  In contrast with the over-complexity of the state investment program, the design of
the muntcipio investment program (Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna) was well
conceived and extremely successful in meeting project objectives. By its nature, the
program required much less technical oversight and planning; community participation in
investment selection effectively took the place of eligibility criteria; and both central and
state governments showed their strong commitment to this program with budgetary and
staff resources.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
Overview
11.  In the largest project component, state and municipio investment, the project
supported two main groups of activities: (i) Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna, which
financed small scale infrastructure investments selected and implemented by communities
and municipal authorities; and (ii) State Investment Programs, which were selected by the
State Planning Commissions, and carried out by responsible state-level line agencies.
12.   Municipio investment program.  The DRD project was able to achieve a large
part of each of its objectives because of the successful and innovative Municipal Funds and
the related program limited to school rehabilitation called Escuela Digna.  In these
programs, the project used new institutional and financing mechanisms for identifying,
preparing, building, and maintaining rural infrastructure investments in a participatory
manner. Initially conceived as a small subcomponent of the project, funding for the
municipal investment program was more than tripled through two loan amendments, so that
municipios received a total of US$305 million in project financing (including US$153
million, or 44% of the US$350 loan). In the Municipal Funds program, over 20,000
subprojects were financed at an average cost of less than US$13,000. In the Escuela Digna
program, over 18,000 schools were rehabilitated or equipped at an average cost of
approximately US$3,000. Since the end of the project, government has renewed and
increased its commitment to these programs, now merged into one program, which
continues to receive support in eight states under the Second DRD Project (Loan 3790-
ME).
13.   State investment program. In the state investment subcomponent, success varied
by sector. Inadequate institutional capacity, especially in agriculture and rural roads, led to
poor performance, and to significant reductions in the allocation of project resources to the
state program in general and specifically to those two sectors. As many proposed rural



roads and agriculture subprojects were rejected for project financing for not meeting
minimum criteria, increased financing was made available for the highly successful school
construction and rehabilitation program. Even when the state and Municipal Funds road
investments are taken together, they accounted for only 15% of project financing, compared
to the 35% estimated at appraisal. Agriculture investments were limited in both the state
and Municipal Funds programs, and only accounted for 7% compared to the 29% of project
financing estimated in the SAR. The educational infrastructure program was the largest
investment category in the state program, and, including the Municipal Funds and Escuela
Digna program, accounted for 32% of project financing compared to the SAR estimate of
12%. The state water supply component financed the construction or rehabilitation of
relatively simple rural water supply systems with an average cost of US$85,000 per system
or US$100/water user. When combined with the much smaller scale investments made
under Municipal Funds, water supply investments amounted to 18% of project financing,
double the SAR estimate of 9%.
14.   Environment and cultural sites protection components. The Selva Lacandona
program achieved only partial success, due to: (i) problems of project design, which overly
depended on government rather than community action; (ii) conflict in the area which began
in January 1994; and (iii) limitations placed by government on the financing of elements of
the program. The total loan disbursement was significantly below expectations, at only
US$16 million of the budgeted US$41 million. This figure, however, is somewhat
understated, as some expenditures for the program were not eligible for loan financing
because of a lack of consistency with procurement guidelines. Limiting the success of this
component was the delay in contracting the agro-ecological study of Selva Lacandona,
which was still not complete by project closing. The cultural sites component, as originally
designed was limited in scope (US$3 million). Nevertheless, it was successful in meeting
twin goals of protecting cultural heritage and providing a source of short-term employment
in the region.
15.  Institutional development component. The success of this component is difficult
to quantify. Support for the Regional Indigenous Funds through the provision of technical
assistance and a program evaluation was somewhat successful, but success was limited by
the fact that the evaluation was completed only near the end of the project, and to its results
were not fully addressed. The results of other elements of the Institutional Development
Component, the long-term technical assistance and training contract and other technical
assistance and training activities of each state were positive, but did not fully meet
expectations laid out in the SAR.
16.   Effect of the DRD project on Mexico's poverty alleviation program. Despite
improving the lives of millions of people, elements of the Solidarity program have suffered
from various shortcomings. These include: (i) investments being selected in a non-
transparent process and not adequately targeting the poor; (ii) limited community
involvement in investments that were contracted or implemented by government, rather
than being managed by communities; and (iii) technical problems and the lack of resources
for the operation and maintenance of investments. The elements of Solidarity included in
the DRD project, which financed only 31% of the Solidarity investments in the four project
states and 7% of the Solidarity investments nationwide, had a much better record. The



- 6 -
DRD project has had a substantial beneficial impact on Solidarity in general by
demonstrating how Municipal Funds could work, leading to a major increase in funding for
that program in all Mexican states. In addition, due to the positive experiences in states of
Hidalgo and Oaxaca, the special Municipal Development Councils were strengthened and
given more responsibilities in all the states of Mexico. The project operational manual for
Municipal Funds was adopted in 1996 for use in all states, including the requirement for
limiting investment in district capitals, formulas for allocating resources among municipios,
and varying community contribution requirements depending on project type. In addition,
the data base system developed under DRD is being instituted nationally to monitor the
Solidarity Municipal Fund, a new program encompassing the old Municipal Funds. As a
consequence, the implementation impact of DRD, which is considered satisfactory on its
own terms, becomes even more noteworthy because of its beneficial impact on the
government's poverty alleviation program overall.
Municipal funds and Escuela digna
17.   Overall accomplishments.  The objective of the Municipal Fund and Escuela
Digna component was to finance rural development investment targeted to the poor while
strengthening planning and beneficiary participation at the municipal level. Qualitative and
quantitative evaluations of the Municipal FundlEscuela Digna program were conducted
jointly by SEDESOL, state governments and the Bank, as well as through an independent
evaluation of Municipal Funds in Oaxaca. They confirm a number of accomplishments of
the program, including:
(a)   Valuable infrastructure was created or rehabilitated in rural areas at low
cost, especially school buildings, bridges, roads, and, to a lesser extent,
water supply.
(b)   Rural municipios were given experience, many for the first time, in planning
development activities, managing resources and implementing (through
community groups) small scale public works.
(c)   A new forum for citizen participation was created, in which members of rural
poor communities are given an opportunity to participate in local
development decisions.
(d)   A successful model of community implementation of local small scale
projects was established, providing a viable alternative to the traditional
centralized implementation or contracting of these works and which often
resulted in failure.
18.   Community participation. While quality of implementation of Municipal Funds
varied across states and municipios, in nearly all circumstances community participation
was a major element of their success. Following program guidelines, nearly all municipios
established special councils composed of members or representatives of rural communities
to manage the program with the Municipal President. Subprojects selected by the
municipios reflected a high degree of community commitment, demonstrated by the



minimum community contribution of 20 percent of subproject cost, including community
participation in construction activities. In Hidalgo and Oaxaca, community Solidarity
Committees were usually given complete responsibility for managing the investment budget,
including purchasing materials, hiring skilled labor and supervision of the work. In Guerrero
and Chiapas, municipal presidents were less willing to transfer resources to communities,
preferring to control material purchases centrally; communities still would be responsible for
managing implementation, but using materials provided to them.
19.   Participatory field evaluations and Bank supervision provided information of how
the participatory elements of Municipal Funds were working, and gave evidence that the
more management was delegated to communities through the Solidarity Committees, the
more likely that subproject selection reflected community interests, and that implementation
would be done with higher quality and cost efficiency. Project supervision stressed the
importance of following the community management model and of strengthening the role of
the municipal council to ensure participatory decision-making. Of the four project states,
however, significant efforts to strengthen these practices occurred only in the states of
Hidalgo and Oaxaca, where they received strong support by state level officials.
20.   Because of their achievements, the Municipal Funds were used as model for
community and local government participation in development planning and implementation
in several other countries. The Municipal Funds became the model for the successful
redesign of the Brazil Northeast Regional Development Project (Loan 2761-BR). In
Nicaragua, a similar fund is proposed as part of the Rural Municipalities Project (Credit
2918-NI).
21.   Physical targets. The Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna program resulted in the
construction or reconstruction of an estimated 5,100 school buildings, rehabilitation and/or
equipping of 18,000 school buildings (through the Escuela Digna program), rehabilitation
of 2,500 rural roads, including construction of bridges and fords, and construction or
rehabilitation of 4,500 water supply systems.  Supervision missions as well as an
independent evaluation reported that the quality of schools was generally satisfactory, and
that subproject costs were from one-half to two-thirds that of equivalent contracted works.
Similarly, works by communities in simple road repair and bridge and ford construction
were considered of good quality at extremely low cost. Water supply subprojects were
much less successful as shown by an evaluation of Municipal Funds in Oaxaca, in which
43% of a sample of 30 water supply projects were not functioning because of technical
design inadequacies or because project funding was only adequate for one stage of the
needed construction.  Success was also very limited in the small number of income
generating projects financed by Municipal Funds, especially those requiring group
organization such as corn mills (molinos de nixtamal) and bakeries.  In spite of
identification of needs for technical assistance during project supervision, little improvement
was made in this area during the project life. Strengthening of technical assistance to
communities and the conduct of annual physical performance reviews of subprojects
became key activities agreed within the Second DRD project.



-8-
State investment program
22.   Investment planning. Only limited improvements of the state planning function
were achieved during the project, principally because of differences between the Bank and
government regarding effective rural development planning. While both agreed on the need
to promote participation in the identification of development priorities, a major area of
disagreement was regarding the use of selection criteria in order to ensure the efficient and
effective targeting of development funds. While the project incorporated the use of
eligibility criteria based on maximum cost per beneficiary, depending on the sector,
commitment to this approach by both the national and state governments was weak. One
measure of this was that careful Bank review of Statements of Expenditures was required
throughout the project to ensure that ineligible subprojects were not financed.
23.   Sector planning innovation -- the "Puntos Criticos" program. Significant
progress and innovation was made in sector planning, however, with the piloting of the spot
improvement (puntos criticos) rural roads rehabilitation program in Hidalgo during the final
year of the project. This program used a model for cost-effective, labor intensive rural road
rehabilitation which subsequently became the basis for a project component of the Second
DRD project (Loan 3790-ME). In 1994, 400 km of roads in Hidalgo were rehabilitated at
an average cost of US$7,000 per km.
24.   Physical targets. Approximately 740 water supply systems were constructed,
rehabilitated or extended under the state investment component, serving approximately
630,000 persons at an average cost of US$100 per person. While these systems were
mainly contracted, the project also supported in its final years systems constructed by
communities. The educational infrastructure investments of both the state and municipal
funds investment programs were especially successful. School buildings were contracted by
states at two-thirds the cost, on average, of those contracted by central government, with
no difference in quality. In addition to the estimated 4500 classrooms built under the
Municipal Funds, an additional 4,000 classrooms were constructed under the state program.
Approximately 800 km of rural roads were upgraded (unpaved) during the project at an
average cost of US$80,000 per km, with 76% of the investment occurring in Hidalgo and
Oaxaca. The amount spend in this component (US$ 63 million total, of which US$ 31
million was reimbursed from the loan) was less than half the amount anticipated in the SAR,
as much of the state rural road portfolio did not fit the project eligibility requirement of a
maximum cost of US$500/inhabitant or did not meet contracting requirements as they were
implemented by direct administration of the state road agency (especially in Guerrero).
25.   Institutional development technical assistance and the state investment
program. The institutional development component financed a combination of long and
short term consultants hired by SEDESOL and the states to provide training and to conduct
studies and analysis, focusing on regional development issues. This technical assistance may
have had a positive effect on state capacity in general, but it had little apparent impact on
improving project-related investment planning and implementation, which was centered in
the sector line agencies and the municipios. The project design was flawed in that
institutional development activities were linked to the centralized state level planning



-9-
organizations (COPLADEs), and not to the line agencies or local governments where
planning and technical improvements were most needed.
Environmental protection
26.   The Environment Component had two objectives: (i) environmental protection of
the Selva Lacandona in Chiapas; and (ii) institutional strengthening of the state offices of
the national environment agency (SEDESOL/INE)4 in order to improve the quality of
environmental reviews of rural development investments. The first objective was addressed
by the financing of local long-term consultants in each state office to assist in the
development of review procedures, for a total of US$ 2 million.
27.   Approximately US$ 14 million of loan financing was used for the Selva Lacandona
Protection Program. This is substantially below the amount anticipated in the SAR of US$
36 million, because some government expenditures were not eligible for reimbursement and
because the implementation capacity of involved federal and state agencies had been over-
estimated at appraisal. In addition, project expenditures declined substantially after the
January 1994 Zapatista uprising as this prevented continuation of many program activities in
nearly one-half of the Selva Lacandona area.
28.   Activities supported by the program included: (i) demarcation of the reserve and of
communal lands of the Lacandons; (ii) resolution of land tenure disputes within and around
the reserve in order to promote greater recognition and observance of reserve boundaries;
(iii) establishment of a park protection service, in order to prevent incursions into the
reserve and prevent extraction of logs and other valuable flora and fauna through a road
inspection system; (iv) establishment of community based approaches to the provision of
basic medical and education services; and (v) provision of other social and economic
investments to improve the quality of life of settlements around the reserve.
29.   The most successful social programs were the basic education and community
medical programs, each of which trained community workers to work as primary school
teacher and community health workers, respectively. The continuation post-project of the
basic education program looks likely because of the adoption of the program by the State
Education Secretariat. The continuation of the medical program, however, is in doubt.
Substantial progress was made in the demarcation of the reserve and the creation of the
park protection service. During the final year of the program, implementation responsibility
of significant parts of these activities was transferred to the Comunidad Lacandon. The
agriculture activities of the program were less successful, especially those activities which
attempted to implant technology "packages" which were not appropriate to the conditions
of the area. The productive investment activities that were successful involved significant
amounts of community organization and participation. These included the women's
program (bakeries and community gardens), and export oriented programs with the organic
coffee producer associations and the Comunidad Lacandon.
4 The first implementor of the this component was the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
(SEDUE). When SEDUE was merged with part of SPP in 1992, the environmental protection functions
were taken over by the Instituto Nacional de Ecologia (INE-National Ecology Institute), within
SEDESOL.



- 10 -
Poverty targeting
30.   The targeting of DRD project investments to the poor was in large part successful.
Better off communities also benefited from investments, but analysis of the Municipal Funds
showed that a greater proportion of the investment was received by rural than urban areas,
where poverty is concentrated, and that within rural areas, heavily indigenous communities
received as much per capita as non-indigenous communities. The nature of investments
also reflected poverty targeting, as investment went to address basic needs of educational
facilities, electrification, water supply, and roads and bridges in poor rural areas.
Monitoring system
31.   A major focus during project implementation was the institution at national and state
levels of a data base system for monitoring the investment portfolio, including for Municipal
FundslEscuela Digna, the state investment programs, and the Selva Lacandona program.
This system allowed for monitoring project implementation as information became available
regarding how states and municipios decided to invest project funds. It replaced a focus on
prior reviews of annual investment programs (POAs, Programa Operativo Anual), which
were very tentative and often did not reflect final investment decisions. The information
system allowed the Bank and government to review compliance with eligibility criteria for
the state programs and to monitor the nature and location of projects being implemented
within the state programs and the Municipal Fund and Escuela Digna programs.
Sustainability of the information system is not ensured, but has been made more likely by
the integration of the system within SEDESOL's normal administrative approval
procedures. By the last year of the project, all states were actively using the system for
their own analytical purposes, as well as for data sharing and for obtaining expenditure
approvals from the central SEDESOL office, and the system was even being introduced in
states not participating in the project.
Least cost solutions
32.   A net present value (NPV) was not calculated for project investments at the time of
preparation, given the difficulties of such calculations for the wide range of investments,
many of them small scale "social" infrastructure such as water supply systems and
classrooms. Instead, the eligibility criteria for investments used a least cost approach by
establishing cost limits per beneficiary for investments, while requiring NPV calculations for
agriculture investments over US$100,000. Community participation in the selection and
implementation process for Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna program led not only to
the selection of high priority investments given limitations of funding, but also to saving of
significant government resources from the mobilization of community resources and from
the cheaper cost of these works.



- 11 -
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not subject to government control
33.   One significant factor affecting implementation not subject to control by the project
agency was the initiation of Zapatista conflict in the Altos and Selva Lacandona regions of
Chiapas in January 1994. From this time, financing of the Selva Lacandona component was
limited to areas outside of the conflict zone, given the difficulty in project implementation
and supervision. This meant that the process of demarcating the Montes Azules reserve in
the Cafiadas region could not continue, and the education, health and productive projects
were limited to two of the five subregions in the Selva (Comunidad Lacandon and Marquez
de Comillas). This prevented gains in the protection and research programs from being
consolidated, and held up the contracting of the agro-ecological study and the completion
of the demarcation program.  These efforts are continuing after the project, with
government support. In addition, the conflict has created an opportunity for greater
incursion into the reserve and further deforestation in the Cahadas region, reducing the
potential impact of the project.
Factors subject to government control
34.   During the project, Government showed strong support for financing of Solidarity
and within Solidarity, the Municipal FundslEscuela Digna program. Annual financing of
that program was doubled from 1990 to 1994 in the four project states, leading government
to request a reallocation of funds among loan categories in 1992. This allowed the project
to be much more successful in achieving community participation and municipal
strengthening objectives than it would have been otherwise.  On the negative side,
government's continuing policy to delay liberation of a large percentage of budgetary
resources until the middle of the fiscal year, and little flexibility in carrying over unused
budget from one year to the other, common to many projects and programs in Mexico,
created severe problems for implementing agencies and municipios, especially since funds
for construction projects were therefore not available until after the beginning of the rainy
season.
35.   Another problem, already mentioned above (para. 8), was the decision to manage
the allocation of the Solidarity budget to states in such a way that states would have no
financial incentive to invest in subprojects that met project eligibility criteria. States received
no additional funds for implementing project eligible subprojects. Because of this, the
project only financed a small percentage of the state Solidarity investment program, as
government often selected investments regardless of whether they were project eligible.
Factors subject to SEDESOL control
36.   The project implementing agency, SEDESOL, did not directly execute the
programs. They were implemented by state and federal agencies through contractors, and
by municipios and communities. While SEDESOL did not directly control implementation,
it had significant influence through its approvals of financing, and its funding of local level
technical assistance and training. Project implementation would have been strengthened



- 12 -
substantially had SEDESOL better enforced the Municipal Funds guidelines regarding: (i)
the distribution of funds within municipios to avoid concentration of investment in the
municipal capital; and (ii) the requirement that the Solidarity Committees be given full
implementation responsibility, including for the management of funds. The quality of
investments could also have been improved if SEDESOL had paid greater attention to
monitoring the participation and technical aspects of the investments, and to assisting states
address implementation problems identified through monitoring.
E. Project Sustainability
37.   The sustainability of the new Municipal Funds/Escuela Digna program mechanism
has been demonstrated since project closing by government's substantial increase of
resources going to the program. What began as a special program has become an integral
part of the resource transfer system among levels of government, providing supplemental
resources, especially to poor municipios, to assist their financing of priority poverty-
targeted investments. Sustainability of the investments under the Municipal Funds/Escuela
Digna program and the state investment program has not been studied. Nevertheless, given
that most investments were for very small, technically simple works, they were selected and
partially funded by communities themselves, and quality was in most cases adequate (except
for the Municipal Funds water supply and income-generating investments), it is anticipated
that the sustainability rate will be significantly high than for most rural development
projects.
F. Bank Performance
Preparation and appraisal
38.   The Bank's performance from identification through appraisal had both strengths
and weaknesses. On the positive side, Bank staff worked closely with government to
identify new institutional mechanisms for efficiently implementing the project by
communities and municipios. The objective of increasing community participation was met
in a highly collaborative design process, which resulted in the development of the Municipal
Funds (Bank staff had initially proposed the establishment of a Community Fund to be
managed by NGOs). In order to include the innovative Municipal Funds component, Bank
staff worked with government to identify modifications to disbursement procedures within
government in order to be able to advance money to the municipios, as well as to Bank
procurement procedures to permit procurement of small works implemented by community
committees. In addition, policy level discussions with Secretariat of Finance contributed to
government action to increase resources to poor states through the reform of the revenue
sharing formula.
39.   On the negative side, the appraisal did not adequately identify the implementation
difficulties mentioned above, especially: (i) lack of commitment by SEDESOL and state
governments to the simplified, sector planning approaches upon which project investment
selection was to depend; (ii) need for institutional strengthening of state agencies, especially



- 13 -
in the use of appropriate technology for rural roads, and for the strengthened community
organization for the Municipal FundslEscuela Digna program and rural water supply; and
(iii) weak commitment to an active implementation quality monitoring function.
Implementation
40.   Due to its complexity and innovation, the project received a very high amount of
supervision resources. In addition to the Task Manager based in Washington, the project
was supervised by an experienced Bank staff transport engineer and water supply engineer
consultant, both based in Mexico. Total amount of supervision staff weeks was 392 weeks,
of which 139 were for the two engineers; 53 by environmental specialists (mainly for the
Selva Lacandona subcomponent); 13 by social scientists (mainly for the Regional Funds and
the Cultural Sites components); 12 by agriculturalists, and 41 by the task manager
(Institutional Development Specialist). In addition, 12 staff weeks was devoted to audit
(especially focusing on the Municipal Funds). The average number of staff weeks over the
3.5 years of implementation was extremely high at 98 staff weeks per year, of which at least
18 staff weeks per year was devoted to the environment and cultural preservation
components and Regional Funds activities. Commitment of staff resources was highest
during the first year, and decreased significantly during the 3.5 years. The state and
municipal investment components (total loan disbursement US$318 million for over 28,000
subprojects) and the institutional development component (total loan disbursement US$13
million) required approximately 80 staff weeks per year over three and a half years. This
amounts to an average of one staff week of supervision for every US$1.2 million in
disbursement, which might be considered reasonable given the decentralized nature of the
implementation of a large number (over 40,000) of small investments.
G. Borrower Performance
41.   The project and the Solidarity program received substantial attention by government
during project implementation. SEDESOL maintained a sizable cadre of personnel in state
regional offices to assist municipal officials and follow-up on progress. In support of the
Solidarity program, SEDESOL initiated a number of innovative steps. One of these was the
initiation of a program of "Vocales de Control y Vigilancia" to create special members (or
vocales) within Solidarity Committees to act as an internal "watchdog" or auditor, resulting
in the more transparent use of funds. As project implementation proceeded, SEDESOL and
the project state governments, with assistance from the Bank supervision team, initiated a
process of participatory field evaluation. These evaluations provided valuable data to both
state and national governments on participation, and are being continued in the Second
DRD project. In addition, SEDESOL and the state governments, working closely with the
Bank, invested significantly in the creation and maintenance of a new monitoring system
which is yielding important technical, social and geographical information about the project.
Finally, the commitment of government to provide adequate budget for the project stands
out at a time when many other development projects were severely underfunded.
42.   Areas in which the Government could have done better, and which are to be
addressed in the implementation of the Second DRD project (Loan 3790-ME), include: (i)



- 14 -
conducting more frequent field supervision to address technical quality and sustainability
issues; (ii) focusing technical assistance on performance problems in sector agencies and
municipios; (iii) enforcing investment program guidelines and eligibility criteria; and, (iv)
providing greater financing to key project elements, including the agro-ecological study of
the Selva Lacandona and efforts by state governments to pilot the Puntos Criticos road
rehabilitation program.
H. Assessment of Outcome
43.   The outcome of the project is satisfactory, principally due to the successful
introduction of the Municipal Funds program, which created a new mechanism for planning
and implementation of poverty-targeted rural investment programs through municipios,
with high levels of beneficiary and community participation.  In addition, the Selva
Lacandona subcomponent made important advances in the protection of the Montes Azules
Reserve by involving the local indigenous and other communities around the reserve in
managing the protection program and participating in the delivery of improved basic health
and education services and income-generating projects. The failure of certain aspects of the
state investment program was used as a learning experience so that in the follow-on Second
DRD project improved strategies were introduced, especially for rural roads.
I. Future Operations
44.   Follow-up on some of the most important investments and institutional development
actions financed by the DRD project has been folded into the Second DRD project. In
addition to what has already been mentioned above (para. 42), the second project has built
on the lessons from the first by: (i) providing most of project assistance through the
Municipal Funds mechanism, to ensure better targeting, participation, and cost efficiency of
expenditures; (ii) limiting financing of state investment to only two sectors, water supply
and roads; and (iii) within these two sectors, limiting project investment to those strategies
that most clearly target the rural poor with cost effective technologies.
45.   Further needs to strengthen protection for the Selva Lacandona are being addressed
by an existing GEF project and by continued financing of Municipal Funds within the
Second DRD project. In addition, the "Southern States Initiative" in Chiapas and Oaxaca is
identifying ways to address general rural development issues in those states. One of the key
elements of the Selva Lacandona program, the basic education program, is being continued
by the State Education Secretariat.
46.   One of the areas of failure of the DRD project was in its assistance to productive
income-generating investments. New strategies to achieve this are being developed in the
preparation of the Sustainable Development Project, which is targeted to poor,
predominantly indigenous regions in Oaxaca.



- 15 -
J. Key Lessons Learned
47.   Lessons learned derive principally from the success of the Municipal Funds program,
difficulties encountered project supervision, and the pilot experience with the rural road
spot improvement program. They include:
(a)   Increased transparency, accountability, cost savings, and effective investment
selection can be achieved through the simple approach used in the Municipal
Funds program of allowing rural communities to actively manage their own
small scale development investments.
(b)   Institutional complexity and diversity of sector investments, such as that
contained in the DRD state investment program, makes the efficient and
effective achievement of targets and institutional development goals
extremely difficult, and is reliant on the high commitment of involved
agencies and clear institutional mandates.
(c)  In a decentralized, local government and community driven project, reliable
information on project investment plans may not be available or accessible.
It makes more sense to focus resources on developing systems for timely
post reviews of project implementation, rather than attempting to apply
centralized, ex-ante controls.
(d)   In a decentralized project context, national government may not be willing to
impose or enforce rules and guidelines for the use of funds transferred to
lower level jurisdictions. Therefore, decentralized project designs should
build in a system of local reviews and controls, with as much public
accountability and transparency as possible.   The role of national
governments should be strengthened in the conduct of frequent evaluations
to determine whether locally managed systems are achieving the
development goals intended by the financing.
(e)   Based on the experience of participatory evaluations of Municipal Funds in
one of the DRD states, it can be concluded that such evaluations can be done
effectively with limited resources, and with full participation of different
levels of government and community members. Such evaluations can have
great, immediate impact as they provide credible and timely information to
decision-makers. The techniques of rapid rural appraisal are well suited to
these efforts.



- 16 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART H. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Tables
1. Summary of Assessments
2. Related Bank Loans
3. Project Timetable
4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5. Project Expenditures by Component and Subcomponent
6. Project Investment Expenditures by Sector: Combined State and Municipal
Investment Programs
7. Project Investment Expenditures by Sector and by State: Combined State and Municipal
Investment Programs
8. Project Investment and Targets by Sector: State Investment Program
9. Project Investment and Targets by Sector: Municipal Investment Program
10. Achievements of the Selva Lacandona Protection Program
11. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
12. Project Financing by Loan, Government and Community



- 17 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gender concerns
Indigenous concerns
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector development
Likely       Unlikely               Uncertain
B. Project sustainability
Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
C. Bank performance
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower performance
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (Not Applicable)
Highly                                       Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome



- 18 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan/credit title               Purpose               approval and        Status
amount
Preceding and concurrent
operations
Integrated Rural Dev.    Regionally planned rural         1981, for US$    Closed in
Project, (PIDER III),    development activities in seventeen   175 million.  December 1988;
Ln. 2043-ME           poor micro-regions in four states,    equiv.    PCR completed.
including agricultural development
for smallholders, rural roads and
other infrastructure.
Chiapas Agricultural     Integrated development for two   1985, for US$    Closed in
Development Project,   regions in Chiapas, financing flood   90 million  December 1993,
Ln. 2526-ME           control and road works, on-farm  equiv.         PCR completed.
works, soil conservation, production
support services, and institutional
development.
Second Tropical          Agricultural development of poor  1986, for US$    Closed in
Agriculture Project   micro-regions in the humid tropics   109 million  December 1995,
(PRODERITH II), Ln.   through investment principally in    equiv.     after a
2658-ME               large scale and on-farm drainage,               cancellation of
roads, and extension.                           US$ 20.7 million.
ICR completed.
Basic Health Case Project   Improve basic health care service  1990, for US$   Implementation
(PASSPA), Ln. 3272-    and nutrition assistance to uninsured  180 million  still underway,
ME                    poor in the four same states as the    equiv.   closing 12/31/96.
DRD project and the Federal
District; strengthen implementation   US$40.0
of sector reforms related to    million has
I________________________ decentralization to states.     been cancelled.
Primary Education Project,  Improve quality and efficiency of  1991, for US$   Implementation
Ln. 3407-ME           primary education in the same four   250 million  still underway,
states as the DRD project, financing   equiv.   closing 6/30/97
materials, teacher training, facilities
and institutional strengthening.  US$37.4
million has
been cancelled.



- 19 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 2: Related Bank Loans (Cont.)
Following operation:
Second Decentralization  Building on the DRD project,     1994, for US$   Implementation of
and Regional Development  expands financing for Municipal  500 million    Municipal Funds
Project, Ln. 3790-ME     Funds (community managed          equiv.         going well, but
infrastructure investment), rural               water supply and
roads rehabilitation and rural water            rural roads
supply to a total of eight states (the          lagging due to
four DRD project states plus four               lack of
new ones). Increases focus begun in             government
DRD on community participation                  financing
and management of investments.
Sustainable Development    This proposed project builds on the            GOM yet to give
DRD project experience, especially              support for
with income-generating activities in            project.
indigenous areas (i.e., the
Indigenous Regional Funds and the
Selva Lacandona program). It will
finance sustainable agricultural
development in indigenous poor
areas of Oaxaca in particular, using
approaches to technical assistance
and investment designed to promote
producers' participation in planning
I and management of activities.



- 20 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                                    N/A            March 1988
Preparation                                       N/A            June 1988 - 1st Mission
September 1988 - 2nd Mission
July 1989 - 3rd Mission
Appraisal                                  February 1990         February 14, 1990
(departure)
Negotiations                               January 1991          January 28, 1991
(start)
Board presentation                         March 26, 1991        March 26, 1991
Signing                                           N/A            June 26, 1991
Effectiveness                                     N/A            December 17, 1991
Project completion                         June 30, 1995         June 30, 1995
Loan closing (latest estimate)             December 31, 1995     December 31, 1995



- 21 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(lS$ millions) l
FY 1991    FY 1992    FY 1993    FY 1994    FY 1995    FY 1996
Appraisal      70          170         270         315        342.5        350
estunate
Actual          0          75          189         258         348          350
Actual as       0           44          70          82          102         100
% of
estimate
Date of final disbursement: August 14, 1995



- 22 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 5: Project Expenditures bv Component and Subcomponent-
Actual Projcct Expcnditurc    Loan Expendidtur
Projoct Component and
Subcomponcnt                                                   Plannod
%           sActual      (SAR)
.(.-SS million)   Total Inv.  (USS million)  (USS million)
Investment Component
State Investment              329          49           165           224
Educ. Infra.                 104           16          52            27
Water Supply                  63           9           31            22
Rural Roads                   63           9           31            83
Electrification               50           8           25            19
Agriculture                   32           S           16            68
Drainage                      17           3            9             S
Municipio Invest. (FMS,         305          46          153            50
Esc. Digna and other)
Cultural Preservation Comp.     3            <1           3             2
Environment Component
Institutional                 2           <1            2             5
Strengthening
Selva Lacandona               14           2           14            36
Institutional Development       13           2           13             18
TOTAL                          666          100          350           3352
1Estimates based on information gathered during prior reviews of SOE applications.
2 Excludes USS 15 million in unallocated category on disbursement schedule.



- 23 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 6: Project Investment Expenditures by Sector: Combined State and Municipal
Investment Pro rams
. . . ... . ...... .2. .........   .....
SECTOR         hvsuicw'' f
(US$million)  (US$ million)  (US$ million)
Ed. Infrastructure   104           46            54          204        32
Water Supply         63            51                        114        18
Drainage              17           24                        41         7
Rural Roads          63            33                   _    96         15
Electrification      50            10                        60
Agriculture          32            12             -          44         7
Streets/Parks/        -            51             -          51         8
Street Lights
Other                 -            24             -          24         4
TOTAL                329          251            54          634       100



- 24 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 7: Project Investment Expenditures by Sector and by State: Combined State and
Municipal Investment Pr grams
* SL CXTIR         CitIAPAS    GIJERllERO    iflDAAIUJ OAXACA1    10 IAL
.- ..t___ ..           ._...: .._...                           .. ....I . ._.-.....
il               t.S~~~~~~IS    IJS           ISS          l-55        I isS    CY'f 
.    . .  .   .......   ...........   ....     . . . ..  .nl in ........ no ulun,,,il,,, ,,,,! .miie,,l l iA,l
Ed Infrastructure     65             48             33            58        204      32
Water Supply          36             24             24            31         114     18
Drainage               9             6              15            11         41      6
Rural Roads           16             13             28            38         96      15
Electrification       21             17             14            7          59      9
Agriculture            2             7              15            20         45       7
Streets/Parks/        16             13             11            12         51      8
Street Lights
Other                  3             7              11            3          24      4
TOTAL            |    168            135      |    151           180        634    100



- 25 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
I ;11:11 N.: .111ojtIl 111VSi1111t.iulil 111(i II Ig.1% I l S oir: S1:11CT InIveTulienit lrogrer.m
!  $............   ....... ..............   . ........  ..;...   ..........A
lEducation         32         28        6        38       104      US$15,000          4,000
Infrastructure                                                                     classrooms
Water Supply       27         17        9        10       63        US$100/         630,000
beneficiary    beneficiaries,
l                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~740 systems
Drainage            5         3         6        3         17         NA               NA
Rural Roads         12        3         20       28       63     US$80,000/km    800 km rural
constructed/re
l                            ~~~~~~~~~~~hab.
Electrification    19         14        13        3       49           NA             NA
Agriculture         1         5         14       13       33          NA              NA
TOTAL              96         70        68       95       329



- 26 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 9: Project Investment and Targets bv Sector: Municipal Investment Program
*  ., .1.    I   .    *.  ........................
*4iU                    I                      -         I            AX 
U~ ~~|I;5| 1|    ;  Ii MTtf   IMIJ'fl  i flAYCM                      l 'qfl|AI.sm
I                               '         I   
*                    .1MA*. 11..
. ~~~~I .nilliura
Education
Infrastructure -    21       12         2          11        46     9,000   5,100 classrooms
-Mun. Fund
Education
Infrastructure -    12       8          25         9         54     3,000   18,000
- Esc. Digna                                                               I classrooms
Water Supply      9          7          15        21         52     12,000  4,500 systems
Drainage          4          3          9          8         24     14,000  1,700 systems
Rural Roads       4          10         8          10        32     13,000  2,500 roads,
bridges or fords
Electrification   2          3           1         4         10     14,000        NA
Agriculture        1         2          1          7         11     10,000        NA
Streets/Parks/
Street Lights     16         13         11        12         52     13,000        NA
Other             3          7          11         3         24
TOTAL             72        65          83        85        305



- 27 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 10: Achievements of the Selva Lacandona Protection Program
r .    ...  ...,,,,,,,, .....   ....... .. .,, ,...   ....    .    .    .    . ..   . .    .. . .   . . .  ...    .    ..   .........   ........  .....   ..   ..   ..........   .....    . 
Selva Lacandona
Technical Comnnitteel             1,564.70
Reserve Demarcation               2,889.86         462 boundary monuments
Protection and Inspection         6,022.66         7 guard houses, 1 program
Program
Basic Education                   17,149.05        3166 students
Medical Services                  2,802.57
Agricultural Investment          24,387.69         34 micro-firms, 9 nurseries
11 pig farms
Other investment                  9,839.28         2 rural roads, 3 storehouses,
35 schools
Studies                           4,725.18         6 studies
Total                            69,380.99
l/ This technical group assisted programn planning, conducted annual evaluations, and worked with communities to
address major constrains, including land tenure issues.



- 28 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                     .....................  _. .........   .   .   ....... ..... .... .. -   :>- r.............................  ......;a_..... .    . .   __._ ..... ;.. ....................... ..................c  ....
i~tai Staff Input.                                                                            VWIII
Time-          Staff      Cost, fees       Roads
.S   '   _   ..   '   ','.  __  ...  ...... . S_' __ .... ...................... ......... ' ................. ............................._._. ....................,. .,.'................,..........................  ............
frame-       Weeks         and ben.         Res.        Res. Engr   Env. Spec.             Soc.          Audit    Inst. Dev.'   Agricul-               Other         Uniden-
(US$)         Engr.           Cons.                        Scientist                                       tare                          tified2
Identification -    July '88 -          222        437,026            7                               5              9              2             23                              10             166
Appraisal            Dec. '90
Neg. -               Jan. '91 -          59         142,327            6                              2              4              2              1                               1             43
effectiveness        Dec. '91
Supervision          Jan. '92 -         342         845,433           81             58              53              13             12            41              12              16             56
June '95
Completion           July '95-           6           6,124                                                                                         2
March '96
Total               |              |   625         1,430,910          94             58              60              26         11 6              67 1            12              27             265
Supervision                                     98                             l                         2                                  l_                          2,472_l
I / Institutional Development includes 30 staff weeks of Task Manager's time during supervision stage, from July 1992 to June 1995.
2 / Unidentified includes all of Task Manager time from identification through the first year and a half of supervision (June 1992).



- 29 -
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3310-ME)
Table 12: Prect Financing by Loan, Government and Community
Total
Project       Loan          Estimated Government Financing       Community'
Cost       Financing                                             Financing
________                       National       State      Municipal2
US$ million
735          350           189          122            5            69
Percent         100%         47.6%        25.7%         16.6%         0.7%          9.4%
1 / Value of community contribution is estimated, it consists priinarily of unskilled labor and local materials, as well as
some cash contributions.
2/ Municipal government contribution limited to the state of Guerrero and Hidalgo (last year of project only) and to
the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs.



- 30-
APPENDIX A
Borrower's Contribution
MEXICO
DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3310-ME)
Final Execution Report - Executive Summary
Introduction
1.    Within the strategy framework to combat extreme poverty proposed by the Federal
Government through the Solidarity program, the Social Development Secretariat developed
the Decentralization and Regional Development (DRD) Project to back up the efforts
already made in the states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo and Oaxaca, identified as those
with the biggest social problems at a national level.
2.    Due to the high priority for this project, the Mexican government asked for the
financial support of the World Bank. The Bank loan of US$350 million was added to a
national contribution of US$772 million of federal and state participation, and US$241
million from the beneficiaries, for a total project cost of US$1,363 million.
3.    The loan was formalized on June 26, 1991 with the signature of loan number 3310-
ME by which a installment of five years was agreed upon starting from 1990 and ending in
1995, but which due to quick implementation of the project actually concluded in 1994.
4.    The request for financing to support the DRD Project originates from  the
relationship between the Mexican Government and the World Bank in the execution of
diverse investment projects to promote rural and regional development. In this respect, the
most important previous case was the financing of the Public Investment Program for Rural
Development (Programa de Inversiones Puiblicas para el Desarrollo Rural). In its three
different stages, this program, was characterized by the promotion of rural and
multisectorial development in the less developed states of the country. Other cases included
the joint efforts done through the National Plan for Rainfed Regions (Plan Nacional de
Atencion a Zonas de Temporal) and the Investment Program for the Development of the
Tropics (Programa de Inversiones para el Tr6pico Humedo).
Note: This Executive Summary was prepared by the World Bank from SEDESOL's two
volume Reporte Final de Ejecuci6n (no date).



- 31 -
Project Objectives, Strategies, Policies and Goals
5.    The Decentralization and Regional Development Project is part of the Solidarity
Program, which has similar objectives and strategies.
6.    The Project's main objective was to rise the living conditions of the poorest
population of the four states, basically rural groups, through better access to basic services,
improvement of productive activities, and access to better technologies. All of this was to
be done in the context of improving the efficiency in the implementation and development
of programs and activities from the state and municipal administrations, as well as vigorous
promotion of the decentralization of programs, mostly in favor of municipalities and rural
communities. As part of the specific complementary objectives of the project, it was
proposed to help the preservation of the historical and archeological heritage of the states
involved, and promote the strengthening of the state and municipal finances.
7.    The project had the following four components:
a) Infrastructure. Through this component, the social, support and productive
infrastructure programs were financed, by which the poor population of the
states involved would improve their living conditions.
b) Restoration of Historical and Cultural Sites. In this component, activities
oriented to the exploration and restoration of archeological and historical sites
were promoted, selected by the National Institute of Anthropology and History
and the state governments in the states of the project.
c) Environmental Protection. This component developed  activities for the
preservation of the environment in the four states involved. Within this
component, the Consideration and Development Program for the Lacandona
Jungle, in the state of Chiapas, was included.
d) Strengthening of State and Municipal Finances. This component was to support
the development of activities to help the strengthening of state and municipal
finances in order to allow the states and the municipalities a bigger financial
capacity in order to strength their programs of poverty alleviation and promotion
of development, and to result in less financial dependency on federal resources.
8.    The investment made in the framework of the DRD during its execution represented
26.4% of the total budget of the Solidarity Program in the four states involved, equivalent
to N$9,552.9 million, which confirms the high priority that the government gave to the four
federal states which have the highest levels of poverty.
9.    The largest expenditure of the Solidarity Program was in Hidalgo, which absorbed
31.9% of the N$1,611.2 million spent during 1990-94 in the state; in Guerrero, Oaxaca and
Chiapas, the equivalent was 23% and 27% of the budgets (N$2,185.0, N$2,858.5 and
N$2,898.2 million expenditures).



- 32-
10.   The distribution of the resources of the project within the four states slightly favored
Oaxaca with N$723.8 million (29% of total DRD investment); Chiapas had N$688.8
million; Guerrero N$598.0, and Hidalgo, N$513.2 million (27%, 24% and 20%,
respectively).
11.   The DRD received an important boost, specially during the first three years of its
executions since the investments made in 1990 for N$230.2 million grew 47% in 1991 and
in 1992 they were increased 86% in relation to the previous year. There was an annual
growth rate of 3.7% for 1993 and 1994 (N$651.4 and N$675.6 million respectively).
12.   This policy and the response capacity showed by the state and municipal
governments and other agencies involved in the development of the project, but most of all
the responsible participation of the communities, permitted the compliance with the
execution schedule and the goals proposed by DRD.
13.  In relation to the goals achieved in global terms, the investment made during the
execution of the project was N$2,537.3 million of which 94.0% was to component A
(infrastructure), 0.5% in component B (cultural sites), 3.3% in component C (environmental
protection), and 2.2% in component D (strengthening state and municipal finances),
achieving the completion of 85,861 public works and activities of different sorts, including
those in programs of drinking water, educational infrastructure, schools, rural roads,
electrification, and sewage.
Financial Issues
14.   The project was financed partially by the World Bank loan of US$350 million.
Originally, the project had six categories of eligible expenses and financing. During the
execution of the project, several concepts not included in the original loan were covered.
Therefore, the Bank was asked to modify the original loan contract on November 9, 1992.
The contractual modification approved by the Bank added three extra categories of
expenditure.
15.   The importance of this modification was that it allowed the execution of public
works by the communities. This new modality allowed the Bank to apply new ways of
community participation and a new altemative of implementation of social-oriented
projects. These changes in implementation in the DRD were included as part of the Bank's
new project's guidelines established in 1995.
16.   Additionally, during the operation of the project two other categories were
suggested (November 16, 1994 and December 5, 1994) for the Solidarity Municipal Funds
and the Worthy School (Escuela Digna) program. Both of these programs were very
successful since they allowed the decentralization of the resources to the municipalities, in
addition to strengthening community participation in the activities proposed.
17.   After the analysis made by the Bank of these programs, additional funds were
approved, increasing an original amount for them of US$50 million to US$146 million. The
Appraisal Report made by the Bank established a project cycle of six years, starting in 1991



- 33 -
and finishing in 1996. However, it was reduced by almost two years since the funds were
spent in about four years (1991-1994) with the last disbursement made in August of 1995.
18.   The schedule of disbursements was the following:
.  1990-1991 US$1,73.4 million, 4.9%  more than estimated in the Appraisal
Report;
*  1992, US$105.8 million, 5.8% more than estimated;
*  1993, US$91.8 million, 8.2% more than estimated;
*  1994, US$79 million, 75.5% more than estimated.
19.   The reduction in time of disbursement reflects the success of the project, and the
convenience of establishing Resident Missions in different countries with decision making
and payment capacity.
20.   The disbursements by components were made in the following way: US$317.1
million to the Infrastructure Component; US$3.1 million to the Restoration of Cultural and
HIistorical Sites Component; US$16.7 million to the Environmental Protection Component
(which included US$15.5 million of the Lacandona Jungle Project; and US$13.1 million for
the Institutional Development Program (which included the Strengthening of Municipal and
State Finances).
21.  In national currency, the US$350 million are equivalent to N$2161.7 million of
which 52.5% were financed by the World Bank and 47.5% by the Mexican Government.
22.   These figures do not include other kind of expenses related to the Project (such as
salaries for Project Coordination Unit employees, airfare, etc.) and works that were rejected
because they did not followed the Bank's design or procurement criteria. Therefore, the
Mexican Government participation was about 60% and the Bank's participation, 40%.
23.   The most important project activity, with 47% of disbursements, included drinking
water, electricity, rural roads, schools, drainage and production projects, equivalent to
N$1058.4 million.
24.   The other categories in importance were those including education and Municipality
Financing, which had 41.7% (N$949.8 million). The remaining 11.3% of disbursements
were used to finance Restoration of Historical and Cultural Sites and Institutional
Development.
25.   On a state basis, most of the investments were in Chiapas, which had 30%
(equivalent to N$616.8 million), followed by Oaxaca with 27.7% (N$612.9 million),
Guerrero (22.7%, N$499 million), and Hidalgo (18.8%, N$423.4 million). The Central
Authority accounted for the balance expenditure.
26.   The distribution of the funds reflects a high level of decentralization of resources to
each state where each activity was proposed, and where the payments were made. In
addition, 99.9% of the contracts were awarded to regional and/or national companies. Only



- 34 -
one international public bid took place (for consulting services of the institutional
development component, which was awarded to a Chilean company).
27.   Most of the works were contracted thorough a process of public bids which
represented 42.2% of the individual works and 33.7% of the resources, and by an invitation
process of at least three bidders, which represented 27.6% of the works and 14.8 of the
total cost.
28.   The mechanisms and procedures applied for control and management of the project
allowed a better tracking of the works on the quality control, financing and bids in more
than 100,000 activities and/or projects implemented during the project. For this purpose,
the data base used can access expenditure information according to exchange rate, date of
payment, and other important information of any of the projects or activities implemented.
29.   An operational manual was created specifically for this project which contained rules
of procedures with the Bank and national rules for the budget, follow-up, bidding
procedures, payments and auditing. In effect, it established the terms of reference of the
project.
Conclusions
30.   Considering the level of execution of the program and financial goals (116%
compliance in relation to what was specified in the Loan Agreement), and on the other hand
the conclusion of the project including full disbursement in 1994, and the little experience of
the municipalities and communities in making public works, the objective of fighting
poverty in the selected states were accomplished satisfactorily.
31.   It would not have been possible to accomplish the objectives without proper
coordination between and within government agencies at various levels, and with the
monitoring for the control and progress of the project. The direction of the expenditure
allowed priority care of the poorest and mostly rural population. Obviously, the activities of
DRD must be strengthened, as agreed in its second phase, which must constitute the
development base of social development in the states included.
32.   The project has been very productive in achievements and experiences that allowed
substantive advance in strategies and methodologies for the development of the following
social policy driven by the Mexican Government:
a) Encourage at the national level the necessity of advancing the strengthening of
federalism through a policy of deeper decentralization of resources to the
municipalities and the communities in the country.
b) The establishment of institutional development programs for the improvement of
technical and administrative capacity of the municipalities and government
agencies, as a policy of the Social Development Secretariat.



- 35 -
c) Development of methodologies for the support of the transfer of resources and
responsibilities to the local authorities through equity and transparency schemes.
33.   The following are the recommendations for the second phase of the project:
a) Concentrate efforts in promoting the municipality as the main executive agency,
using this strength to accomplish broad goals, unlike partial approaches which
channels resources in a sectoral fashion.
b) Substantial strengthening of institutional development programs of the
municipalities, especially in those areas concerning training and equipment, that
allow them to have more efficient management of their expenses.
c) Extend the coverage of the project to other states with poverty conditions, in
order to cover with similar policies, methodology and processes, most
municipalities of the country.















I4. - I At      j
>" e;p, -irt   N_1-                  L) -, ''''-
T vs          1               I -. I. C( 'k



