Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15065
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2295-KE)
NOVEMBER 1, 1995
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
August 1991
KSh 28.0 = US$ 1.00
KSh 1 = US$ 0.0357
December 1994
KSh 44.84 = US$ 1.00
KSh 1 = US$ 0.0223
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB    -African Development Bank
ASAL   -Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
CHE    - Commission for Higher Education
DCA    - Development Credit Agreement
EdSAC  - Education Sector Adjustment Credit
ESAF   - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (IMF)
ESW     - Economic and Sector Work
GOK    -Government of Kenya
GDP    -Gross Domestic Product
ICR     -Implementation Completion Report
IDA     -International Development Association
IMF     -Internation Monetary Fund
KIE    -Kenya Institute of Education
LSP     -Letter of (Education) Sector Policy
MOE    -Ministry of Education
ODA    -Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PPTG    -Policy and Planning Task Group
PFP     -Policy Framework Paper
PIP     -Public Investment Program
PR      -President's Report
PTTC   -Primary Teacher Training College
PU      -Planning Unit, MOE
SDR     -Special Drawing Rights
SIP     -Sector Investment Plan
SLS     -Student Loan Scheme
SOE    -Statement of Expenditure
TSC     -Teachers Service Commission
UIP    -Universities Investment Project
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
UTs    -Untrained Teachers



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary ......................................................                                                      (i)-(iv)
Part I: Program Implementation Assessment
A. Program  Objectives .............................................................1
B. Achievement of Program  Objectives .............................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Program .............................................................8
D. Bank Performance .............................................................9
E. Borrower Performance ............................................................                                    10
F. Assessment of Outcome, Sustainability and Future Reform ................................................. 10
G. Key Lessons Learned .............................................................11
Part Il: Statistical Annexes
Annex 1: ICR Date
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .....................................................                                     12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                            ................................................... 13
Table 3: Project Timetable .....................................................                                        15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................ 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                          ........................................ 17
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .....................................................                              20
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants                           .................................................... 21
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................................                             23
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................                                 24
Annex 2: Sector Specific Data
Table 1: Ministry of Education Recurrent Budget ........................................................... ..... 26
Table 2: Subsectoral Allocation of the Ministry of Education's Recurrent Budget
(Percent Shares) .27
Table 3: Primary Education Recurrent Budget .28
Table 4: Primary Education: Enrollments and Teachers, 1986-94 .29
Table 5: Secondary Education: Enrollments and Teachers, 1986-94 .30
Table 6: Gross Enrollment Rates in Primary Schools, 1989-94 .31
Table 7: Gross Enrollment Rates in Secondary Schools, 1989-94 .32
Appendices
Appendix A: Mission Aide Memoire .33
Appendix B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR .37
Appendix C: Tranche Release Memorandums .40
Appendix D: Recent Government of Kenya Announcements on Cost Recovery .60
Appendix E: Map .62
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CR. 2295-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Sector Adjustment
Program in Kenya, for which a sector adjustment credit (Cr 2295-KE) in the amount of SDR 75.9
million (US$100 million) was approved on September 13 1991 and made effective on September
27, 1991.
The credit was closed on March 10, 1995. The original closing date was June 30, 1994.
Due to the addition of IDA reflows to the second and third tranches, the size of the credit was
US$203.4 million. Appreciation of the SDR accounted for about US$ 7 million of the increase.
The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by February 19, 1992;
subsequent tranches were released on December 7, 1993 and December 13, 1994 and the credit
was fully disbursed by March 4, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Reema Nayar, Population and Human Resources Division,
Eastern Africa Department of the Africa Region and reviewed by Messrs. Jacob van Lutsenburg
Maas (Division Chief) and Shahid Yusuf (Department Lead Economist). It is based on material in
the project file, additional data obtained from the field, and discussions with Bank Staff. A
mission comprising Ms. Nayar and Mr. James Kamunge (Education Consultant, Resident Mission,
Nairobi) discussed a draft ICR with the Borrower in August 1995. The aide-memoire of the
mission is included as Appendix A. The borrowver prepared its own evaluation, the summary of
which is included as Appendix B to the ICR



EVALUATION SUMMARY
Education Sector Adeustment Credit
(Credit 2295 - KE)
Introduction
1.    Prior Bank lending to Kenya for the education sector had consisted of six investment projects since
1966. These projects supported construction of buildings, the provision of equipment, technical assistance
and training. The Bank had supported Kenya's adjustment efforts since 1986 through a series of sector
adjustment operations. EdSAC was the sixth sector adjustment operation in Kenya and the first in the
education sector.
Program Objectives
2.     The principal objective of the credit was to support the Kenyan Government in the implementation
of its education sector reform program which sought: (a) to reduce the rate of growth of the education
recurrent budget; (b) to expand access to education and increase retention at the primary and secondary
levels, especially for children from disadvantaged areas; (c) to enhance and improve the quality and
relevance of education at all levels; and (d) to strengthen sector management, planning and information
systems.
3.     Specific actions supported by the credit included: limiting the growth of the primary and secondary
teaching forces, limiting new admissions to the public universities, introducing a direct charge on all public
university students and reforming the loan scheme, re-introducing the public financing of textbooks to
primary schools, strengthening the Ministry of Education's Planning Unit, and strengthening the
Commission for Higher Education to oversee the development and financing of public universities. Policy
measures supported in the credit were reflected in Kenya's fourth Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for
1991/92-1993/94 (and subsequently updated in the PFP for 1994-1996). Some higher education conditions
were strengthened and extended through the parallel Universities Investment Project (UIP) which was to
support improvements in education at the public universities.
4.     Evaluation of program obiectives: The objectives of the program identified the key issues
confronting the sector at the time, were important for the country and consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. However, some of them (example: access, quality) were stated very broadly and
measurable targets were not set up.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.     Due to an addition of IDA reflows to the second and third tranches, the size of the credit doubled
and final disbursements totaled $203.4 million. As part of an amendment signed in March 1994 adding
Kenya's FY94 IDA reflow to the third tranche, the closing date was extended from June 30, 1994 to March
10, 1995. Release of the second tranche was delayed by over a year, initially due to delay in sectoral
reform (in particular, the student loan scheme), and subsequently because an adequate macroeconomic
framework was not in place. The third tranche was also delayed primarily because of delay in
implementing higher education reform; it was released in December 1994 instead of September 1993.
6.     Overall, the objectives of the credit were partially achieved. Objective (a) above was most directly
addressed by the credit. Achievement of stabilization of education's recurrent budget was substantial and
the slowver growth of teachers and university enrollments undoubtedly contributed to this result. A process
of expenditure control was started. It is important to note, however, that, (i) budgetary achievements were
modest relative to targets in the Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), particularly if the accumulation of arrears
beginning in 1992/93 by public educational institutions (paragraph 25) are taken into account; (ii)
sustaining an appropriate budget share will depend on the Government's ability to introduce deeper reforms
in the areas of teacher recruitment and training (paragraph 17) and to successfully implement new
financing mechanisms to ensure appropriate cost-sharing in university education (paragraphs 25,26).



ii
Achievement of the strengthening of sector management, planning and information systems has been
partial; institutional strengthening at the higher education level through the restructuring of CHE was most
directly addressed by this credit (paragraph 22). Contrary to objective (b) primary gross enrollment rates
declined substantially, from 89.7% in 1991 to 82.4% in 1994. Falling participation in primary education
was inadequately addressed during the EdSAC period and is now a pressing issue. Towards the objective
of improved quality, some central government financing and provision of textbooks to was reintroduced and
the share of untrained teachers in the primary teaching force was reduced substantially. Quality was not
defined in terms of output indicators and therefore achievement of this objective cannot be assessed.
7.     Most specific objectives in the policy matrix, other than in the area of higher education reform,
were substantially met. In the case of higher education reform, there were significant delays in achieving
specific objectives (paragraphs 22-27) and an effective loan scheme is yet to be established. In the case of
primary education, targets for the size of the teaching force and on the size and composition of entrants into
Primary Teacher Training Colleges (PTTCs) were substantially met. An attempt is being made to move to
a need-based policy for teacher training. However, sustainability will require deeper reforn in the area of
teacher recruitment and training (paragraphs 17,18). Some central government financing and provision of
textbooks was reintroduced under the credit. Although there were some delays in distribution and shortfalls
in achieving targets, several schools in disadvantaged areas received textbooks. This is likely to have
improved quality somewhat and relieved poor parents. The cost-effectiveness of this intervention was not
adequately evaluated. While Government financing of textbooks and other effective inputs should be
continued in the future, alternative methods of textbook provision should be explored better.
8.     Ceilings for admissions to public universities were met and in fact admissions in the last two years
have been substantially below EdSAC ceilings. The streamnlining of policy formulation and university
planning, budgeting and financing, and investment and development planning began under the Policy and
Planning Task Group (PPTG) and is continuing under a restructured CHE which took over these functions
one and a half years late on July 1, 1994. PPTG performance in the interim was weakened by the slow
responsiveness from the public universities. The public universities fell into arrears during this period
(paragraph 25) and the preparation of their financial plans was also delayed significantly. A restructured
CHE, has now begun to function as an effective intermediary with respect to public universities and in
particular performed effectively in the coordination of the university financing and development plans in
1994.
9.     Finally, the most difficult reforms have been in the area of higher education financing, specifically
increased cost recovery including the establishment of an effective loan scheme. Prior to the credit, there
wvere no direct charges to students at public universities. Although there was a Student's Loan Scheme
(SLS), it functioned primarily as a grant scheme available to all students. All students attending public
universities received the maximum amount of the loan. Recovery rates had been about 4% and the nominal
real rate of interest had been 2% since the inception of the scheme in 1974. In a significant step, a direct
charge of KSh. 6000 was introduced for the first time under the credit (this was a condition for Board
presentation) and a bursary scheme was also introduced to assist poor students in meeting it. As a result of
high inflation, however, the direct charge represented about 5% of unit costs by the end of the credit period.
Direct cost recovery thus actually declined during the credit period and in the absence of radically improved
performance of the loan scheme (next paragraph), the same is true of cost-recovery more broadly defined.
10.    Progress on loan scheme reformn was negligible during the credit period. Recovery rates remained
low (approximately 4%/o) during the course of the credit, the nominal rate of interest remained 2% despite
the LSP objective of gradually increasing it. Reform of the loan scheme was not defined in termns of
specific targets and clear steps were not built in to the design. Greater attention could also have been paid
at an earlier stage to the fact that the existing institutions were too weak and lacked the incentives to
achieve an instant turnaround in recovery. Alternatives to the existing loan scheme were not explored; the
huge public subsidies implicit in the scheme wvere not addressed so that the scheme was not restricted to



iii
those without means. Steps in reform of the scheme were to be determined following the completion of a
review which was delayed. Agreement on a policy statement and an accompanying action plan on higher
education financing was finally achieved in May 1993 (more than a year and a half into the credit).
Implementation of the action plan was behind schedule, however, particularly before the closing date of the
credit, although some significant announcements of policy change have very recently been made (next two
paragraphs).
11.   The rigidity of charges to students in the face of rising prices partly contributed to the
accumulation of arrears by public universities beginning in 1992/93. The need to address these in the
context of satisfactory financial plans (a condition of third tranche release) led to a commitment to
introduce new financing measures in the academic year beginning in 1995; it was on the basis of this
commitment that the third tranche was released. In what has to be considered a very significant step in
university financing, the Government has reeently announced new cost-sharing policies. According to
these, "non-needy" students could pay upto 42% of the direct costs of university education which includes
the full cost of food and boarding as well as direct tuition charges (a total of KSh. 50,000). Other students
will be eligible for means-tested loans of upto KSh. 42000. All students will be required to pay a minimum
direct charge of KSh. 8000 towards tuition with bursaries provided to those who cannot pay this sum. The
across the board govermment grant is now KSh. 70000 or 58% of total costs. The new policies, although
late, are consistent with the Government's Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988, its policy statement and action
plan of May 1993, its PFP (1994-96) and policies in the acceptable financing plans submitted in the
context of third tranche release. These reforms represent a major improvement, depending on how they are
implemented. Kenya is probably the only African country where as a matter of policy, the Government's
share of the cost of public university education is as low as 58%.
12.    There has been some improvement in the collection rate of student loans in the past year although
total amounts due have also been increasing. The Government has recently decided to charge a higher
interest rate of 4% for loans disbursed in the academic year beginning in 1995; a modest step in relation to
its objective of eventually achieving positive real interest rates on student loans. With the enactment of the
Higher Education Loans Board Act on July 21, 1995, the functions formerly carried out by the SLS unit in
the MOE are being transferred to the new Loans Board. The Act grants enhanced legal powers for loan
recovery and assigns the responsibility of determining the interest rate on student loans to the Board. The
Loans Board will handle means-tested bursaries as well as means-tested loans. To establish a credible loan
scheme, the government will need to take decisive and immediate action on default. It should also explore
ways of attracting commercial banks to assume some of the commercial risk.
13    Less than optimal Government commitment and ownership was an important factor affecting the
program. In part, this was because of the politically challenging nature of some of the reforms and the lack
of direct support from the credit to the education sector. However, the program was also underdefined in
some key areas (access, quality indicators, higher education financing reform). While a somewhat
underdefined multiple tranche adjustment operation may be a good risk in a country with strong institutions
and strong commitment, in the Kenyan context of w eak institutions and commitment, it was a highly risky
gamble. A substantial dialogue in the area of higher education financing began in the Spring of 1993.
EdSAC was used to ensure implementation of macroeconomic reform in the context of second tranche
release. On the other hand, on the sectoral side, commitments to act (on higher education financing) were
accepted in lieu of action on the ground in the release of the second and third tranches. EdSAC was the
first attempt to key in on important sector policy issues and thus represented an important shift in the
Bank's approach to the sector. Bank performance in identification was thus highly satisfactory. On
balance Bank and Borrower performance in preparation are judged as deficient, while Bank performance in
supervision is assessed as satisfactory. On balance, and bearing in mind the program's challenges,
Borrower performance in implementation is assessed as satisfactory. (Paragraphs 32-34).



iv
14.   Arriving at an overall assessment for this operation is difficult, because of the numerous objectives,
the generality with which some of them were stated, and the question of weights one would assign to
"process" as distinguired from product. For the purpose of reaching an overall assessment, the following
are taken as the most important objectives: (a) contributing to fiscal adjustment by containing the growth of
the MoE recurrent budget; (b) increasing "access" (enrollment) and quality at the primary level; (c) more
equitable and sustainable financing arrangements for public university education, and improved
coordination of public universities. While financing arrangements "on the ground" for higher education
improved at the time of Board presentation, they deteriorated during the period of credit effectiveness and
university financial results and SLS collection on the ground during the credit period were disappointing. If
implemented successfully, however, the new higher education financing policies publicly announced by the
Government in July 1995 could be the most significant contribution of the program. CHE has begun to
function as an effective intermediary with respect to public universities. Giving equal weight to these three
areas, attributing substantial importance in the overall assessment to the policy announcements on
university cost recovery (as distinguished from results "on the ground"), considering the politically
challenging nature of the reforms and recognizing EdSAC as the beginning of a broader and longer reform
program, the overall assessment is, on balance, satisfactory. On the other hand, if a higher weight was
given to access and quality outcomes in primary education (in view of its importance for development) or
more importance is attributed to "results on the ground" the overall assessment wvould be, on balance,
unsatisfactory. Sustainability of the program is uncertain and will require deeper reform in the area of
teacher employment and education, the development of a sound loan scheme, and the successful
unplementation of new higher education financing policies. Performance of CHIE and progress in higher
education financing reform will continue to be monitored under UIP.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.   Adequate up-front sector work, preparation and dialogue needed to ensure a well defined sector
reform program. Tranche release conditions in a sector adjustment operation such as EdSAC should be
strong and adequate targets specified. Particularly in the Kenyan context of weak commitment and
institutions, a series of smaller well-specified single tranche operations may be preferable to an
underdefined multiple tranche operation. To be sustainable, reforms should pay greater attention to
underlying incentives (such as individuals' decisions to become teachers or to get a public university
education). Particularly when a turnaround in the performance of existing institutions is desired (e.g. loan
scheme), attention to institutional deficiencies should be rigorous and altematives should be explored. To
improve quality of educmion, future reforms should examine alternatives to centralized decision making on
and public provision of school inputs; cost effective approaches more responsive to local school and
community needs should be examined. Appropriate indicators should be set up and interventions
adequately evaluated. Studies that are not formal requirements for tranche releases tend to be of varying
quality and actions emerging from them late or absent. If important, these should be done up-front. Future
reform should address access by the poor to primary and secondary education, reforms in teacher
recruitment and training, cost-effective use of school inputs by moving decision-making on these (including
staffing) closer to beneficiaries, the introduction of a commercially-based loan scheme for higher education,
and the establishme2t of more sustainable financing mechanisms at all levels of education. Future support
for the Government's reforms should include more direct support to the education sector. An investment
operation which should support some of these reforms is currently being prepared.



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.    Macroeconomic Developments Prior to EdSAC: Following a period of serious macroeconomic
imbalances and low growth during the first half of the eighties, Kenya began implementing a major
stabilization and adjustment program in 1986. This program was supported by the IMF through an ESAF
(covering the period 1989-91), and by the Bank through a series of sector adjustment operations in
agriculture, industry and finance. Output and investment responded, with real GDP growth at market
prices averaging over 6 percent during the period 1985-88, and 4.4 and 4.5 percent in 1989 and 1990,
respectively. However, Kenya relied excessively on foreign savings to finance current account and
budgetary deficits. To sustain the economic recovery and to reduce the fragility of the economy, Kenya
needed to rationalize and control the growth in public expenditures and to encourage export diversification.
These objectives formed the agenda of the last year of the IMF's ESAF program in 1991 and new IDA-
supported adjustment efforts in agriculture and export development. In this regard and as the
macroeconomic framework underpinning EdSAC, a fourth Policy Framework paper (PFP) outlined the
Government's adjustment program for the period 1991/92-1993/94.
2.    Education Sector Developments: The rapid expansion in Kenya's education system had been
accompanied by the emergence of four broad sets of issues in recent years (a) The rapidly growing size of
the school age population and the high priority accorded to education by the Kenyan government and
households contributed to rising public and private expenditure on education. In 1990/91, public
expenditure on education accounted for 35% of the government's recurrent expenditure and about 25% of
total expenditure and had grown faster than other sectors in recent years. Major factors driving the recent
increase in expenditures had been a rapidly rising primary teaching force and a rapid expansion in
university education. (b) Primary and secondary school enrollment rates, although higher than other
countries in the region and with comparable income levels, showed considerably high variation across the
country. There was preliminary evidence that poor families found it difficult to meet direct and opportunity
costs so that drop-out was high among children from poor families and that participation rates were be
falling. (c) To ensure the quality of education, some serious shortcomings in the new 8:4:4 curriculum
(introduced in 1985) needed to be addressed and its effective implementation ensured. There was also a
serious shortage of textbooks in many primary schools in disadvantaged areas. (d) Finally, management
practices and planning capacity had not kept pace with the expansion of the education sector. University
development and expansion, in particular, was lacking a control mechanism for planning, programming,
financing and coordination.
3.    Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988 (Education and Manpower Training for the Next Decade and
Beyond) constituted the Government's policy statement for the education sector. It emphasized increased
access to education and provision of quality education for sustainable living couched in the reality of
Kenya's macroeconomic and financial constraints. In its Letter of Education Sector Policy, dated July 29,
1991, the Government outlined recent and proposed reforms in the education sector which included the
implementation of a number of recommendations of the Sessional Paper.
The Education Sector Adjustment Credit: Statement of Objectives and Brief Description



2
4.     The principal objective of the education sector adjustment credit was to support the Kenyan
Government in the implementation of a time-slice of its longer term reform program which sought to: (a)
reduce the rate of growth of the education recurrent budget to a sustainable level, and a level commensurate
with overall government expenditure targets; (b) expand access to education and increase retention at the
primary and secondary levels, especially for children from disadvantaged areas and, following a period of
consolidation, a phased expansion of tertiary education; (c) enhance and improve the quality and relevance
of education at all levels; and (d) strengthen sector management, planning and information systems.
Specific actions supported by the credit included: limiting the growth of the primary and secondary
teaching forces, limiting new admissions to the public universities, introducing a direct charge on all public
university students and reforming the student loan scheme, re-introducing the public financing of textbooks
to primary schools, strengthening of the Ministry of Education's Planning Unit, and strengthening the
Commission for Higher Education (CHE) to oversee the development and financing of public universities.
5.     Policy measures supported in the credit were reflected in Kenya's fourth PFP for 1991/92-1993/94
(and subsequently updated in the PFP for 1994-96. A parallel Universities Investment Project (UIP),
approved a few months later, was to support improvement of education at the public universities while
strengthening and extending some of the higher education conditions in EdSAC.
6.    The first education sector adjustment operation for Kenya, EdSAC was originally designed as a
quick-disbursing credit of US $100 million. The unusual prominence of the education sector in Kenya's
macroeconomic scene and the critical need to reduce both public expenditures and the budget deficit
provided the rationale for the negative list/quick disbursing approach. The credit was to be spread over
three tranches: the first tranche was released in September 1991 following approval of the credit by the
Board while release of the second and third tranches were expected to follow supervision missions in
September 1992 and 1993 respectively. As a result of the addition of IDA reflows to the second and third
tranches final disbursements under the program were approximately double, at $203.4 million' and the
closing date of the credit was extended from June 30 1994 to March 10, 1995.
Evaluation of EdSAC Objectives
7.    The objectives of the program identified the key issues confronting the sector at the time, were
important for the country and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. However, some of
them (example: access, quality) were stated very broadly and measurable targets were not set up.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
Macroeconomic Objectives
8.     An important objective of the adjustment program was to introduce fiscal restraint and expenditure
control into the education sector budget. Achievement of this objective is assessed as substantial. To
sustain these achievements, however, much remains to be done (paragraph 11).
9.    The credit provided Kenya with urgently needed balance-of-payments support. Since tranche
releases required, in addition to satisfactory progress in the carrying out of the reform program and the
completion of a set of sector specific actions, "that the macro-economic framework of the borrower be
consistent with the objectives of the program," the credit helped to ensure government implementation of
important macroeconomic reforms. This was particularly evident in the context of second tranche release
in 1993 which was delayed for more than a year, and seven months after the satisfaction of sector specific
conditions, until the government fulfilled certain macroeconomic policy measures (Appendix C, Tranche
Release Memorandum). Toward the end of 1993, the Government put in place a program, described in its
Appreciation of the SDR against the dollar also accounted for about $ 7 million of the increase



3
PFP for 1994-96 and in a one year ESAF arrangement with the IMF, aimed at renewed growth through
macroeconomic stabilization and accelerated structural reform. The end of the EdSAC period saw a
substantially improved macroeconomic climate.
Achievement of Broad Sectoral Objectives
Overall achievement of broad sectoral objectives has been partial.
10.   (a) Containing the Growth of Education's Recurrent Bud2et. Real expenditures on education
grew at a lower rate (approximately 5% per annum) over the credit period compared to the four years prior
to EdSAC (almost 7% per annum) and education's share in the Government's recurrent budget was
maintained at approximately 35%. The slower growth in teacher numbers and in university enrollments
supported by EdSAC clearly prevented an escalation in the education recurrent budget. The rate of growth
of public expenditures on university education was considerably slower during the EdSAC period relative
to the late eighties.
II.    A process of expenditure control wvas thus started during the credit period. It is important to note,
however, that (i) budgetary achievements were modest relative to objectives in the Letter of Sector Policy
(LSP), particularly if the accumulation of arrears by public educational institutions beginning in 1992/93
are taken into account. If these bills had been paid on time, the share of MoE in the recurrent budget could
have been larger', (ii) sustaining an appropriate budget share will depend on the Government's ability to
introduce deeper reform in the areas of teacher recruitment and training (paragraphs 17, 18) and to
successfully implement new financing mechanisms to ensure increased cost-sharing in higher education
(paragraphs 25, 26).
12.    (b) The expansion of access to education. Contrary to the government's objectives pnrmary and
secondary enrollment rates decreased during the credit period (Annex 2, Tables 6 and 7). MoE statistics
show a particularly severe decline in the gross enrollment rate in primary schools from 89.7% in 1991 to
82.4% in 1994. While a primary reason for the decline in enrollments (the increasing difficulty faced by
poor parents in meeting the costs of educating their children) was exogenous, progress in implementing
actions to address this objective was limited. A study on the extent and causes of non-enrollment and
dropout in primary school' was to be completed by September 1992 and an action plan emerging from it
was to be implemented. It was anticipated that a number of new policy measures would be in place by the
end of the credit period and a progress report documenting these would be prepared. However, the study
was only completed in March 1994 and an action plan is yet to emerge4. The study and implementation of
the action plan were not formal tranche release conditions. Clearly, the problem of falling participation
rates in primary education was inadequately addressed during the EdSAC period and is now becoming an
increasingly pressing problem. The government initiated a bursary programn for needy students in
secondary schools and universities. The bursary scheme for university students has enabled needy students
to attend despite the introduction of a direct charge.
13.    (c) Improved quality. Towards this objective, some central governnent financing of textbooks
was reintroduced. The share of untrained teachers in the teaching force has been reduced substantially,
from about 30 % in 1990 to 12% in 1995. On the other hand, progress on the revision of teaching and
2 Annex 1, Table 5. The LSP objective of a 3% growth rate ceiling of real expenditures on education was not realized. Real
expenditures on education grew at about 5% per annum. Moreover, beginning in 1992/93, the public universities (as
well as other public educational institutions) accunulated arrears partly due to fixed charges to students and high
inflation. When debts are accounted for, the share of public universities in the MOE budget was higher (Annex 1, Table
5).
3 The study was financed by ODA through the Strengthening of Primary Education (SPRED) project.
4 An operational action plan was last expected in July 1995. However, it is not yet available.



4
learning materials for the revised curriculum has been slow and the in-servicing of teachers has not yet
begun (Annex 1, Table 6); these were not formal conditions for tranche releases. Quality was not defined
in terms of output indicators (e.g. student achievement) and therefore the achievement of this objective
cannot be assessed. The cost-effectiveness of interventions to improve quality has not been adequately
evaluated, and there is inadequate country-specific sector work on the impact of these interventions.
14.   (d) strenathenina sector management, planning, budgeting and information systems. During
the credit period, actions were to be taken to strengthen the Conmmission for Higher Education (CHE), and
to improve information systems, policy analysis, and planning in the MoE. In July 1994 (one and a half
years late), a restructured CHE took over the functions of policy formulation and sector planning,
budgeting and financing from the Policy and Planning Task Group (PPTG). In the interim, however,
public universities fell into arrears. The preparation of university financial plans was also delayed
significantly although a restructured CHE performed effectively in the coordination of the university
financial and development plans in 1994 (paragraph 22). With regard to MOE strengthening, some
progress has been made (Annex 1, Table 6). However, much remains to be done as witnessed in the
continuous slippage of the primary education study, the textbook evaluation, the delay in providing
statistics on teacher demand and supply under Education VI, etc. Achievement of this objective is assessed
as partial.
Experience in Achieving Specific Objectives in the Policy Matrix
15.    The preparation of sector investment plan and the use of both development and recurrent
budgets to implement policy changes. Budget allocations for the education sector for 1992/93 and
1993/94 were monitored in the context of tranche releases and were found satisfactory to IDA. Provisions
were made for primnary school textbooks, CHE, institutional strengthening of the MOE and UIP at levels
acceptable to IDA and satisfactory Public Investment Programs were prepared. This objective has
therefore been substantially achieved.
16.   The reduction of the rate of growth of the primary teaching force, primarily controlling the
size and composition of admissions into the Primary Teacher Training Colleges (PTTCs) and by
ceasing to employ new untrained teachers. Although the number of teachers on the primary payroll
exceeded the ceiling throughout the credit period' (Annex 1, Table 5), the primary teacher payroll grew at a
much lower rate (approximately 1% per annum) during the credit period compared with the preceding five
years (almost 5% per annum). The government ceased to employ untrained teachers into the teaching force
after January 1991. Targets for the size and composition of admissions into PTTCs were generally met,
the major exception being a breach in the first year of the program which was corrected in subsequent years
(Annex 1, Table 5). The reduction in the proportion of untrained teachers (UT's) on the primary payroll
was beyond appraisal expectations (Annex 2, Table 4). This objective was thus substantially achieved.
Because the increase in trained teachers was larger than planned and also due to larger salary increases, the
primary wage bill increased substantially both in real terms and as a fraction of total expenditure in
primary education. As a result of the unanticipated stagnation in primary enrollments, however, the
objective of higher student-teacher ratios was not achieved.
17.    During the credit period, the size of the primary payroll was contained primarily by limiting new
intakes into the PTTCs and by ensuring that a minimum of 3000 of the new PITC intakes were practicing
UT's so that the number of new entrants into the payroll in each year was maintained at about 5000.
Delinking of PTTC graduation from public sector employment and increased cost-sharing in PTTCs have
5This was due to (a) an incorrect attrition rate used at appraisal, (b) an early breach in teacher numbers and PTTC admissions,
which was subsequently corrected. For 1994/95 higher payroll numbers were accepted because the closing date for
EdSAC was extended by a year because of the addition of IDA reflows to the third tranche and it was never intended that
the ceilings would continue



5
not yet been addressed6. The Government is still committed to hiring all graduates of PTTCs and continues
to construct new PTTCs: In its August 1994 progress report and in its recent project list, the MOE has
indicated that a new externally funded project (AfDB) includes the Construction of a PTTC at Kibabii:
however, the recently completed Education VI ICR argues that "there is no reason to build new PTTCs for
some time to come." Some cost-sharing in PTTCs was initiated in 1993: however annual cost to students
were smaller than the annual cost of secondary school education and the charges were inadequate for the
institutions to achieve balanced budgets. In a recent letter (Appendix D), the Government has informed the
World Bank that the MOE has recently recommended the charging of full cost of boarding and food at
teacher training institutes.
18.    The policy of admitting practicing UT's into PTTCs has reached its limit: only 5 UT's were
admitted into PTTCs in 1995. The PTTC intake in 1995 (6000) was lower than in preceding years and a
new policy whereby a significant fraction of PTTC intakes have consisted of applicants from understaffed
areas has been introduced. In short, while an attempt is being made to move to a need-based policy for
teacher training, the primary payroll could continue to grow faster than primary enrollments according to
the current teacher staffing and recruitment policies. The cost-effectiveness of the existing approach to
teacher training and recruitment should be evaluated.
19.   Increasing the availability of textbooks in primary schools by some public provision of books
to complement parental/student effort. To ensure that adequate textbooks are available in schools, the
credit supported the reintroduction of public sector provision of core textbooks to primary schools in
disadvantaged areas. Conditions for tranche releases included adequate budgetary provisions for the
textbook scheme as well as an evaluation of the scheme. Budgetary allocations for the scheme were
satisfactory to IDA. However, the LSP objective of devoting at least 3% of the primary education
recurrent budget to school equipment (including books) was not achieved (Annex 1, Table 5) and the share
of the primary education recurrent budget devoted to non-wage inputs fell during the credit period (Annex
2, Table 3). About 6423 schools in ASAL and other disadvantaged districts were reported to have
benefited from the scheme between 1991/92 and 1993/94. Some delays in book distribution were reported
and the desired textbook/student ratio was not achieved. Where textbooks were received and used, they
appear to have had a positive impact on teaching/learning and to have provided some relief to poor parents.
The evaluation of the textbook scheme was late and limited in methodology. It did not evaluate the cost-
effectiveness of the scheme nor recommend the most cost-effective form of future assistance from GOK.
Achievement of this objective is assessed as partial. Government financing of textbooks and other effective
inputs should be continued in the future; however alternatives to centralized determination and provision
should be examined.
20.    Containing the growth of publicly funded secondary school teachers. Secondary payroll
ceilings and ceilings on non-teaching staff were observed throughout the credit period7. The rate of growth
of the secondary teacher numbers was considerably slower than in the years preceding the credit. This
objective was thus fully achieved However secondary school enrollments did not increase and the student
teacher ratio fell.
21.    Limiting future admissions into public universities Ceilings on first year admissions to public
universities were conditions for the release of the tranches. The ceilings were observed (Annex 1, Table 5);
in fact admissions into public universities in last two academic years have been lower than in the previous
two years even though a 3% annual growth was originally planned. Lower than projected student numbers
These policies were in Sessional Paper No. 6 and the LSP. They may have been difficult to introduce in a program in which a
significant fraction of new intakes into PTTCs were UT's who were already employed in the teaching force.
7As in the case of the primary payroll, there is considerable fluctuation in payroll numbers throughout the year. Numbers
reported in semi-annual progress reports were generally below the ceilings. Numbers for March 31 of each year (Annex
2, Table 5) were higher than the ceilings.



6
were a primary factor behind restrained university expenditure as cost sharing during the period actually
declined in real terms.
22.    The streamlining of policy formulation and sector planning, budgeting and financing, and
investment and development planning to ensure that future expansion and financing of public
universities occurs in a more coordinated and planned fashion. Tranche release conditions included (a)
implementation of an acceptable plan to restructure CHE to effectively handle the planning, programming,
budgeting and financing of public universities (second tranche), (b) effective performance of CHE in
overseeing the planning, programming, budgeting and financing of public universities, including the
handling of grants from the public sector as well as donors; and the preparation of satisfactory financing
and investment plans for the public universities (third tranche). A restructured CHE took over the
functions of policy formulation and university planning, budgeting and financing from PPTG one and a half
years late on July 1, 1994. PPTG performance in the interim was weakened by the slow responsiveness
from the public universities. The public universities fell into arrears during this period (paragraph 25) and
the preparation of their financial plans was also delayed by a year and a half. CH-E has now begun to
function as an effective intermediary with respect to public universities and in particular performed
effectively in the coordination of the university financing and development plans in 1994. The financial
plans submitted in September 1994 identified measures (including substantially increased cost-sharing) to
ensure balanced operating budgets beginning in the 1995/96 fiscal year and the retirement of indebtedness
by the end of the three year period. With effect from July 1, 1994, the Government appointed the Secretary
of CHE as Officer Accounting for grants allocated to the public universities. At the same time, starting
with the 1994/95 Recurrent Estimates, the Government has shifted from the previous arrangement of an
itemized Government budget allocation for each of the public universities, to a lump-sum grant for each of
the public universities. Budget implementation under the new arrangements have worked smoothly.
Performance of CHE and the public universities and the implementation of the financial plans will continue
to be monitored under UIP. Effective performance of CHE over the medium to long term will depend on
the amendment of the Universities' Act to regularize its additional functions and to harmonize the acts
relating to CHE and the public universities (which has not yet been tabled in Parliament).
23.    Establishment of an effective student loan scheme, as well as much more direct cost recovery,
to reduce the financial burden of higher education on the exchequer. Prior to the credit, there were no
direct charges to students at public universities. Although there was a Student's Loan Scheme (SLS), it
functioned primarily as a grant scheme available to all students. All students attending public universities
received the maximum amount of the loan. The nominal rate of interest had been 2% since the inception of
the scheme and in 1974 recovery rates were low (about 4%). A direct charge of KSh. 6000 payable by all
students attending public universities (and a bursary scheme to assist poor students in meeting it) was
introduced under the credit in the 1991/92 academic year (this was a condition for board presentation);
charging all public university students a minimum of KSh. 6000 in the two subsequent academic years
were conditions for releasing the second and third tranches. The introduction of a direct charge was a
significant step. However, as a result of high inflation, this direct charge which amounted to roughly 11%
of the cost of a student's university education in 199 s, represented about 5% of unit costs by the end of the
credit period. The direct charge has also been lower than the cost borne by secondary school students
(currently about Ksh 30,000) a year and is significantly lower than the Ksh 110,000 paid by students
attending private universities in 1994. Direct cost recovery thus actually declined during the credit period
and in the absence of radically improved performance of the loan scheme (next paragraph), the same is true
of cost-recovery more broadly defined.
24.    Progress on loan scheme reform was also negligible during the credit period. Caps on loan
amounts (conditions for release of second and third tranches) were complied with. However, recovery rates
remained low (approximately 4%) and the nominal rate of interest remained 2% despite the LSP objective
s Based on numbers in the model used by the Appraisal Mission.
- - - - - - -   - - - ~ ~



7
of gradually increasing it. Reform of the loan scheme was not defined in terms of specific targets and clear
steps were not built in to the design. Greater attention could also have been paid at an earlier stage to the
fact that the existing institutions were too weak and lacked the incentives to achieve an instant turnaround
in recovery. Alternatives to the existing loan scheme were not explored; the huge public subsidies imnplicit
in the scheme were not addressed so that the scheme was not restricted to those without means. Steps in
reform of the scheme were to be determined following the completion of a review which was initially due in
draft form before negotiations9 but eventually only shared with IDA over a year later. Agreement on a
policy statement and an accompanying action plan'0 on higher education financing was finally achieved in
May 1993 (more than a year and a half into the credit). These were based on four principles: the careful
targeting of both loans and bursaries, on the basis of means testing; the progressive elimination of interest
subsidies on student loans, to make interest rates positive in real terms; a system of university charges that
clearly separates the cost of tuition from those of accommodation and food, and moves toward full cost
recovery for the latter; and the establishment of a small body, independent of the Ministry of Education,
with responsibility for the oversight of loan disbursement and recovery which will be contracted out to
commercial banks. Implementation of the action plan was behind schedule, however, particularly before
the closing date of the credit, although some significant announcements of policy change have very recently
been made (next two paragraphs).
25.    The rigidity of charges to students in the face of rising prices partly contributed to the
accumulation of arrears by public universities beginning in 1992/93. The need to address these in the
context of satisfactory financial plans for public universities (a condition of third tranche release) led to a
commitment to introduce new student financing measures in the academic year beginning in 1995; it was on
the basis of this commitment that the third tranche was released. In what has to be considered a very
significant step in university financing, the Government has recently announced new cost-sharing policies
(Appendix D) for the academic year beginning in 1995. According to these, "non-needy" students could
pay up to 42% of the direct costs of university education which includes the full cost of food and boarding
as well as direct tuition charges (a total charge of KSh. 50,000). Other students will be eligible for means-
tested loans of up to KSh. 42000. All students will be required to pay a minimum direct charge of KSh.
8000 towards tuition with bursaries provided to those who cannot pay this sum. The across the board
government grant is now KSh. 70000 or 58% of total costs. The new policies, although late, are broadly
consistent with the Government's Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988, its policy statement and action plan of
May 1993, its PFP (1994-96) and policies in the acceptable financing plans submitted to IDA in the
context of third tranche release. It should be noted that the amount of direct cost-sharing actually implied
will depend crucially on the determination of "those who have the means". Preparations for implementing
the new student financing package are only just beginning and are being monitored in the context of UIP.
Improvement in overall cost recovery will also depend on improved performance of the loan scheme as
many students will now receive larger loans.
26.    There has been some improvement in the collection rate of student loans in the last year (partly a
result of near completion of computerization of debtors' accounts by November 1994 again, substantially
behind schedule) although total amounts due have also been increasing. With the enactment of the Higher
Education Loans Board Act on July 21, 1995, the functions formerly carried out by the SLS unit in the
MOE are being transferred to the new Loans Board. The Act grants enhanced legal powers for loan
9 This review was expected to presented to IDA before negotiations and an action plan to improve effectiveness and the
recovery rate of student loans was to be finalized before Board presentation. However, at the time of negotiations the
slippage in the timetable was recognized and the action plan based on the review became the subject of a dated covenant
under UIP and its implementation became a condition for second tranche release under EdSAC.
10 Some actions included in the plan dated as far back as Sessional Paper 6 such as means-testing of student loans, charging
full cost for food and accommodation, and looking into commercial bank involvement in the management of the loan
scheme. The plan also included the annual review of interest rates with a view to increase them, and specific loan
recoverytargets. Some oftheseactionswerereflected in the PFP (1994-96)laterthatyear.



8
recovery and assigns the responsibility of determining the interest rate on student loans to the Board. The
Govermment has recently decided to charge a higher interest rate of 4% for disbursements in the academic
year beginning in 1995; this is a modest step in relation to its objective of eventually achieving positive real
interest rates on student loans. However, this will be reviewed further by the Loans Board which could
announce a higher interest rate. The Loans Board will handle means-tested bursaries as well as means-
tested loans. Although recent months have seen more action in the area of loan scheme reform, at this time
Kenya has yet to establish a viable loan scheme, in which loans are treated as loans and not grants. The
Government will need to take decisive and immediate acticn on default and should also explore ways of
attracting commercial banks to assume some of the commercial risk. Future progress in loan scheme reforn
will be monitored in the context of UIP
27.   Thus, while achievement of this objective in terms of financial results was limited during the credit
period, the new higher education financing policies publicly announced by the Government after the closing
date (but announcing essentially the same policies as in the acceptable university financing plans which
were a third tranche condition), if implemented successfully, could be the most significant contribution of
the program.
Other Objectives
28.    Overall achievement of Financial Objectives has been partial (paragraphs 10, 23-27).
Achievement of Institutional Development Objectives has been partial (paragraphs 14, 22).
Achievement of Poverty Reduction objectives has been partial. Textbooks were provided to schools in
disadvantaged areas and the Government has introduced bursaries at the secondary and higher levels of
education. The objective of improving enrollment rates and reducing drop-out, particularly in
disadvantaged areas, was not achieved. Achievement of Public Sector Management Objectives and
Public Policy Reform is assessed as partial.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
29.   Factors not generally subject to government control.
1. Due to an addition of IDA reflows the size of the credit almost doubled (Annex 2, Table 4). The closing
date of the credit was extended from June 30 1994 to March 10 1995 as a result of the addition of IDA
reflows to the third tranche, allowing additional time for sector policy reform.
2. The beginnig of the university academic year was delayed as a result of two major interruptions in
instruction since the beginning of the credit. As a result of student demonstrations in 1991, following the
introduction of the direct charge, "academic year 1991/92" started only in January 1992. Reflecting
discontent over falling real wages and deteriorating wvorking conditions, and the Government's refusal to
register the University Academic Staff Union, many university lecturers went on strike in Novernber 1993,
resulting in closure for some time of most of the public universities. "Academic year 1993/94", as
reflected in the EdSAC agreement got underway in most universities in June or July 1994 and at the
University of Nairobi in September 1994. These disruptions may also have contributed slightly to the
delays in implemneting higher education reforms.
30.    Factors subject to government control
1. The second .nDche was delayed by over a year initially due to delay in sectoral reform (in particular,
review of and action on the student loan scheme) and subsequently because an adequate macroeconomic
framework was not in place. The third tranche was also delayed primarily due to slow progress,
particularly in implementing higher education reform. The delay in the release of the second tranche for
macroeconomic reasons, although justified, appeared to have led to resentment on the part of the MOE as



9
all sector specific conditions had been satisfied 7 months earlier. This may have contributed slightly to the
slippage on higher education cost recovery actions agreed to in Spring 1993.
2. Government commitment and ownership was less than optimal, as witnessed in delayed action on
committed reform (especially higher education financing with a continuous falling back on action plans,
delays in addressing university arrears, poorly staffed and weak loan scheme unit in the MOE) and failure
to introduce new policy reforms (e.g. in teacher recruitment and training: the continued construction of
PTTCs and continued commitment to hire all PTTC graduates, addressing primary school non-enrollment
and drop-out). In part this was due to the politically challenging nature of some of the reforms and the lack
of direct support from the credit to the education sector. Support to higher education through UIP has
provided an additional vehicle to ensure reform; however direct support to the other sub-sectors was absent
3. The program could have been much stronger if there had been much more up-front sector work and
dialogue. The program was underdefined in some key areas (examples: primary school access, higher
education financing). Conditions for higher education financing reform were further weakened during
negotiations.
D. BANK PERFORMANCE
32.    EdSAC was the first attempt to key in on important sector policy issues and to address the issue of
efficiency and equity of public education expenditures and thus represented an important shift in the Bank's
approach to the sector. Bank performance in identification was highly satisfactory. On the other hand
particularly the area of higher education financing reform could have benefited from greater preparation
and dialogue. The program was underdesigned in some key areas such as access and quality indicators.
Greater specificity in loan scheme reform and/or stronger targets for direct cost recovery would have helped
improve outcomes. More attention could also have been paid to the sustainability of reforms in teacher
employment. While a slightly underdefined multiple tranche adjustment operation may be a good risk in a
country with strong institutions and strong commitment, in the Kenyan context of weak commitment and
weak institutions, it was a highly risky gamble. On balance, Bank performance in preparation and
appraisal is assessed as deficient.
33.    Monitoring implementation of the policy measures proposed in the adjustment program was
satisfactory. As a result of substantial dialogue on higher education that started from the Spring of 1993,
the Government committed to many important revised policy measures in an action plan and in its PFP,
some of which it has recently acted upon. Monitoring of university deficits and the provision of input into
the preparation of satisfactory university financing plans (in the context of UIP and EdSAC) were aspects
of supervision that remained highly satisfactory after the release of the second tranche. Actual time spent
on supervision was double that set out in the President's report and supervision missions were regular".
On the other hand, the ability of Bank supervision to enforce timely Government action on committed
reform was limited by weak tranche release conditions and the large sums of money involved (doubled due
to IDA reflow) wvith their importance for the macroeconomy. Thus, in the case of second tranche release,
while the credit was used to ensure government implementation of macroeconomic reform, on the sectoral
side (in particular in the case of the loan scheme), the Bank settled for promises of action in lieu of
substantial action on the ground. In the context of the third tranche release it was difficult, for example, to
insist that specific actions that had been agreed upon, such as satisfaction of recovery targets, decisive
public action on loan recovery, early announcement of revised higher education charges etc., be taken prior
In the circumstances of the education sector second tranche conditions having been fulfilled, but not yet the macroeconomic
conditions, it was decided not to carry out the planned September 1993 supervision mission. However the Bank still
remained in close touch with the education sector conditions through the Public Expenditure Review, attendance at a
week long Education Workshop in Mombasa, and periodic reporting from the Education Consultant at the Resident
Mission. During this period the Bank staff's contact with the Borrower's progress was substantial, but probably less than
optimal



10
to the releasc of the tranche; once again the tranche was released on the basis of commitments rather than
substantial action."2 On balance, Bank performance in supervision is assessed as satisfactory.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.    Borrower commitment to the adjustment program was less than optimal. Its performance in
preparation is assessed as deficient (paragraphs 30.2, 30.3, 32). Actions to address fiscal restraint in
education were satisfactory. In the area of primary education, actions to address access were deficient.
While the reduction of UT's exceeded expectations, and although there were deficiencies in textbook
financing and provision, its reintroduction is an important step. In the area of higher education financing,
actions to address the deteriorating financial condition of the universities and loan scheme reform were
deficient during the credit period. However, the introduction of a direct charge and the recent policy
announcements by the Government in the area of higher education financing are major steps. Compliance
with covenants in monitoring, review and reporting, accounts and auditing, utilization of funds was highly
satisfactory. Sector specific tranche release conditions were substantially met although with significant
delays. From the point of view of the MoE, EdSAC was a "belt-tightening" exercise, lacking in direct
support to the sector. On balance, therefore, and bearing in mind the program's challenges, borrower
performance in implementation is assessed as satisfactory.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME. SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE REFORM
35.    Arriving at an overall assessment for this operation is difficult, because of the numerous
objectives, the generality with which some of them wvere stated, and the question of weights one would
assign to "process" as distinguished from "product". For the purpose of reaching an overall assessment,
the following are taken as the most important objectives: (a) contributing to fiscal adjustment by containing
the growth of the MoE recurrent budget; (b) increasing "access" (enrollment) and quality at the primary
level; (c) more equitable and sustainable financing arrangements for public university education, and
improved coordination of public universities.
36.    As set out in paragraph 10 above, the objective with respect to the MoE recurrent budget was
substantially achieved. In the area of primary education the decline in participation rates must be
considered a serious setback. The provision of textbooks to disadvantaged areas the decline in the
percentage of untrained teachers presumably has had some quality benefits, but this has not been verified.
37.    The financing arrangements "on the ground" for higher education improved at the time of Board
presentation with the introduction of the direct charge, but then deteriorated during the period of credit
effectiveness (in part due to exogenous factors). In terms of university financial results and Student Loan
Scheme Collection, financial results "on the ground" during the EdSAC period were disappointing. The
student financing policy reforms included in the 3-year university plans submitted to the Bank for the third
tranche, and announced to the Kenyan public in July 1995, represent, however, a potential for major
improvement, depending on how they are implemented. Kenya is probably the only African country where,
as a matter of policy, the Govenunent's share of the cost of public university education is as low as 58%.
The Commission for Higher Education has begun to function as an effective intermediary with respect to
the public universities.
38.    Giving equal weight to the three areas mentioned in paragraph 35, attributing substantial
importance in the overall assessment to the policy announcements on university cost recovery (as
12 In view of the definition of the Schedule 3(B) tranche release conditions, the Bank could have insisted on such action prior
to tranche release only by relying on dissatisfaction with implementation of the overall adjustment program described in
the LSP (DCA, Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (b) (i) rather than the specific Schedule 3(B) conditions). The question of
whether to do so was explicitly discussed within the Eastern Africa Department and it was decided not to do so.



11
distinguished from financial results "on the ground"), considering the politically challenging nature of
university cost recovery and teacher employment reforms, and recognizing that EdSAC is the beginning of
a broader and longer reform program, the overall assessment is, on balance, satisfactory. On the other
hand, if a higher weight is given to access and quality outcomes in primary education (in view of the
importance of primary education for development), or more importance attributed to "'results on the
ground" the overall assessment would be, on balance, unsatisfactory.
39.    Sustainability of the program is uncertain. Although it looks slightly better now than it did six
months ago, sustainability of budgetary achievements will require deeper reform in the area of teacher
employment and education, the development of a sound loan scheme, and successful implementation of
higher education financing measures. Implementation of the new higher education financing measures will
continue to be monitored through UIP. An OED evaluation should be conducted in two years.
40.    Future reform should continue the process of expenditure control, while emphasizing access
(particularly by the poor) to primary and secondary education, teacher supply, the introduction of a
commercially based loan scheme for higher education and more sustainable financing mechanisms at all
levels of education, improving the quality of education, for example, by moving decision-making on school
inputs (including staffing) closer to beneficiaries. Some of these reforms are included in the Government's
recent policy paper "Macroeconomic and Structural Policy Framework Paper for 1995-97 " and are being
discussed in the context of a new lending operation.
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
*  Much more up-front sector work, preparation and dialogue is needed to ensure a well defined sector
reform program. Specific tranche release conditions should be strong and adequate targets specified.
This is particularly important in the Kenyan context of weak commitment and institutions. A series of
smaller, well-specified single tranche operations may be preferable to an underdefined multiple tranche
operation. Once realistic commitments have been agreed upon, they should be enforced
*  Particularly when a turnaround in the performance of existing institutions is desired (e.g. the loan
scheme), attention to institutional deficiencies should be rigorous and alternatives should be explored.
To be sustainable, reforms should pay greater attention to underlying incentives (e.g. teacher
employment).
*  To improve the quality of education, future reforms should examine alternatives to centralized
determination and provision of school inputs. Cost-effective approaches more responsive to local
school and community needs should be examined. Appropriate indicators, that focus on output rather
than inputs, should be set up and interventions should be carefully evaluated.
*  Studies that are not formal requirements for tranche releases tend to be of varying quality and actions
emerging from them late or absent. They receive low priority when supervision resources are absorbed
into resolving numerous difficulties in meeting tranche release conditions. If they are important, they
should be done up-front.
*  Future support for the Government's reforms (improved access, quality, establishment of sustainable
financing mechanisms, for e.g.) should include more direct support to the education sector.



12
Part 11, Annex I
Table 1
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial       Partial         Negligible     Not applicable
Achievement of objectives                       i________
macro-economic policies               X
sectoral policies                                      X
financial objectives                                   X
institutional development                              X
physical objectives                                                        _             X
poverty reduction                                      X
gender issues                                                                            x
other social objectives                                                                  x
environmental objectives                        _       __   __           _              X
public sector management                               X         _____________ _
private sector development                                                               X
Ukely          Unlikely         Uncertain
B  Project sustainability                                                   X
Highly
ma satisfotory  Satisfactory      Deficient
C  Bank performance 
identification                        X                                 ________
preparation assis e                                                     X
appraisal                                                               X
supervision                                            X
D. Borrower performance
preparation                                                             X
implementation                                         X
covenant compliance                                    X
operation
Highly                                             Highlyry Uasofetr
...saitiolcStory  Sisfactry    Unaefctatoy      un tlt
Assessment of outcome                                   X*
See paragraphs 35-38 on pages 10, 11



13
Part 11, Annex I
Table 2
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustument Credit
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan/credit title                        Purpose                     Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Sixth Education    The project sought to improve equity and quality of  1986  Closed 3
Project                the education system and to promote institutional        years late,
development through strengthening the                    June 30,
(Cr 1673-KE)           Government's capability to effectively plan for the      1995
US $ 37.5 million      education sector and to manage its expansion at all
levels.
To achieve these objectives, the project was to (a)
construct seven new primary teacher training
colleges (PTTS's); (b) construct three new arid
zone primary schools in remote locations; (c)
provide the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE)
with equipment, specialist services and training to
support the development of educational materials
delivered by the Education Media Services (EMS);
(d) assist KIE in preparing and testing new
curricular materials for secondary and technical
education; (e) strengthen the capacity of the
Planning Unit (PU) of MOE and the Teachers
Service Commission.
Table 2: Page I of 2



14
Part II, Annex I
Table 2
Table 2: Related Bank Credits (continued)
Loan/credit title                      Purpose                        Year of    Status
approval
Following operations
1. Universities      The project is intended to support the government's  1991    To close,
Investnent Project   program to consolidate and develop the universities by        December
(Cr2309           (a) rationalizing and strengthening the institutional        31, 1996
(Cr 2309             framework for higher education, in both the public and
US$55.0 million      private sectors; (b) limiting the growth of government
budgetary resources devoted to the public universities
by promoting cost sharing and improved investment
planning; and (c) improving the quality of teaching and
research delivered at the public universities.
The project directly complements the EDSAC, building
on the higher education adjustment policies supported
by EDSAC.
Central Components: strengthening CHE, reforming the
SLS, carrying out relevant studies, supporting applied
research, and implementing the project. University
Components (at the six public university institutions):
strengthening institutional development (especially
administration and finance), staff development in key
areas, and the supply of teaching related equipment.
Table 2: Page 2 of 2



15
Part 11, Annex I
Table 3
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 3 Project Timetable
'-I~~~lv
Steps in Project ,Cycl&   :          Date Planned           Date Actual
Identification                                                      October 30, 1989
Preparation                                                         October 1989 to
March 1991 (mission
July/August 1990)
Pre-Appraisal Mission                                              November 1990
Appraisal Mission Departure                   Feburary/March        March 11, 1991
1991
Negotiations                                  July 11, 1991         July 11-12, 1991
Letter of Education Sector Policy                                  July 29, 1991
Board Presentation                            September 17, 1991    September 5, 1991
Signing                                                            September 13, 1991
Effectiveness (First Tranche Release)         November 1991        September 27, 1991
Second Tranche Release (including IDA reflow)    September 1992    December 7, 1993
Third Tranche Release (including IDA reflow)  September 1993       December 13, 1994
Project Completion
Closing                                       June 30, 1994         March 10, 1995
Extended from June 30, 1994 by Second Amending Agreement signed March 10, 1994, adding
Kenya's FY94 IDA reflow to the third tranche.
Source: Project Files, Presidents Report.



16
Part II, Annex I
Table 4
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US $ million)
* .    | TY '2         Yv C1 : IX 4
President's Report Estimate          34.12          32.94      32.94
Actual                               35.42           0.0       86.41      81.60
Original                           35.42           0.0       34.45      36.94
Additional Financing*                              0.0       51.96      44.66
Cumulative disbursements
as % of total (excluding IDA reflows)  34.1         34.1       67.1        100.0
Date of Final Disbursement                         March 4, 1995
Source: LOAAF, President's Report.
Additional financing of SDR 37.62 million (in IDA reflows) was added to the second tranche
amount (First amending agreement, March 1 1993) and SDR 30.33 million to the third tranche
amouni (second amending agreement, March 10, 1994).



17
Part II, Annex I
Table 5
Kenya
Education Sector Adjutment Credit
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Kr~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Kiy lmlpl..mcnIull           I       .: * | * ;*-9- *-v-*                       5- ;;*:s c . ;. >
14.lmul                                     *        .I ***-... i;f   
1. Investment Plan and Budgets
(i) Rate of growth fdutins       To be restricted to about 3% p.a.  1991/92-1994/95: 5.2% p.a.
real recurrent budget            over credit period                (estimate)
(Computed from Part II,Annex 2,
Table I)
(ii) Education's share of GOK's  To be maintained at current level  share maintained between 34-35%
voted recurrent budget                                             except 1992/93 (36%).
(Part II, Annex 2, Table 1)
(iii) Universities'share of the  To remain under 20%               1991/92: 16.1%; 1992/93: 17.4%
recurrent education budget                                        (accounting for deficits: 21.4%);
(including student loan scheme).                                   1993/94: 15.90/o (including
outstanding arrears: 19.4%);
1994/95: 16.3% (including
outstanding arrears: 18.9%)
(Part 11, Annex 2, Table 2)
(iv) Education Recurrent and     To be "satisfactory to IDA"       Satisfactory (Appendix C)
Development Budget
Estimates/Outcomes for 1991/92,
1992/93 and 1993/94 including
certain specific allocations. Updated
Education Sector Investment PlanZ3
2. Primary Education
i. Numbry ofcte   on             Ceiling of 175000, no more than   PayrQL numbers: 1991: 173090;
(i) Number of teachers on Primary    45,000, 36,000, and 33500 UT's in   1992:176360; 1993: 175048; 1994:
Payroll'23                        1991, 1992, 1993 respectively.   178097; UT's: 1991: 43861; 1992:
40,954; 1993: 32531; 1994: 22506.
(Numbers as of March 31 of each
year as in Part II, Annex 2, Table 2,
except 1993 are TSC numbers in
April).
(ii) PTTC admissions" Z3         Less than 8000 of which at least  Sept 1991: 10,874; <2000 UT's
3000 experienced UT's in Sept    Sept 1992: 8000; 7413 UT's
1991, 1992, 1993                 Sept 1993: 8000; 7000 UT's
Sept 1994: 8000; 2632 UT's
Sept 1995: 6000; 5 UT's
(iii) Pupil-Teacher Ratios       To increase from 31:1 in 1991 to  Remained constant at approximately
34:1 in 1993                     31:1
Tablc 5: page I of 3



18
Part 11, Annex I
Table 5
Kenya
Education Sector Adjutment Credit
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
(iv) Share of Primary Education  No less than 3% by end of credit  1991/92: 0.3%; 1992/93: 1.7%
Recurrent Budget for school      period                            1993/94: 0.9%; 1994/95: 1%
equipment (including books) and
other learning supplies
(v) Evaluation of Primary Textbook   Due Sept 1993. To evaluate scheme  Received November 1994.
financing scheme3                and recommend cost effective      Deficiencies in methodology. Cost-
interventions for future.        effectiveness not evaluated. Desired
textbook/student ratios not achieved.
Improved performance reported
where textbooks received and some
relief to poor parents.
3. Secondary Education
i a3           1991: 32,000; 1992: 33,000; 1993:    1991: 35,097; 1992: 36,340; 1993:
(i) Secondary Payroll            34,000; no more than 4600 non-    32815; 1994: 38307* (Numbers as
teaching staff in 1991,1992, 1993.    of March 31 as reported in Part II,
Annex 2, Table 5 except for 1993
number is for May); Sept 1991:
31,849; August 1992: 31,620; May
1993: 32,815; Nov. 1994: 34105.
Non-teaching staff: 4486 in 1993
and 1994 (From semi-annual
Progress Reports).
(ii) Pupil: Teacher ratio        to increase from 21: I to about 22:1   Decreased to about 16:1 in 1994.
in 1993
4. Universitv Education
Public      not to exceed 10,000 in 1991/92;  1991/92: 9404; 1992/93: 10,189;
(i) First Yaar intake into Publc  10,300 in 1992/93, 10,600 in     1993/94: 8459; 1994/95: below
Universities                     1993/94.                          8400 expected.
(ii) CHE restructuring and       CHE restructuring to have begunz  CHE took over in July 1994 (1.5
functioning; preparation of      CHE to perform effectively and    years late); performed effectively in
university financing and investment   university financial and investment   coordinating 3 year financing plans
plans                            plans prepared3                   by November 1994; Satisfactory 3
year financing plans received in
November 1994. (See Appendix C)
Table 5: page 2 of 3



19
Part II, Annex 1
Table 5
Kenya
Education Sector Adjutment Credit
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued)
KgY lmplementsu.                                                       
induicioni I1 Pteuident'a                Estimated             .              Actual
(iii) Minimum direct charge at public   Ksh. 6000 in 1991/92; 1992/93;  Ksh 6000 charged. A little over 20%
universities                       1993/94 academic years. Upto      of students received financial assistance
maximum of 20% of students to     of upto 6000 Ksh upto maximum
receive some financial support to meet scholarship for all students=20% of
this charge.                      (total no. students times 6000). Real
value of direct charge dropped
significantly and the charge represented
5% of unit costs in 1994.
Recent announcement for higher direct
charges beginning in 1995/96 academic
year (third academic year after
1991/92) could mean substantial
increase in direct charge to "non-
needy". (See Appendix D)
No more than Ksh. 21,500 for each  Satisfied (see Appendix C)
student (all students eligible) in
(iv) student loan allocation       1991/92, 1992/93, 1993/94 academic
years' 23, Personal Allowance
components: no more than Ksh 5,000
in 1991/92, Ksh 2,500 in 1992/9312,
Ksh 3,500 for books in 1992/932.
Review of mechanisms and          Action plan and principles for
implementation of action plan based    university education financing agreed
2
(v) improved student loan scheme  on review , evaluation of new      upon in May 1993; Loan recovery
measures to improve rate of student    rates have remained low and most
recovery and proposals for        actions on plan lacking until July 1995.
improvement of recovery submitted3.   Evaluation and proposals received
November 1994. Some improvement
in collection rates and actions in recent
months, e.g.: enactment of Higher
Education Loans Board Act (July 1995)
announcement of means testing of new
loans.
Source: Semi-Annual Progress Reports (MOE); Part II, Annex 2 Tables; Tranche Release Memoranda.
Note: Academic Years correspond with those in EDSAC DCA: i.e. 1992/93, 1993/94 and 1994/95 refer to first,
second and third academic years after 1991192. In actual event, due to the delays in the start of the academic year, the
third academic year after 1991/92 will start in many universities in Fall 1995.
* Provisional.
Condition for Board Presentation; 2 Condition for Second Tranche Release; 3Condition for Third Tranche
Release.
Table S: page 3 of 3



20
Part 11, Annex 1
Table 6
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study             :                                        and. .pa. .
1. Plan of action to implement  To address serious shortcomings   This is, strictly speaking, not a study.
revisions in primary and       in the current 8:4:4 curriculum  Primary and secondary school syllabi were
secondary curriculum, (based on   with the objective of streamlining  revised in 1992. Progress on an action plan
recently completed review) with   it so that it can be effectively  for revising and preparing teaching and
targets on in-service teacher  implemented.                   learning materials and in-servicing of
training and revision of                                     teachers has been slow: The process of
classroom materials to be                                     revision of teaching and learning materials is
prepared', implementedb and                                   on-going although behind schedule, and the
progress review on                                           in-servicing of trained teachers is yet to be
implementation to be submitted'.                              implemented.
2. Implementation of plan of   To address the problems of     This is not, strictly speaking, a study. MOE
action for enhancing the capacity  ineffective functional linkages  with assistance from ODA has procured 9
of the MOE in the areas of     between various MOE sections    computers at the MOE, Nairobi, to facilitate
educational management,       resulting from educational      management of data from primary and
planning, policy analysis and  growth an expansion which      secondary schools. Data entry is still on-
data collection (recently      outpaced existing management    going. A computerization study to make
prepared) to be started including   and planning capacities, with the   recommendations on installing an MIS was
inservice training of appropriate   objective of strengthening  carried out by Computer Consultants
personnel,b and first annual  institutional capacity and      Limited, under the sixth education project;
report prepared reviewing      linkages for efficient educational  the study was too late for its
implementation progressc to be    management/supervision,    recommendations to be feasibly financed
prepared.                      planning and data/information  under that project. Some staff have been
management.                   trained in data entry and analysis on
computers. Longer term training of several
officers, including in the area of Educational
Planning and Management, was funded
mainly by the sixth education project.
3. A study on the extent and   To address the problem of poor    Phase I report completed in March 1994 (At
causes of non-enrollment and   access to primary school in some   least 1.5 years behind schedule); Phase II: to
drop-out, together with an action   areas, falling participation in  identify and document operational initiatives
plan (with targets) for tackling  others, and high rates of drop out  and innovations of increasing access and
problems to be completedb and  with the objective of increasing    reducing wastage still not completed. Plan
progress report on             participation rates oin primary  of action yet to be prepared. The
implementation of action plan to   school and reducing drop-out.  Government plans to review the findings of
be prepared'.                                                the study, when completed, in conjunction
with the findings of a recently completed
study by UNICEF as well as of studies being
undertaken for the preparation of a new IDA
credit to identify future actions.
'Expected to be completed before Board Presentation (Sept 1991);b Expected to be completed at the time of second
tranche release;' Expected to be completed at the time of third tranche release.



21
Part It, Annex I
TJble 7
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA                     Description of Covenant                     Covenant   Present   Original   Actual                                       Comments
Reference                                                              class(es)      status       date        date
Article 3,     The Borrower and Association to, from time to time, at the  Monitoring,    Complied   N/A         N/A
section 3.01    request of either party, exchange views on the progress  revie% and     with
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified   reporting/Co
in Schedule 3 to this agreement. Prior to each such exchange of  nsultation
views, Borrower to furnish to the Association report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
Article 3,     Borrower to, with effcct from March 1, 1992, until     Monitoring,    Substantia     N/A         N/A      August 93, Feb 94, Aug 94 and Jan 95 progress reports received.
section 3.02    completion of the project, submit semi-annual progress reports  review and  Ily
not later thn March I and September I of each year. Progress   reporting  complied
reports to cover, inter alia: (a) recurrent and development              with
budget adfocations and actua expenditures for the education
sector, (b) number of teachers on the primary and secondary
payroll, including number of untrained teachers (primary and
secondary) and non-teaching staffon the secondary payroll,
teacher deployment patterns and student-teacher ratios; (c)
public university admissions by major subject area, by gender
and, wherever possible, by socioeconomic background; (d)
progress with CHE assuming effective responsibility for the
public universities; (e) reformed cost-sharing arrangements
including experience with the scholarship fund and with the
student loan recovery; and (f) progress with the three studies
detailed in the policy matrix, being undertaken by the
borrower, including progress on the implementation of the
action plans recommended by these studies.
Article 3,     Procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of   Flow and  complied   N/A         N/A
section 3.03    the credit to be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to  utilization of  with
DCA                                                    project funds
Table 7: page I of 2



22
Part 11, Annex I
Table 7
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
DCA                      Description of Covenant                      Covenant   Present   Original   Actual                                          Comments
Reference                                                                 class(es)      status        date        date
Article 3,     Borrower shall have those records and accounts including those   Accounts and   Complied                      Compliance fullfilled.
section 3.04    for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, fumish as    audit   with
(b)            soon as available, but not later than 6 months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the audit report and fumish
other information conceming records and accounts as
reasonably requested.
Article 3,     For all expenditures with respect to which with drawals from  Accounts and   Complied
section 3.04    Credit Account were made on the basis of SOEs, Borrower)  audit            with
(')            maintain or cause to be maintained records and awcounts
reflecting such expenditures; retain them for at least one year
after the audit report for the fiscal year was received by IDA,
enable examination of such records by IDA representatives;
and ensure the annual audits includes such records and
accounts along with an opinion by the auditors as to whether
the SOEs together with the procedure and intemal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals
Tranche Release Conditions: See Appendix C
Table 7: page 2 of 2



23
Part 11, Annex I
Table 8
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
t      f." .                                   .........                               ...........ag   ,
Appraisal-Board                n.a.          n.a.                                     10.8
(Negotiations, Board
Presentation)
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                    45*           n.a.                                     88.2
Completion                     n.a.          n.a.                 .    ..
TOTAL                                        =====_ ... -.=... ....
*President's Report
* * stimated



24                                                         Part 11, Annex I
Table 9
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
E                    ...: .. ... . d   e        - ...-  0                                             1                          00 
Through
appraisal
Identification   Oct-89   4       18        not available         N/A            N/A                             not available
Higher Education Apex Institution Issues; MOE to work on (a)
Preparation*   Jul-90    7        10       not available         N/A             N/A        clear PIP for Education (b) Timings and specific targets of
l_____                                      ____________                    identified policy matrix
MOE to (a) further refine policy matrix(b) spell out precise
steps for restraining growth of primary and secondary teaching
Pre-Appraisal  Nov-90     4        6       not available          N/A            N/A        forcelc)work more on drafting policies for higher education
l _____________        ________                              _______________  _____________                  sector  before    appraisal
MOE to provide before negotiations: (a) decisions on PPTG
functioning (b)costsharing features as monitorable
Appraisal    Mar-91     6       18        not available         N/A            N/A      indicators(c)proposal of cost-sharing impact on disadvantaged
and decisions on loans/scholarships(d) draft loan recovery
review
Appraisal to    N/A    N/A                                                                                          n.a.
Board      __ _ _  __  _ ___                                _ _ _ _ _ _
Board to     N/A      N/A
Effectiveness
Supervision
Primary Payroll Breach; MOE to (a)prioritize ongoing university
projects, revise SiP(b)Bring primary payroll under
Mar-92     2        11     Task Manager*',          2               1       1 75000(c)contain secondment of secondary school
Educator                                    teachers(d)share loan recovery review(e)provide assurance on
key PPTG appointments
MOE to provide (a)Written assurance that additional funding
Sep-92     2        8      Task Manager" *,        N/A            N/A      for primary textbooks will be made for FY93 (b) Finalization
Educator                                    and agreement with IDA on plan of action for strengthening
loan scheme and improving recovery
Table 9: page 1 of 2



25                                                        Pat II, Anex I
Table 9
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
=tk                   of.. p_=a    In F.     .        .        kW     W ...  ........ ............
Supervision (continued)
Task Manager",                                 For Tranche 2 Govt to prepare satisfactory policy statement
Task Manager-,                                 and action plan for SLS. For Tranche 3 (a) SLS; monitoring for
Mar-93     3       1 5    Educatorn Higher       N/A            N/A      tranche release restricted to recovery efforts (b) Progress on
Consultant                                  CHE taking over from PPTG is slow
Task Manager *,                                no remaining issues for second tranche; macroeconomic issues
May-93    3        0.5    Educator, Resident      NIA            N/A     outstanding
Mission Chief
Universities:financial deterioration,delayed financial plans,CHE
Task Manager**,                                strengthening; proposed CHE large;SLS:no interest
Mar-94     2      4.5    Educator, Division       N/A           N/A      rise,shortfall in recovery;Require satisfactory plans,CHE and
Chief                                    harmonization legislation;new SLS action plan.
Outstanding sector conditions for third tranche: (a) Effective
Task Manager*',                                performance by CHE (b) acceptable university financial plans
Jun-94     3       6*      Educator, Intern      N/A             N/A     (c) satisfactory SLS loan recovery (d) satisfactory investment
(Economist)                                 plan (e) primary school textbook evaluatin
Task Manager" ,                                Outstanding sector conditions for third tranche: (a) revised
Educator, Intern                              university financial plans (b) brief SLS evaluation report (c)
(Economist) e                                 evaluation report on primary school textbooks
Oct-94        3      12    (Eonmit
Disbursement
Discussion for
prepation of
ICR and     Feb-95     1      0.5-    Task Manager"          N/A            N/A
Borrower
evaluation
Discussion of
draft ICR and  Aug-95    1       2-      Task Manager"          N/A            N/A
Borrower
evaluation
* Estimated as mission was combined with others
*  Task Manager has always been an Economist
Table 9: page 2 of 2



26
Part II, Annex 2
Table I
Kenya
Education Sector Adjutment Credit
Table 1: Ministry of Education Recurrent Budget
''*1*Iio 199i 1SB i    l s.Q1992i19$i'*41%.:      ,i             . i
IN CURRENT PRICES (millions of Kenya pounds)
Iotl Net Recurrent
Expenditures               479       571     608.3    719.4    897.3   1225.4      1361.1
Primary Education           274     316.3    363.3    413.5    529.8    675.3      745.3
Secondary Education        78.6     87.8      98.3    122.1    159.7    254.9      280.4
University Education       84.4    123.5    97.9       125     142.3    200.2      226.3
Other (inci Teachers Ed)    42      43.4     48.8     58.8     65.5      94.9      109.1
otal central govt recurrent
xpenditures (exci CFS)    1458     1647     1738     1997    2618.2   3600.2       3895
Ratio of MOE recurrent
xpenditure to total central govt
xpenditure                32.85    34.67    35.00    36.02    34.27    34.04      34.94
IN CONSTANT PRICES (millions of 1982 Kenya pounds)
Iotal Net Recurrent
Expenditures              251.64   272.10   256.18   254.79   267.25   327.08
Primary Education          143.95   150.73   153.00   146.45   157.80   180.25
Secondary Education        41.29    41.84    41.40    43.24    47.57    68.04
University Education       44.34    58.85    41.23    44.27    42.38    53.44
Other (incl Teachers Ed)   22.06    20.68    20.55    20.83    19.51    25.33
Total central govt recurrent
expenditures (excluding CFS)   765.96   784.85   731.94   707.28   779.81   960.95
GDP Deflator (1982=100)    190.35   209.85   237.45   282.35   335.75   374.65**
Source: Printed Appropriation Accounts (For 1989/90-1992/93); Expenditure retums as at June 30, 1994
and 1995 (For 1993/94 and 1994/95); Printed Estimates (For 1995/96).
*Provisional.
*"Estimates
Ngte: Beginning in 1994/95, grants to TSC for primary and secondary schools been included under subvote 310
(General Administration and Planning), Head 841 for the TSC. This table includes grants to TSC for primary
and secondary schools under the subvotes "primary" and "secondary" as used to be done previously.



27
Part II, Annex 2
Kenya                                    Table 2
Education Sector Adjutment Credit
Table 2: Subsectoral Allocation of the Ministry of Education's Recurrent Budget (Percentage Shares)
1989190  1990/01  1991192   1992/93  1993/94*  19941
Total Net Recurrent Expenditures   100  100       100      100       100       100      100
Primary                       57.20    55.39    59.72     57.48     59.04    55.11      54.76
Secondary                     16.41    15.38    16.16      16.97    17.80    20.80      20.60
University                    17.62    21.63    16.09      17.38    15.86    16.34      16.63
Other (including teacher educ)  8.77    7.60     8.02      8.17      7.30     7.74      8.02
Source: Constructed from Table 1, Part II, Annex 2.
* Provisional, ** Estimates, *** Based on estimated arrears of 36.5 million Kenya pounds.



28
Part II, Annex 2
Table 3
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 3: Composition of Recurrent Expenditure on Primary Education
~~~~~1992V    |i,YwrS   I  Si,  U994 mi ,. .tP .1
IN CURRENT PRICES (millions of Kenya pounds)
otal Net Recurrent
Expenditure on Primary
Education                      274    316.2    363.3    413.5        529.8    675.3    745.3
eachers Remuneration         243.8    289.3    345.6    390.7       511.8    657.1    725.7
Other-Boarding School Grants    3.1      3.2      2.7       3.3        3.1      1.8       1.8
chool Equipment Scheme         1.1      1.1        1       7.1         5       6.5      6.8
Of Which Textbooks                                 1        7        4.2       5.8
chool Milk and Feeding
Program                        25.9     22.7     13.9      12.5       10.1      9.9       11
IN CONSTANT PRICES (millions of 1982 Kenya pounds)
otal Net Recurrent
Expenditure on Primary
Education                    143.95   150.68   153.00   146.45      157.80   180.25
eachers Remuneration        128.08   137.86   145.55   138.37      152.43   175.39
Other-Boarding School Grants   1.63     1.52      1.14     1.17       0.92     0.48
School Equipment Scheme        0.58     0.52     0.42      2.51       1.49     1.73
Of Which Textbooks           0.00      0.00     0.42     2.48        1.25     1.55
School Milk and Feeding                                                        2.64
Program                       13.61    10.82     5.85      4.43       3.01
DGP Deflator (1982=100)      190.35   209.85   237.45   282.35      335.75  374.65**
PERCENT DISTRIBUTION
otal Net Recurrent
Expenditure on Prmary
Education                      100       100      100      100        100       100      100
eachers Remuneration         88.98    91.49    95.13    94.49       96.60    97.30    97.37
Other-Boarding School Grants   1.13     1.01     0.74      0.80       0.59     0.27      0.24
School Equipment Scheme        0.40     0.35     0.28      1.72       0.94     0.96     0.91
Of Which Textbooks           0.00      0.00     0.28     1.69       0.79      0.86
School Milk and Feeding
Program                        9.45     7.18     3.83      3.02       1.91     1.47      1.48
Source: Printed Appropriation Accounts (For 1989/90-1992/93); Expenditure returns as at June 30, 1994
and 1995 (For 1993/94 and 1994/95); Printed Estimates (For 1995/96)
*Provisional.
"Estimates



29
Part II, Annex 2
Table 4
Kenya
Education Sector Adustment Credit
Table 4: Primary Education: Enrollment and Teachers, 1986-1994
*~~ Rat i  L.  ..__                     Rat % 7   Not- i .^f (%)!|
1986   4843.40                142807              97537 (68.3) 45270 (31.7)   33.92
1987   5031.40      3.88      149151      4.44    104406 (70)  44745 (30)    33.73
1988   5123.60      1.83      155694      4.39    108363 (69.6) 47331 (30.4)   32.91
1989   5244.00      2.35      166175      6.73    116323 (70)  49852 (30)    31.56
1990   5392.30      2.83      172550      3.84    116972 (67.8) 55578 (32.2)   31.25
1991   5456.10      1.18      173090      0.31    129229 (74.7) 43861 (25.3)   31.52
1992   5530.20      1.36      176360      1.89    135406 (76.8) 40954 (23.2)   31.36
1993**  5428.60     -1.84     173177     -1.80    142047 (82)  31130 (18)    31.35
1994*  5556.80      2.36      178097     2.84    155591 (87.4) 22506 (12.6)   31.20
1995  _                       180989      1.62    158755 (87.7) 22234 (12.3)
Source: Ministry of Education
- Provisional
-- Low (96%) Response Rate from School Census
Teacher Numbers are as of March 31 of each year; For 1995, as of February 1995.



30
Part II, Annex 2
Table 5
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 5: Secondary Education: Enrollment and Teachers, 1986-1994
7j    X i~Ri t%    Ntimb                         WN%   .- - .t-,i,'ineE T.
1986    458712                22296              13263 (59.5)    9033 (40.5)      20.57
1987    522261        13.85  24237          8.71 14935 (61.6)    9302 (38.4)      21.55
1988    540192         3.43  25891          6.82 16591 (64.1)    9300 (35.9)      20.86
1989    609150        12.77  28056          8.36 17139 (61.1)    10917 (38.9)     21.71
1990    618461          1.53  30481         8.64 19431 (63.7)    11050 (36.3)     20.29
1991    614161         -0.70  35097        15.14 24471 (69.7)    10626 (30.3)     17.50
1992    629062         2.43  36340          3.54 27219 (74.9)    9121 (25.1)      17.31
1993**  531342        -15.53  32540       -10.46 23776 (73.1)    8764 (26.9)      16.33
1994*   619839         16.66  38307         17.72 31593 (82.5)    6714 (17.5)     16.18
Source: Ministry of Education
* Provisional
* Low (87%) Response Rate from School Census



31
Part 11, Annex 2
Table 6
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 6: Gross Enrollment Rates in Primary Schools, 1989 - 1994
Y Ir                                                Fop,iEnllment n'00(.)  'apuhhtw sged 6-14 Yean  -.  GrCa.  wllMr I vta
Boys          Girl%        Tol   ,                                     Tou                    J   Gir.          Totault
_______.... .-.....  .    ... .                                 .      ......                    .........
1989        2,766.0       2,628.1       5,394.1       2,852.4         2,825.9       5,678.3       97.0%         93.0%        95.0%
1990        2,766.4       2,625.9       5,392.3       2,951.7         2,925.4       5,877.1       93.7%         89.8%        91.8%
1991        2,797.1       2,659.0       5,456.1       3.054.3         3,028.4       6,082.8       91.6%         87.8%        89.7%
1992        2,806.8       2,723.4       5,530.2       3,160.6         3,135.0       6,295.6       88.8%         86.90/%      87.8%
1993        2,761.1       2,667.5       5,428.6       3,270.6         3,245.4       6,516.0       84.4%         82.2%        83.3%
1994*       2,814.8        1,742.2      5,557.0        3,384.4        3,359.7        6,744.0       83.2%         81.6%        82.4%
Source: CBS; Economic Survey, Various Issues.
Population Estimates are based on the 1989 census where the growth rate of boys is 3.42% and 3.46% for girls.
t Provisional



32
Part II, Annex 2
Table 7
Kenya
Education Sector Adjustment Credit
Table 7: Gross Enrollment Rates in Secondary Schools, 1989 - 1994
.............. ...,__. ---.-.....  .. ......... .. . .  .  _ _...._..,--. ...... ..T.---' '      ~~-~ ~-~~~
Ymr                   Enrollmeut ('000)                   Popuntiun aged 15-IS Vesn '(100)      |          Gn  Forollmuwt Rate
male         Female         Tnotl          Male          .FL-mal         Tota  i         ale|
1989         361.7          247.4         609.2          985.7           996.2        1,982.0        36.7%         24.8%        30.7%
1990         353.7          264.8         618.5         1,019.0         1,028.3       2,047.3        34.7%         25.8%         30.2%
1991         345.8          268.4         614.2         1,053.4         1,061.5       2,114.8        32.8%         25.3%        29.0%
1992         353.4          275.7         629.1         1,088.9         1,095.6       2,184.6        32.5%         25.2%        28.8%
1993         295.2          236.1         531.3         1,125.7         1,130.9       2,256.6        26.2%         20.9%        23.5%
1994*        336.4          283.4         619.8         1,163.7         1,167.4       2,331.1   J    28.9%         24.3%        26.6%
Source:    Ministry of Education, Statistics Section.
Note:      Enrolment data is from economic survey, Various issues.
Projected population is based on the 1989 census using annual growth rate of 3.32% for males and 3.17% for females.
Only Form 1 - 4 are considered in the calculation of enrolment rates.
*         Provisional



33
APPENDIX A
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (Credit 2295 - KE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) MISSION
AUGUST 1995
DRAFT AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A mission consisting of Ms. Reema Nayar and Mr. James Kamunge reviewed the
progress under the closed Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC) for the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). The Government provided the mission with its draft Borrower's
Evaluation report while the mission in turn provided the Government with its own draft ICR.
The mission wishes to express its thanks to the Ministry of Education (MOE) for the excellent
cooperation received.
2.    The mission provided written comments on the draft Borrower's Evaluation Report
based on the requirements of the Development Credit Agreement and the request by the Bank
(in a letter from Mr. Maas, dated January 1995, and in meetings with Mr. Jones in February
1995. The mission requests the Government to provide the Bank with a revised report and a 2-3
page summary of its revised report no later than August 31 1995 (but preferably earlier) in order
to be included in the final ICR.
3.    Program Objectives. The principal objective of this first adjustment operation in the
education sector was to support the Kenyan Government in the implementation of its education
sector reform program which sought (a) to reduce the rate of growth of the education recurrent
budget ; (b) to expand access to education and increase retention at the primary and secondary
levels, especially for children from disadvantaged areas; (c) to enhance and improve the quality
and relevance of education at all levels; and (d) to strengthen sector management, planning and
information systems. Specific actions supported by the credit included: limiting the growth of
the primary and secondary teaching forces, limiting new admissions to the public universities,
introducing a direct charge on all public university students and reforming the loan scheme, re-
introducing the public financing of textbooks to primary schools, strengthening the Ministry of
Education's Planning Unit, and strengthening the Commission for Higher Education to oversee
the development and financing of public universities. Policy measures supported in the credit
were reflected in Kenya's fourth Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1991/92-1993/94 (and
subsequently updated in the PFP for 1994-1996) and certain policy measures also formed part of
the IMF's ESAF program. Some higher education conditions were strengthened and extended
through the parallel UIP which was to support improvements in education at the public
universities.
4.    Evaluation of program obiectives: While the objectives were clear and identified the key
issues facing the education sector at the time; specific policy measures for sustainable
achievement of these objectives were inadequate.
5.    Implementation Experience and Results. Due to an addition of IDA reflows to the
second and third tranches, the size of the credit doubled and final disbursements totaled $203.4
million. As part of an amendment signed in March 1994 adding Kenya's FY94 IDA reflow to
the third tranche, the closing date was extended from June 30, 1994 to March 10, 1995. Release
of the second tranche was delayed by over a year, initially due to delay in sectoral reform (in
particular, the student loan scheme), and subsequently because an adequate macroeconomic



34
framework was not in place. The third tranche was also delayed primarily because of delay in
implementing higher education reform; it was released in December 1994 instead of September
1993.
6.     Overall, the objectives of the credit were partially achieved. Objective (a) above was
most directly addressed by the credit. Achievement of stabilization of education's recurrent
budget was partial. This is because, although the relative "explosion" in the education recurrent
budget predicted in the President's Report did not occur, and the slower growth of teachers and
university enrollments undoubtedly contributed to this result, (i) actual budgetary achievements
were more modest relative to targets in the Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), particularly if the
accumulation of arrears beginning in 1992/93 by public educational institutions (paragraph 9) are
taken into account. If these bills had been paid in time, the share of MOE in the budget would
have been larger. (ii) increased cost-sharing at the university level, was not realized during the
credit period (paragraph 9), and (iii) sustaining an appropriate budget share will depend on the
Govenment's ability to introduce deeper reforms in the areas of teacher recruitment and training
(paragraph 7) and to successfully implement new financing mechanisms to ensure appropriate
cost-sharing in university education (paragraph 10). Achievement of the strengthening of sector
management, planning and information systems has been partial; institutional strengthening at
the higher education level through the restructuring of CHE was most directly addressed by this
credit (paragraph 8). Achievement of objective (b) was negligible; indeed primary and
secondary enrollment rates dropped during the credit period. Achievement of objective (c)
cannot be determined as "quality" was never appropriately defined as an oultput nor was the
impact of interventions to improve it adequately evaluated (paragraph 7).
7.     Most specific objectives, other than in the area of higher education reform, were met but
several of these policy measures are inadequate for sustainable achievement of overall
objectives. In the case of higher education, additionally, there were significant delays in
achieving specific objectives: some important measures in higher education financing reform
were announced as recently as a few weeks ago and implementation of these is only just
beginning. In the case of primary education, the credit did not support specific policies to
address teacher supply decisions (such as the delinking of primary teacher training from public
sector employment and cost sharing in teacher education) nor a revisiting of staffing policies to
explore more cost-effective alternatives, but instead relied on ceilings on teacher numbers.
Clearly sustainability will require the introduction of deeper reform. In the case of primary
textbooks, several schools in disadvantaged areas received textbooks; budgetary allocations to
the scheme were monitored. While this is likely to have improved quality and relieved poor
parents, the cost-effectiveness of this intervention was not adequately evaluated and alternative
methods of textbook provision were not explored.
8.    The streamlining of policy formulation and university planning, budgeting and
financing, and investment and development planning began under the Policy and Planning Task
Group (PPTG) and is continuing under a restructured CHE which took over these functions one
and a half years late on July 1, 1994. PPTG performance in the interim was weakened by the
slow responsiveness from the public universities. The public universities fell into arrears during
this period (paragraph 9) and the preparation of public universities' financial plans was also
delayed significantly. A restructured CHE, has now begun to function as an effective
intennediary with respect to public universities and in particular performed effectively in the
coordination of the university financing and development plans in 1994. Performance of CHE
and the public universities will continued to be monitored under UIP. Effective performance of



35
CHE over the medium to long term will depend on the amendment of the Universities' Act to
regularize its additional functions and to harmonize the acts relating to CHE and the public
universities (which has not yet been tabled in Parliament).
9.    Finally, the most difficult reforms have been in the area of higher education financing,
specifically increased cost recovery including the establishment of an effective loan scheme.
Prior to the credit, there were no direct charges to students at public universities. Although there
was a Student's Loan Scheme (SLS), it functioned primarily as a grant scheme available to all
students. All students attending public universities received the maximum amount of the loan.
Recovery rates had been about 4% and the nominal real rate of interest had been 2% since the
inception of the scheme in 1974. A direct charge of Ksh. 6000 was introduced under the credit.
However, as a result of high inflation, the direct charge represented about 5% of the cost of
university education by the end of the credit period. The objective of increasing the direct
charge in line with inflation was dropped at the time of negotiations. The rigidity of charges to
students in the face of rising prices partly contributed to the accumulation of arrears by public
universities beginning in 1992/93. Direct cost recovery thus actually declined during the credit
period and in the absence of radically improved performance of the loan scheme (paragraph  11),
the same is true of cost-recovery more broadly defined
10.   According to the recently announced cost-sharing policies, "non-needy" students could
pay upto 42% of the direct costs of university education which includes the full cost of food and
boarding as well as direct tuition charges. Other students will be eligible for means-tested loans
of upto Ksh. 42000. All students will be required to pay a minimum direct charge of Ksh. 8000
towards tuition with bursaries provided to those who cannot pay this sum. The across the board
government grant is now Ksh. 70000 or 58% of total costs. The new policies are consistent with
the Government's Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988 as well as its commitments in its PFP (1994-96)
and in the context of third tranche release. Preparations for implementing the new student
financing package, which depends on successful implementation of means-testing, are only just
beginning and are being monitored in the context of UIP. Improvement in overall cost recovery
will also depend on improved performance of the loan scheme.
11.   Progress on loan scheme reform has been minimal during the credit period. Recovery
rates remained low (approximately 4%) during the course of the credit, the nominal rate of
interest remained 2% despite the LSP objective of gradually increasing it. Again a proposal to
include increase rate increases as tranche release conditions was removed during negotiations.
Reform of the loan scheme was never defined in terms of specific targets and clear steps were
never built in to the design. A review was initially due in draft form before negotiations but
eventually only shared with IDA over a year later. As a result, agreement on an action plan on
higher education financing was not achieved until more than a year and a half into the credit.
The Government did not meet its action plan targets during the credit period. Adequate attention
was not paid to the fact that the existing institutions were too weak and lacked the incentives to
achieve an instant turnaround in recovery. Alternatives to the existing loan scheme were not
explored; the huge public subsidies implicit in the scheme were not addressed so that the scheme
was not restricted to those without means. Kenya has yet to establish a viable loan scheme, and
treat loans as loans and not grants by decisive and immediate action on default. The
Government should also explore ways of attracting commercial banks to assume some of the
commercial risk.



36
12.   There have been some improvement in the collection rate in the last year although total
amounts due have been increasing. The Government has recently decided that, for
disbursements in academic year 1995/96 the interest rate will be increased to 4%, a modest step
in relation to the Government's objective of eventually achieving positive real interest rates on
student loans. With the enactment of the Higher Education Loans Board Act on July 21, 1995,
the functions formerly carried out by the SLS unit in the MOE are being transferred to the new
Loans Board. The Act grants enhanced legal powers for loan recovery and assigns the
responsibility of determining the interest rate on student loans to the Board. The Loans Board
will handle means-tested bursaries as well as means-tested loans and financial assistance will be
extended to students in private tertiary institutions. Future progress in loan scheme reform will
also be monitored in the context of UIP.
13.   Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned Adequate
preparation and clear dialogue based on economic and sector work is crucial for successful
design and implementation, particulaly in the case of difficult reform measures. The policies
supported by the credit, in general, did not adequately address underlying incentives (such as
individuals'decisions to become teachers, or to get a public university education), nor explore
cost-effective alternatives to centralized decision making and public provision, but concentrated
more on inputs than on outputs ( for example, trained teachers and textbooks instead of student
learning). Adequate evaluations of the impact of interventions should be included. An
investment project which addresses future reform in the context of more direct support to the
education sector and addresses some of the weaknesses above is more appropriate instrument for
future lending. A future project should include more direct measures to increase participation in
quality primary and secondary education, and could support the establishment of more
sustainable financing mechanisms at all levels of education, including support for means testing
mechanisms and the establishment of commercially based loan scheme in higher education.



37
SEN7 BY:WORLD B.A.X           4- 3-95;              WORLD BAINX 38379-'     202 473 8299;X 5/25
Appendix B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION
THE EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CR.2295-KE)
SUMMRY OF THEIMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT.
Preamble
The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC) came at a time whcn the Government was
malking great efforts to improve its microeconomic environment and was implementing a major
stabilization and adjustment program since 1986. The Education reform program was contained
in Sessional Paper No.6 of 1988, and EdSAC ha supported Govcrnmcnt's efforts as stated in
the Sessional Paper to (a) reduce the rate of growth of the educational recurrent budget to a
sustainable level, (b) expand access to education and increase retention at the primary and
secondary level; (c) enhance and improve the quality and relevance of education; and (d)
strengthen sector management, planning, budgeting and information systems.
Program Objectives
While the program objectives identified the key issues facing the education sector, some
objectives were quitc broad and are not easily measurable, e.g. improving the quality and
relevance of education. For purposes of assessment and evaluation, it would have been
appropriate to identify key indicators that would be useful to gauge the extent to which these
objectives have been met.
Implementation Experience and Results
Containing the growth of the Education's Recurrent Budget
Efforts were made to contain the sector's recurrent budget, mainly by controlling teacher
numbers at primary and secondary levels, and enrolments at university level. Implementation
on the reform program on the Student Loin Scheme continued unabated. The Ministry continucs
to take precautionary measures to contain the sector's budget, as is evident from the continued
low intakes at teacher training colleges (e.g. only 6000 students were admitted for 1995/96
primary teacher training, down from 8,000). Great rationality is being exercised in makdng
decisions, whereby the teachers are now trained according to the needs of specific districts.
Institutions are being encouraged to look into ways of generating income, so that they do not
have to rely wholly on meagre allocations fom the Exchequer. The cost-sharing spirit has taklen
effect and, though it has been difficult for poor households to share the costs, the important thing
is that the concept has been accepted and this is evident from  the efforts parents and
communities are making towards meeting the cost of education at all levels.
While the real recurrent expenditure grrw during the credit period, this was at a lower rate than
would have been the case if these measures were not taken. It should also be noted here that the
impact of any measures taken may not be seen or felt immediately, but as the Government
continues to reinforce these measures such impacts will become more apparent.



38
SENT BY:WORLD BA.NX             4- 9-95               WORLD BMNK 38379-        202 473 8299:# 6/25
:/6
Expanding Access to Education
The move to contain the Education's budget while trying to expand accss to education has not
reconciled well. While there has bccn a high social demand for education, other factors have
hindered access. The cost of education has become a heavy burden on the households, majority
of whom have low income. There has been a notable decrease in participation rates at primary
and secondary levels during the credit period. Statistics show that these went down from 89.7%.
in 1991 to 82.4% in 1994 at the pn mary level. At university level, delibceate meatures were
taken to limit intakes, n order to match these with the available facilities. Apart from
uruversities, the existing post-secondary institutions are not adequate to absorb those who cannot
get access to university education. This leaves private institutions and overseas education for
those who can afford, while those who cannot afford have to look for altemative ways such as
getting into the world of work, especially in the informal sector.
The Government has intervened in the area of access, by way of introducing loans and bursaries
to the needy students at secondary and tertiary levels of education. Before the credit period, the
loans only existed at university level. This move, once properly established, will have great
impact on access. Several studies are being undertaken to look further into this issue, including
the ODA sponsored project on Strengthening of Primary Education, which is looking into causes
of primary school wastage (drop-out and repetition) among others. These studies will provide
a good basis for operational plans of action tobe made in order to intervene in this area of
access.
Enhancing and Improving the Quality of Education
This is one objective which was 4uitc broad and noL casily measurable. For purposes of the
reform program, quality and relevance issues werc mainly being tackled from the point of view
of revision of curriculum, in-servicing of teachers and provision of text books to primary
schools. One of the functions of the Kenya Institute of Fducation has been to review curriculum
for primary and secondary levels, and this has condnued during the credit period. A plan of
action was worked out at the beginning of the credit period for revision of curriculum and in-
servicing of teachers. However, the Institute was not able to go by the work plan and could not
undertake some of the activities as planned, such as a crash-programme to in-service teachers
on the revised curriculum, which was part of the reform program, due to financial constraints.
The provision of text books was another positive move towards improving quality. An evaluation
on the text-book project found that in terms of coverage, over 90 % of the target beneficiaries
had been reached, while in terms of impact, "the books have proved very useful td the
beneficiaries". The most apparent impact would be portraycd through cxamination performance,
especially at national level.
Clearly, the area of quality requires further refinement in terms of understanding what factors
should be taken into account, and what policy measures should be put in place for sustainable
aclhievement. The first objective of containing the education budget has quality implications, and
thcse should be looked into. Govemnment intervention in the provision of textbooks is very



39
SENT BY: WORLD B.NX1(         ; 4- 9-9;5             WORLD BANK 38379-       202 473 8299;x 7/25
useful, and greater support is required for greater coverage in terms of student population and
subject area.
Strengthening Sector Management, Planning, budgetlng and Infozmatlon systems
This was to be undertakcn by strengthening the Commission for Higher Education (CEE), and
improving infonnanon systems, policy analysis and planning in the Ministry of Education. As
far as CUE is concemed, though the pace did not go as planned, thfer has been tremendous
achievements over the credit period. The most important thing is that CHE is now recognized
and accepted as an intermediary with respect to public universiies. As evidence of its
effectiveness, CHE coordinated the preparation of universities' financial and development plans
in 1994. The amendment of the Universities Act to regularze its additional functions and to
harmonize the acts relating to CHLI and the public universities, will enhance CHE's
effectiveness.
Concerning the Ministry of Eduction information system, policy analysis and planning, the
notable progress during the credit period was the establishment of a data base in the Ministry's
Planning and Development Division, through support from ODA. The database has so far only
taken care of primary school statistics, and is currently extending to secondary school statistics.
The initial task of having records of all schools is enormous, and it is hoped that once all records
are entered with proper codes there will be some stability. However, the recent establishment
of new districts, and therefore new zones, has brought about new chalenges and there is need
for further support in terms of provision of more equipment and training of personned, in order
to achieve greater coverage, i.e. to capture data on pre-school and tertiary levels.
Borrower's Perfornance
Thc foregoing information would show that the Borrower made efforts, with great difficulties
in some cases, in attempting to meet the objectives of the program. The credit was not of direct
benefit to the Ministry since the funds went to the Exchequer, and the Ministry played its role
in trying to meet the Bank's conditionalities so that the tranches could be released to the
Treasury. Tlhe fact that the three traches have been released, though with delays, show that the
Borrower fulfilled what was required to acceptable levels.
The Bank's Performance
In as far as supervision of the credit was concerned, the Bank's performance was satisfactbry.
The Supervision Missions were regular and fruitful, and the Aide-Memoires were quite useful
in guiding progress. The Bank was clear and precise as to the requirements of the Credit
Covcnants and where MOE/GOK could not comply for various reasons the Bank showed
understanding and some flcxibility. Concerning the credit itself, and comparing it to previous
credits which came directly to the Ministry and were administered through the Projects
Implementation Unit, EdSAC was of greater benefit to the Government of Kenya in general than
to the Ministry.



40
APPENDIX C
Intem;ational Development Association
FO R O FFICLAL. LSE ONLY
IDA/Sec.Y93-378
FROM: The President                                              Dpce-ber 7, 1993
KEN'A - Education Sector Adiustment Credit (CR 2295-KE)s
Release of the Second Tranche including MDA Reflows
1.    This memorandum summarizes the progress that Kenya has made under
the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EDSAC) and evaluates compliance with
the agreed conditions for the release of the second tranche of the Credit (SDR
62.62 million), as set out in paragraph 4(a) of Schedule I to the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA). The Credit was approved by the Board on September
5, 1991 and the Agreement became effective on September 27, 1991. The total
credit amount was SDR 75.90 million, which was subsequently increased to SDR
113.52 million, to take account of IDA Reflows (SDR 37.62 million) in FY93.
-.-_
L. BACKGROUND
2.     EDSAC supports the Government of Kenya as it implements its
Education Sector Adjustment Program, the first phase of reforms in the education
sector adopted as govemrnent policy in Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988. The
Sessional Paper seeks to achieve the following: (a) reduce the rate of growth of
the education recurrent budget to a sustainable level, and a level commnensurate
with overall government expenditure targets; (b) expand access to education and
increase retention at the primary and secondary levels, especially for children
from disadvantaged areas and, following a period of consolidation, a phased
*Questions relating to the education sector mnay be referred to Mr. Bruce Jones
(ext. 32940).  Questions relating to the macroecononic framework mnay be
referred to Mr. Colin Bruce (ext. 34160).
Distribution
Executive Directors and Alternates
Office of the President
Executive Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Vice Presider.s. Bank. IFC and MIGA
Directors ar.i Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MtIGA



41
expansion of tertiary education; (c) enhance and improve the quality and
relevance of education at all levels; and (d) strengthen sector management,
planning, budgeting and information systems.
3.      As set out in Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (a) to the DCA, second tranche
release shall occur once IDA is satisfied: (i) with the progress achieved in
carrying out the Education Sector Adjustment Program; (ii) that the
macroeconomic framework is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and
(iii) that the specific actions described in Schedule 3 (A) to the DCA have been
taken. Tranche release had originally been scheduled for September 1992 but has
been held up until now, because of both the macroeconomic situation and delays
in  meeting  the  sectoral conditions of release.   Section  I reviews  the
macroeconomic framework, describes the economic deterioration in the last two
years which has contributed to the delay in tranche -lease, and outlines the
measures taken recqntly to restore macroeconomnic st.. lity. Section II briefly
reviews progress with the overall implementation or policy reforms in the
education sector. Section III evaluates compliance with the agreed conditions for
second tranche release of EDSAC.
H. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
4.      Macroeconomic Concers Which Delayed Second Tranche Release.
Kenya's macroeconomic policy performance was evaluated in September 1992
for second tranche release of EDSAC, and found to be unsatisfactolry. The areas
of primary concern were the monetary, financial and external sectors (and not
fiscal policy, which had been the problem earlier). These concerns intensified
later. By the end of 1992, annual broad money growth reached 34 percent,
compared to a target of 9 percent; money supply growth during the second half
of the year was almost 60 percent on an annualized basis. This expansion was
driven largely by the access of a number of increasingly distressed banks to
overdraft and rediscount facilities of the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) and
reflected CBK's failure to enforce prudential regulations. As a result, inflation_
rose from 19.6 p-rcent during 1991 and 27.3 percent during 1992, to an
annualized rate of 42 percent in February 1993. Concurrently, real interest rates,
which  were  already  negative, deteriorated  further.   These  developments
confirmed the Bank's earlier concerns about the deterioration of macroeconomic
managemeDt which predated the September review. I/
The major concerns predating the tranche release review were deficiencies in fiscal policy.
tnstead of failing close to the revised target of2.5 percentofGDP (including grants) in FY91
(i.e.. end-June 1991), the budget deficit had risen sharply to 7.1 percent in FY91. Because
of the deteriorauing macroeconomic policy performance (and. in the case of bilaterl donors,
growing concerns ui-r governance issues), participants decided at the Consultative Group
(CG) meeting in No% ember 1991 to postpone commitment of new quick-disbursing balance
of payments support and agreed that there should be periodic consultations to assess the
situation. A subscquent review mission by the OMF (in December 1991) found th3t key
benchmarks. particul4rly relating to fiscal policy, had been missed. As a result. the lMF
ESAF was suspended .nd replaced in April 1992 by a Fund-monitored program covering the
last eight months ov 1992. In September 1992 a review of macroeconomic performance by
the Bank. which coincided with a Fund mission to assess progress under the Fund-monitored



42
5.      In September 1992, external sector policies were deficient in three major
respects. First, the official exchange rate, which governed about 80 percent of
foreign exchange transactions, was appreciating (e.g., in real effective terms by
3 percent in July 1992 compared to July 1991). Second, the introduction in
August 1992 of 100 percent retention of foreign exchange for exporters of non-
traditional goods helped to improve the incentives in this segment of the export
market, but it discriminated against exports of services and traditional goods.
Third, the spread between the official and the nascent inter-bank exchange rates
frequently ranged between 35 and 50 percent, indicating fundamental
disequilibrium in the foreign exchange market.
6.      As a result of these deficiencies in the macroeconomic framework as well
as the Government's failure to meet the sector-specific conditions, IDA held back
the second tranches for the on-going EDSAC, Export Development Project (EDP
- Cr. 2197-KE), and the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
(ASAO II - Cr. 2204-KE). Later, in October/November 1992, there was also
a reversal on liberalization of maize movement, prompting IDA to cancel the
second tranche of ASAO II'in December 1992.
7.      Kenya's macroeconomic policy performance was reviewed again by a
joint IMFIIDA mission in February/March 1993 and was again found to be
unsatisfactory. Following the September 1992 review, the Governnent had
implemented a number of additional external sector policies as a step towards
meeting the macroeconomic conditions for tranche release.  The measures
included: (a) introduction of foreign exchange retention accountrcovering 50
percent of traditional merchandise exports (October 1992), and 50 percent of
services (February 1993); (b) expansion of the inter-bank foreign exchange
market (February 1993); and (c) abolition of the parastatal monopoly in the
coffee auction and broadening of private sector participation in the export of tea
(O:ctober 1992). However, expansionary monetary policies exacerbated inflation
and created a widening spread between the market-determined inter-bank
exchange rate and the official exchange rate. Furthermore, because of negative
real interest rates, excess liquidity in the banking system and the continuing
impasse between the Government and multilateral financial institutions,
speculation against the Kenya shilling increased. Instead of taking measures to
tighten substantially its monetary stance, bring inflation under control, and
achieve meaningful fiscal compression. the Government announced, on March
22. 1993,-iEs intention to reverse previously adopted measures.  Retention
accounts were no longer allowed and all export earnings were to be remitted to
CBK at the official rate. The Government also indicated that it would reimpose
price controls, although this did not occur. The Government soon recognized
program. 'ound thJ r6iscaI discipline had increased and that this had helped to reduce the fiscal
deficit for FY92 to .bouc 3.7 percent of GDP (including grants. commirinent basis). This was
close to the urget of 3.5 percent of GDP (including grants) which months earlier had been
revised upward from 2 percent of GDP (includine grants) due to a sizable Supplementary
Buder. e.xpenditure overruns in a number of the large ministries. the assumption of
significant amounts of parastaEl external debt service obligations. and continuing weaknesses
in utx administrarion.



43
that while these actions might temporarily relieve the shortage of foreign
exchange at the CBK. they would not redress the fundamental macroeconomic
imbalances which were aggravating inflation, weakening the Kenya shilling and
undermining confidence in Kenya's economic management.
8.     Measures Taken  During A2ril-May  1993 to  Restore A  Sound
Macroeconomic Framework. When a small mission comprising Fund and Bank
staff visited Kenya during the first week of April at the invitation of the
Government, the Kenyan authorities indicated that they wished to undertake all
the monetary and external policy measures proposed by the February/March
IMF/IDA mission and reiterated in IDA's letters of March 1993. IDA's letters
also included some of the critical steps to alleviate bank distress and enhance
prudential supervision as identified by an IDA financial sector review mission
which visited Kenya in March 1993.. During April-May 1993, CBK adopted
measures aimed at tightening monetary and financial sector policies and thereby
controlling aggregate demand:
EFtit, open market operations were used aggressively to raise noninal
interest rates on treasury bills to a weighted average rate of 48.5 percent
by April 20, 1993 comrpared to around 17 percent in February 1993 (the
year-over-year inflation rate in March 1993 was around 35 percent).
Some of the treasury bills sold were derived from the conversion of a
significant portion of the Government's overdraft with the Central Bank
to tradeable securities.
Second, overdrafts of commercial banks with the Central Bank, which
stood at K Sh 7.5 billion on March 31, 1993, were reduced to K Sh 1.3
billion (April 20, 1993) in line with the interirn target for the net
domestic assets set by the IMF.
Third, the cash ratio for banks was raised from 6 to 8 percent, while the
penalties for noncompliance with this ratio were stiffened substantially.
Fourth, access to the rediscount window of the Central Bank became
linited to the discount of Treasury Bills with less than 45 days to
maturity.  No new commitments were made under the export pre-
shipment rediscount facility (one of the causes of excess liquidity) which
was closed at end-April 1993 when its remaining obligations matured.
Fifth, two banks with seriously impaired portfolios were placed under
statutory management. Eight non-bank financial institutions (NBFls)
wi:h similar problems were placed in the hands of liquidators. The
hareholders of two other delinquent banks were required to make
lbs;antial equity ccntributions to meet the cash ratio, and statutory
pital adequacy and liquidity requirements by an agreed deadline or lose
!ir licenses.



44
9.     The Government also took initial steps to strengthen and enforce
prudential regulations in order to prevent a recurrence of the strucrural problens
which led to monetary mismanagement.
Special audits were commissioned for selected financial institutions to
determine their financial condition and soundness, with particular
emphasis on portfolio quality. The audits were scheduled for completion
by end-June 1993. They were to forrn the basis for further remedial
actions, following discussions with IDA.
In addition, most exemptions granted by the previous Minister of
Finance, under Section 53 of the Banking Act, from prudential
regulations were revoked. The institutions in receipt of these exemptions
were given approximately one month to comply with all regulations from
which they, were exempted.  The Government also initiated the
amnendment of Section 53 of the Act with a view to eliminating most
discretionary exemptions from prudential regulations, and agreed that
these powers will not be exercised.
Licenses will not be issued for new banks or NBFIs until June 1994 at
the earliest, and then only after time-bound actions are adopted, in
consultation with IDA, for re-inforcing prudential and regulatory
requirements.
10.   On May 14, 1993, the Government devalued the Kenya shifllng by about
7 percent to K Sh 64 per USS, bringing it within 10 percent of the market-
deternined interbank rate which stood at about K Sh 70 per USS. This
adjustment followed two earlier devaluations which had each brought the official
rate of the Kenya shilling closer to the interbank rate: a 25 percent devaluation
on March 9, 1993 which moved the official rate to K Sh 45 per USS, and
another 23 percent devaluation on April 20, 1993 which had moved it to K Sh
60 per USS. The May 14 devaluation was accompanied by the adoption of
supporting monetary policies, the abolition of import licenses for all but a small
negative list of conmnodities, and the reintroduction of 50 percent retention of all
export earnings (which must be used, however, or sold within 90 days). These
actions were important steps in the renewed effort by the Government to
liberalize the foreign exchange regime, strengthen external sector policies and
enhance macroeconomic stability.
11.   Separatelv, the Government stepped up its efforts in March 1993 to
enhance fiscal performance, partly by freezing all unnecessary non-wage
expenditures until the end of the FY93. This approach, of course, did not
achieve sustained fiscal compression in the medium-term.  However. the
Government in'ficaced its commitment to tackle the underlying structural
problemns which drive its wage bill and reopened the dialogue with the Bank and
the Fund on the mdali6ies of implementation. Greater attention was also being
paid to recovering uncollected taxes and debt service payments from parastatals.



45
12.   On the basis of the actions set out in paras. 7-10 above, IDA releascd the
second tranche of EDP on May 7. 1993.
13.   At the time, the Governnent also indicated its willingness to take
additional actions, in close consultation with IDA and the Fund, as the evolving
economic situation required. In May, the Government agreed on a formal IMF-
monitored macroeconomic program for the remainder of 1993. The program
sought to quickly stabilize the economy, achieve fiscal and monetary
compression, improve the financial performance of key strategic parastatals,
eluniinate most of the remaining price controls, increase the role of markets in
determining maize prices and movement, and liberalize further the current
account of the balance of payments.
14.   Policy Reversals in May/June 1993. and Subsequent Corrective Actions.
Following release pf the second tranche of EDP, the subsequent abolition of
import licenses and the reintroduction of 50 percent foreign exchange retention,
IDA was about to release the second tranche of EDSAC in early June 1993.
However, it came to light that major irregularities in foreign exchange and
interbank transactions were undermining the macroeconomic program  and
weakening discipline in the financial sector. After these irregularities were-
discussed with the Government in early August 1993, IDA communicated to the
Govermment a list of corrective actions necessary for tranche release. These have
now been implemented as discussed in paras. 14-17.
15.   Consistent with its cornmitment to take addidonal actions as the evolving
econormic situation required and the recommendations of IDA, the Governnent
implemented additional measures intended to further tighten monetary and
financial sector policies:
EsW, the cash ratio for banks was raised in two further steps to 12
percent;
Second, the Clearing House arrangements, which allowed commercial
banks to run overdrafts with the Central Bank, were abolished. An
institution which is unable to cover its obligations at settlement now has
to borrow from other commercial banks (up to a maximum of K Sh 100
million), and will be allowed back into the Clearing House only after the
advance has been cleared in full.
Third. a series of illegal transactions between the Central Bank and four
commercial banks, which were confirmed by special investigations, were
reversed. Appropriate interest costs and penalties were levied on the
banks involved. The licenses of three of the four banks implicated in the
transactions were revoked. Separately, the license of another bank,
which failed to meet prudential regulations, was also revoked.
Fourth, the foreign assets position of CBK was audited and measures
were put in place to ensure more accurate accounting for foreign



46
exchange. CBK's senior management, including the Governor, were
replaced.
16.    The Government has continued its attempts to strengthen and enforce
prudential regulations in order to prevent a recurrence of the structural problems
which led to monetary mismanagement.
At the insistence of the Central Bank, the shareholders of one
commercial bank made substantial equity contributions to meet the cash
ratio and statutory capital adequacy and liquidity requirements. Tlhe
Government has announced its intention to float its shares in the bank in
question by June 1994, after appropriate restructuring.
Another delinquent bank, which was under threat of losing its license,
improved loan recoveries, received substantial equity injections from its
shareholders and took actions to improve loan securitization, thus
bringing it into com. iance with the Banking Act and prudential
regulations.   In addition, several directors of this institution were
removed.
Special audits of selected financial institutions to determine their financial
condition and soundness, with particular emphasis on portfolio quality,
were completed and made available to IDA. These audits are now under
discussion with IDA and will form the basis for further remedial actions.
Section 53 of the Banking Act was amended to eliminate most of the
discretionary exemptions from prudential regulations and all exemptions
not consistent with the amendment were revoked.
17.    The tightening of monetary and financial sector policies helped to reverse
the rapid depreciation of the Kenya shilling: the market-determined interbank
exchange rate appreciated from around K Sh 82 per USS at end-June 1993 to
about K Sh 70 per USS in late Se.ptember 1993. This paved the way for the
unification of the official and market exchange rates on October 17, 1993; the
official rate is now set at the previous day's average market rate. Arrears on
private trade credit were cleared while arrears on public and public guaranteed
debt began to decline.  The tighter monetary stance also contributed to the
reduction iF in'lation from around 100 percent (annualized rate) in the second
quarter of 1993 to 55 percent in the third quarter. With this reduction in
inflation, nominal short-term interest rates on Treasury bills have begun to
decline but thev remain positive in real terms.
18.    On the fiscal front, the crucial actions for tranche release were the
substantial upward adjustment of the consumer price of maize to reduce the
budgetary subsidy. and the issuance of circulars indicating that sanctions would
be imposed on accounfing officers who are responsible for questionable
procurement practices and unauthorized or extrabudgetary expenditures. Both
conditions were met in September 1993, Earlier, the Budget announced in June
1993 featured significant expenditure compression. rationalization of the tariff



47
and VAT'structures, and funding for downsizing the civil service, initially
through voluntary early retirement.  Budgetary projections that anticipated
curbing the fiscal deficit to 4 percent of GDP (commitment basis, excluding
grants) have, however, been undermined by: (a) additional domestic interest
payments (equal to 2.7 percent of GDP) resulting from interest rates that have
been kept at higher than projected levels for monetary policy purposes; (b) a
higher than budgeted maize subsidy; and (c) the fiscal costs of CBK's earlier
failure to enforce financial sector discipline. In September 1993, the Goverrunent
reached agreement with the IMF on additional revenue and expenditure measures
to contain the deficit (excluding grants) to no more than 6.1 percent of GDP in
1993/94, compared to 10.4 percent in 1992/93.
19.   Other measures were taken inter alia to reduce the pressure on the fiscal
deficit immediately and in Mhe longer run. All restrictions were removed on the
importation of maize and on the domestic movement of imported maize, thereby
reducing the subsidy required by the National Cereals and Produce Board. All
. _  ,                  restrictions on the movement of domestically produced maize in loads of up to
_ ,,*. >Ieighty-eight 90 kilograrn bags were also removed. A comprehensive civil service
reform program, involving the retrenchment of civil servants in lower grades and
provision of a safety net for these retrenched workers, was launched officially.
The Government also replaced the top management of the Kenya Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (KPITC) which is perfor ing poorly and
'                  contributing to the 'iscal deficit, and announced its endorsement of the decision
- - ito separate the KPTC's postal and telecommunications activities Ath a view to
- s                privatizing eventually the latter.
20.   These improvements in the policy environment facilitated the successful
negotiation of a one-year ESAF arrangement with the IMF, which is cast in a
three-year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1994-96 agreed in October 1993.
The CG of donors on Kenya also met on November 22 and 23, 1993 and
indicated new commitments for 1994 totalling S850 million, of which S170
million is in the form of quick-disbursing balance of payments support. These
amounts are sufficient to fund the residual external financing gap for 1994 as
*                 envisioned under the ESAF arrangement. However, donors emphasized that the
translation of these commitments into disbursements depended on the timely and
decisive implementation by the Government of the economic reforrn agenda
J                  presented in the PFP.
InI. PROGRESS WVITH THE EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
PROGRAM
21.   Containing the Growth of Education's Recurrent Budget.  The
uncontrolled expansion of Govermment spending on education during the 1980s
was one of the principal causes of Kenya's fiscal deficit and was due principally
to rapid increases in teacher numbers, especially at the primary level, and to the
explosive growth of the public universities. Both teacher numbers and the
growth of university admissions have been stabilized under the program. cost
sharing has been introduced at the universities, and the share of education in the
budget is no longer increasing. The stabilization of education spending is



48
sustainable because it is based on dealing with the root causes of the previous
uncontrolled expansion.
22.    ExDanding Access to Education. While Kenya has a high overall primary
participation rate and it is government policy to achieve universal primary
education as soon as possible, primary participation rates are low and there is a
high dropout rate in two parts of the country: the arid and semi-arid lands and
the peri-urban areas. The Government has increased allocations for providing
textbooks for children attending school in disadvantaged areas, as the cost of
their provision by parents had been a bar to enrollment. It is also carrying out
a study to understand more fully the causes and extent of non-enrollment, to be
followed by the design of appropriate measures to address this problem. At the
tertiary level, expansion is now occurring in a controlled manner, with
admissions to public universities limited to a maximum growth rate of 3 percent
per annum  and wjth active measures to encourage the establishment and
expansion of private universities.
23.    Enhancinz and Improving the Ouality of Education. The Government
has initiated a revision of the curricula for both primary and secondary schools.
following an Evaluation Report on the 844 (primary-secondary-tertiary) system
introduced in the mid-1980s. - The syllabuses have been revised so that the
subject content can be covered within the allotted time, overlapping primary and
secondary- content has been removed, duplication of content across different
subjects has been minimized, and the content has been readjusted to the-
conceptual level of students. Textbooks and other materials are now being
revised accordingly and a program of inservice training for teachers has been
drawn up. In addition, as noted in paragraph 13, primary school textbooks are
now being made available to students in disadvantaged areas. Finally, a part of
each university student's loan is now earmarked for textbooks, and cannot be
converted into cash.
24.   Strengthening Sector Manaeement. Planning. Budgeting and Information
Systems. The Ministry of Education is proceeding with a plan of action to train
educational managers, administrators, supervisors and planners, and to provide
complementary equipment such as computers. The Ministry's data needs have
been assessed for primary and secondarv education and are being reviewed for
other education levels. These activities are being financed both under the IDA
Education VI Project (Cr. 1673-KE) and by the British Overseas Development
Administration.  At the university level, arrangements are in place for the
progressive assumption by the Commission for Higher Education (CHE) of the
responsibility for the planning, programrnming, budgeting and financing of the
public universities.
IV. RELEASE OF THE SECOND TRANCHE
25.    The status of each specific action to be taken prior to second tranche
release, as set out in Schedule 3 (A) of the Development Credit Aereement, is
now reviewed in curn.



49
26.    Satisfactory provision for the education sector in the 1992/93 Budget
Estimates of actual recurrent and development budeets, including specific
budgetary allocations for Drimary school textbooks. CHE. institutional
strengtheninz in the Ministry of Education and the Universities Investment
Proiect (Cr. 2309-KE). This condition has been met. The budget, as amended
by the revised estimates, contains for the first time in many years provision for
school textbooks, and the expenditure has already been incurred; funding for the
Policy and Planning Task Group which is preparing for the full takeover by CHE
of responsibility for the public universities; funds for the strengthening of
Schools Inspection (especially field services), the Kenya National Examiinations
Council, and research into primary school wastage; and adequate counterpart
funds for the IDA-financed Universities Investment Project.
27.    Satisfactory provisional actual recurrent and development budget
outcomes for 1991/92. This condition has been met. The recurrent budget
outcome indicated a stabilization in education's share. Development expenditure
for education, as for other sectors, was well below that budgeted, but the
-s                  priorities were maintained.
28.    Satisfactory updated education sector investment plan. This condition
has been met. A first ever public investment program (PIP) for the sector has
been drawn up. While there is still major scope for improvement, this in itself
is a major step forward, toward the prioritization of projects. The PIP identifies
core, high priority, medium priority and other projects.
29.    New admissions to Primary Teacher Colleges in 1992 have not exceeded
8,000 and include at least 3.000 experienced untrained teachers and no more than
5.000 school leavers. This condition has been met. 8,000 were admitted to the
colleges, of whom 7,413 were untrained teachers and 587 were school leavers.
30.    The number of teachers on the Teachers Service Commission (TSC)
primary pavroll has not exceeded 175.000. of which no more than 36.000-are
untrained teachers. This condition has been substantively met. The number
of primary teachers in January 1993 was 175,470 (including 32,587 untrained),
j                   or slightly over 175,000. The target of 175,000 was determined during EDSAC
appraisal on the basis of an estimated annual attrition rate for primary teachers
(2.5%>, which was higher than the actual rate has turned out to be (1.25%).
Hence the slight excess over 175,000 by January 1993 reflects a reasonable
hiring level combined with an unexpectedly low attrition rate.
31.    The number of teachers on the TSC secondary pavroll has not exceeded
33.000 and the number of non-teachine staff on the payroll remains at no more
than 4.600. This condition has been met. The number of secondary teachers
on the payroll in Jrtn ry 1993 was 32,098. Non-teaching staff on the payroll,
but still employed ir educational institutions, amounted to 4,486. In addition,
about 600 TSC employees who are not working at educational institutions are
beine transferred into the civil service establishment.



50
32.    Admission to Dublic universities for academic year 1992/93 has not
exceeded 10.300 undereraduates. This condition has been met. Adrnissions
were 10,189.
33.    1mgiementation has commenced of a satisfactorv plan for restructurine
CHE to enable it to handle effectively the planning, proerammin2. budgeting and
financing of public universities. This condition has been met. A Policy and
Planning Task Group was established in 1990 and continues to prepare for the
assumption of these tasks by CHE. It is working very effectively, but the
timetable for its original work prograrn has proved to be overambitious,
particularly in view of the need to build consensus for its activities and because
of the need for legislation to effect the legal harmonization of the universities and
for CHE to take over the new functions. While the formal takeover of these
functions by CHE will be delayed, however, there is an adequate plan under
implementation for :CHE to progressively take them over, even in advance of
legislation.
34.    For academic year 1992/93 each new and returning student of public
universities has paid a minimum direct charge of K Sh 6.000: no more than 20
percent of students of public universities have received financial support to assist
in meeting this charee: and the student loan has been ca2ped at K Sh 21.500 for
each student. of which K Sh 3.500 has been allocated for books and no more
than K Sh 2.500 has been made available for personal expenses. This condition
has been met. While there were delays in starting the academic yar until April
1993, all the public universities have now opened. All students have paid the
direct charge of K Sh 6,000, bursaries equivalent to 20 percent of the number of
students times the direct charge have been made available to needy students, and
the loan has been capped in accordance with the condition. A small exception
has been made to enable slightly larger loans for students on courses that last
longer than the usual nine month academic year.
35.    The Borrower has completed a review of mechanisms to im)rove the
student loan scheme and is implementing a Olan of action to improve the recoverv
rate of student loans. This condition has been met. The Government submitted
to IDA on Mlay 12, 1993 a policy statement on Financing University Education
and Students Loans which is based upon four principles: the careful targeting of
both bursaries and loans, on the basis of means testing; the progressive
eliminationiTof interest subsidies on student loans, to make the interest rates
positive in real terms; a system of university charges that clearly separates the
costs of tuition from those of accommodation and food, and moves toward full
cost recovery for the latter; and the establishment of a small body, independent
of the Ministry of Education, with responsibility for the oversight of loan
disbursement a4n  rei:very, which will be contracted out to commercial banks.
The policy v :a:.nc  is accompanied by a multivear action plan for its
implementaiton.  htih has already begun.
27.    The Borro'.ier has submitted a report on the im2act of the direct charge
on the enrollmrTnt nmn  the uriversities of economically disadvantaoed sroups and
Wome n. This condition has been met. -the Government submitted a report to



51
IDA on May 31, 1993, based on preliminary data. It shows that women are
having proportionately less financial difficulty than men in meeting the charges.
Analysis continues on the impact on the economically disadvantaged. The
delayed opening of the universities until April 1993 means also that full data are
only just becoming available on why some students accepted places at universities
but did not in fact register. Reasons could include financial difficulty but
historically have tended mainly to reflect a decision to attend university outside
Kenya or not to attend university at all. A fuller report will be provided to IDA
prior to third tranche release.
V. CONCLUSION
28.   The Government has fulfilled the conditions for the release of the second
tranche of the Education Sector Adjustment Credit.  The macroeconomic
framework is consistent with the objectives and policies designed to achieve
structural adjustment of the borrower's education sector and adequate progress
has been made on the sector adjustment program. In addition, the specific               4
conditions for second tranche release relating to the education sector have been
met as detailed above. Consequently, the Government of Kenya has been
advised of the availability of the second tranche of SDR 62.62 million from the
Credit.
Lewis T. Preston



52
International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA/SecM94-3 73
FROM: The President                                               December 13, 1994
KENYA - Education Sector Adiustmrent Credit tCr. 2295-KE)
Release of the Third Tranche Includine an IDA Reflow ^
1. Background
1. The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (EdSAC), originally amounting to SDR 75.9
million was approved by the Board in Septenber 1991, following which the first tranche of SDR
25.9 million was released. As set out in the President's Report, it was originally expected that the
second tranche would be released following a supervision mission in Septenber 1992, and that the
third tranche would be released following a supervision nission in Septernber 1993.
2. In the actual event, release of the second tranche was delayed, initially because of delays in
fulfilling of some of the conditions in the education sector, and subsequently because an adequate
macroeconomic program was not in place. The Government put an adequate macroecononic
program in place toward the end of 1993, and the second tranche of SDR 62.6 million (including
an IDA Reflow of SDR 37.6 million) was therefore released in December 1993.
3.    T-he original Closing Date was June 30, 1994. However, as part of an Amendmnent signed
on March 10, 1994, adding Kenya's FY94 IDA Reflow to the third tranche, the Closing Date was
extended to March 10, 1995. The Government has recently met all remaining third tranche
conditions, and this Memorandum therefore sets out the justification for release of the third and
final tranche of SDR 55.3 million, including an IDA Reflow of SDR 30.3 million. According to
Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of the Credit Agreement, the third tranche is available only after the
Bank is satisfied: (i) with the progress in carrying out the Programn of sector adjustment described
in the Letter of Education Sector Policy (LSP); (ii) with the rnacroeconomic franework; and (iii)
that the specific actions described in Schedule 3(B) have been taken. These are taken up below,
with the macroeconomic framework discussed first.
*Questions relating to the education sector mnay be referred to Mr. Bruce N. Jones (X 32940).
Questions relating to the macroeconomic framework may be referred to Mr. Anand Rajaram
(X 33754) or Mr. Robert Blake (X 34169).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
Office of the President
Senior Management, Bank, IFC and MICA



53
II. The Macroeconomic Framework
4.     As Executive Directors were previously informed,I an adequate macroeconomic
framework was not in place in Kenya during 1992 and the first part of 1993. In particular, the
fiscal deficit was excessive at 10.4% of GDP in fiscal year 1992193; the growth of the money
supply, partly reflecting Central Bank advances to distressed banks which had not observed
prudential regulations, was excessive at 35% in the twelve months ending June 1993; inflation
surged, peaking at 54%, and yielding negative real interest rates; and real GDP was stagnant.
5.     Toward the end of 1993, the Government put into place a program, described in the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1994-96 and in a one-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) arrangement with the IMF, aimed at achieving renewed growth, through macroeconomic
stablization and accelerated structural reforn. Progress in implementing this program has recently
been reviewed by the Bank and Fund staff. The Government budget deficit, treating grants as a
deficit-financing item, was reduced to 7.4% of GDP in 1993/94 (from 10.4% in 1992193), through
revenue-raising measures and restraint on non-wage expenditures, and is targetted at 2.1% of GDP
for 1994/95. Steps were taken to recover irregular Central Bank credits to certain conumercial
banks, with outstanding credits reduced by about half. The growth of the money supply
decelerated to 14% for the twelve months ending in June 1994. Inflation (measured year over year)
declined to 12% by October 1994, resulting in restoration of positive real interest rates. Over the
past six months, the consumer price index has actually declined.
6.     Economnic deregulation was achieved in several areas, with almost all exchange controls
removed, export taxes and export licenses abolished, and all remaining domestic price controls
(including on maize and petroleum products) removed. On the other hand, public enterprise
reform - amending the State Corporations Act, preparing restructuring plans and performance
contracts for strategic parastatals, and divestiture of non-strategic parastatals - has been
proceeding more slowly than expected.
7.     As part of the midterm review of the ESAF, the Government has submitted to the IMF a
memorandum on the economic and financial policies for 1994/95. These policies constitute a
sound macroeconomic framework. On the basis of the midtermn review, the 1MF Executive
Directors, while expressing disappointment with the slow progress on public enterprise reform,
approved release of the second and final tranche of the ESAF arrangement on November 21, 1994.
Irn. Progress in Carrying Out the Overall Sector Adjustment Program
8.     The objectives of the education sector adjustment program have been to: (a) reduce the rate
of growth of the education recurrent budget to a sustainable level, commensurate with the
Government's overall expenditure targets; (b) expand access to education and increase retention at
the primarv and sccondary levels; (c) enhance and improve the quality and relevance of education
at all levels; and (d) strengthen sector management. planning, budgeting, and information svstems.
The most important measures in the program have been in the university education and primarv
education subsectors. %%iEh secondarv education and sector management receiving relatively less
emphasis. Progress in thesc areas is discussed below.
I Memorandum to thc Board on Release of the EdSAC Second Tranche (December 1993). also. Policv
Frame%%ork Paper for 1994-96 (November 1993).



54
9.     University Education. During the 1980s, public universitv education expanded rapidly in
Kcnya, with the number of public university institutions increasing from one to six, and enrollment
incrcasing from 10,000 to 42,000. There were no significant direct charges to students at public
universities, and the share of the Ministry of Education budget devoted to the public universities
increased, reaching 20%. "Deferred cost recovery" took the form of disbursement of Student Loan
Scheme (SLS) funds, which in principle were expected eventually to be repaid, to studerts and to
universities on students' behalf for food and accommodation. However, the SLS interest rate was
onlv 2%, yielding substantially negative real interest rates, and loan recovery was so poor that the
Schemne was grant-like in practice. It was recognized that, with the growth in the number of public
universities, there was a need to strengthen the Comnmission for Higher Education (CHE) to enable
it to function as an effective interrnediary between the Governnent and the public universities.
10.   In response to these issues, the agreed adjustment program has included the, following
conditions relating to higher education: (a) caps on undergraduate admissions; (b) introduction in
1991 of a "direct charge" of KSh 6000; (c) a cap on the annual SLS disbursernent; (d) effective
performance by CHE; (e) preparation of a public university financing plan, acceptable to IDA; and
(f) improvement of loan recover' under the SLS. Among these conditions, (a) through (c) have
applied to all three tranches, while (d) through (f) are conditions for third tranche release. In
addition to EdSAC, IDA has also supported improvement of education at the public universities
through a parallel Universities Investment Project (UEP), which finances equipment and library
books, and institutional development.
1 1.   Conditions (a) through (c) have been observed throughout the EdSAC period. However,
as a result of the failure to adjust prices charged to students in the face Qf high inflation (the
consumer price index doubled during the EdSAC period), and reduction:im the real value of Central
Government recurrent allocations to the universities, university operating budgets went
substantially into deficit. Additionally, building projects were initiated with no assurance that
funds would be available to complete them. (As described in the PFP and ESAF documents, lack
of fiscal discipline has been a widespread problem in Kenya, found in other sectors as well.) By
March 1994, university arrears reached 68 million Kenya pounds, equivalent to about 7 months' of
the universities' Annual Estimates.
12.    During the past year, IDA has been emphasizing strengthening and reform of university
finances in its dialogue with the Government, and the Ministry of Education has also become
increasingly insistent that the public universities address their financial problems. Responsiveness
of the universities initially was uneven, but more recently all of the public universities have realized
that they must become less dependent on the Central Government budget, and must operate in a
more business-like manner. The Government has begun to explain to the public that a greater
share of the annual unit cost of educating a student at a public university (KSh I 10,000-120,000,
including food and accommodation) will need to be met by students and parents. Taking effect
Nith the next academic year, which approximately coincides with the Government's July 1995-June
1996 financial ycar. students * ill be charged full cost for food and accommodation. Additionally,
tuition fees kill bc increased substantially from the current level of KSh 6000. It has been
recog ized that thcrc xxll need to be an expansion of financial assistance to students. including
bursaries for poor srudcnts as well as loans. These decisions are reflected in the public university
financing plans submirtcd to IDA in November 1994. The Governnent has also decided that
financial assistuncc %%ill be extended to students at Kenya's private universities.



55
13    The Commission for Higher Education (CHrE) has begun to function as an effective
intermediary with respect to the public universities (para. 20 below). Additionally, legislation to
revise the acts relatingtio CHE and the public universities, with a view to eliminating
inconsistencies arnong them, will be presented to Parliament no later than June 1995. (Enactnent
of such legislation is not required as part of the EdSAC agreement, but is important for ensuring
that CHE will be able to exercise its intended functions effectively over the long term.)
14.    Significant efforts to strengthen SLS loan recovery got under way only in mid-1993, and
results thus far have been modest (paras. 22-25 below). If significant efforts had gotten under way
earlier, more might have been accomplished by this point in time. Although, in its Letter of
Education Sector Policy (LSP), the Government had indicated that it would change the SLS
interest rate from time to time in order to make the scheme more self-sustaining, the SLS interest
rate actually has remained fixed at only 2%, through 1994. The Government will increase the SLS
interest rate, and introduce means-testing, for the 1995/96 academic year.
15.    Primary Education. The objectives have been to expand access and improve quality,
within the Government's fiscal constraints. The agreed adjustment program includes measures to
control the size of the primary teaching force, and initiation of Government provision of textbooks  4
in core subjects in poor districts. The LSP mentions a target of allocating at least 3% of the
primary education recurrent budget to non-wage instructional items (previously considered to be
solely a parental responsibility) by the end of the Credit period, to be achieved by allowing the
student/teacher ratio to increase from 31:1 to 34:1. The Government also committed itself to
undertake a study on primary school dropouts, to be followed by preparation and implementation
of an iction plan to reduce dropout.
16.    The Government, by controlling entry into the Primary Teachers Training Colleges (after
some slippages in 1991), has controlled the size of the primary teaching force broadly as intended,
with the share of untrained teachers reduced from 30% in 1990 to 13% in 1994. The Government
initiated a primary textbook financing scheme for arid and semi-arid areas (para. 31 below), for
which it allocated 4 million Kenya pounds in 1993/94 and 6 million Kenya pounds in 1994/95.
However, in th: 1994/95 budget the share of the primary education recurrent budget devoted to
non-wage instructional items is only 0.9%, well below the 3;o target in the LSP. The pupiVteacher
ratio has remained approximately constant, instead of rising as intended. A study on the extent and
causes of non-enrollment and droput has been completed, although potential solutions are listed in
this research report, an action plan has not yet been prepared. Whereas the EdSAC objective was
to expand access to primary education, according to MoE data the Gross Earollment Ratio has
decreased froTh 89% in 1990 to 84% in 1994. Real per capita incomes have Mllen in Kenya over'
this period of time, and some parts of the country have been affected by drought.
17.    Secondary Education. The agreed adjustnent program has included limits on the
secondary teacher pavroll, which have been observed. Additionally, the Government initiated
bursaries for ncedv students in secondary schools; with I 5 million Kenya pounds provided for this
purpose in 1993i94
18.    Sector N1 ana-ement. As set out in the LSP, this would include strengthening CHE, and
improving information s%stems, policv analysis, and planning in the the Mlinistry of Education. As
descnbed elsew%herc in this Mlemorandum (para. 13 above and para. 20 below), there has been
good progrcss %%ith rcspc.t to CHE. UK ODA has assisted Planning Division %%lth computers, and
two additional economists have been recruited for the Division. A Nfanagement Inforrmation
Systems stud! for thc Nlinistry has been prepared. and is being reueviecd



56
IV. Actions Listed in Schedule 3(B)
Conditions Relating Specifically to Higher Education
19.    "Admissions to public universities for academic year 1993/94 have not exceeded
10,600 new undergraduates." The actual number is 8459. This condition is therefore fulfilled.
20.    "CHE is effectively overseeing the planning, programming, budgeting, and financing
of public universities, and is handling grants from the public sector to universities as well as
donor assistance." CHE has performed effectively in coordinating the preparation of the public
university financing plans. With effect from July 1, 1994, the Government appointed the Secretary
of CHE as Officer Accounting for grants allocated to the public uiniversities. At the same time, in
the 1994/95 Recurrent Estimates, the Government has shifted from the previous arrangement of an
itemized Government budget allocation for each of the public universities, to a lump-sum grant for
each of the public universities. Budget implementation under the new arrangements has worked
smoothly. This condition is therefore fulfilled.
21.    "A financing and investment plan for the public universities, acceptable to the
Association, has been prepared." A three-year financial plan (1994/95-1996/97) for each public
university, and a consolidated financial plan for the public university subsector as a whole, were
subnitted to IDA in November 1994. The plans provide for increased cost-sharing by bene-
ficiaries, promotion of income-generating units, rationalization of academic programs, and
retrenchment of excess staff. These measures are projected to result in balanced operating budgets
beginning in 1995/96, and retirement of indebtedness by the end of the three-year period. The
plans are therefore acceptable. In the context of the UTP, IDA will monitor the progress being
made by the public universities in implementing their financial plans.
22.    "(i) For academic year 1993/94 each new and returning student of public universities
has paid a minimum direct charge of KSh 6000, (ii) no more than 20% of students have
received financial support to assist in meeting this charge, and (iii) the student loan has been
capped at KSh 21,500 for each student." This condition is substantively fulfilled. At the
University of Nairobi, the collection performance on the direct charge is in the range of 85-90%.
Students who are in arrears on the direct charge are ineligible to receive diplomas. Future
reporting to IDA on university finances, in the context of UiP, will include reporting on the
collection performance on the direct charge. With regard to financial support to students, as has
previously been agreed uith IDA, slightly more than 20% of students receive bursaries, amounting
in value to na more than 20% of the total direct charges due, through granting of partial bursaries,
The student loan cap is being observed.
23.    "The Borrower has carried out an evaluation of the measures to improve the rate of
student loan recover and has submitted to the Association for review proposals for further
improving student loan recovery." A Report evaluating measures implemented to date, and
setting out furth4r ..rnn d measures, was submitted in November 1994, and this condition is
therefore mct. feiI.> rg are key points from the report. Since its inception. the SLS has
disbursed loans to acout 97,000 student debtors. In March 1994. the SLS Ulnit commenced
compuccnzacrn Ot L; nominal roll. i.e., dcbtors names and relatcd personal and academic
information. nc,.; :nuding about 9!.000 debtors. and a start has been made on computenzing
debtors accounts  Ledgcr books have been opened for 33.560 graduates %%ith mature loans who
ha.c been idcnzi:hcd or traced  Loans have been paid off in full by '32 debtors. Among Lhe
romaining group. 2'.001 arc ernploved in uh^ public sector. %%iLh 10.456 tn tC pn%ane sectcr



57
Repayment performance arnong public sector employees is: repaying on schedule, 2%1 in arrears
(partial default), 20%; pure default, 58%. Among private sector employees, comparable data are:
on schedule, 1.7%; partial default, 1.3%; pure default, 97%. Among the total portfolio, 15% are
repaying on schedule, with 14% in partial default, and 70% in pure default.2
24.    Repayments during 1993/94 were KSh 30 million, or about 4.4% of the total amount of
KSh 677 million due, including arrears. (Tere have been no write-offs of bad debts thus far.)
Collections in the first quarter of 1994/95 were KSh 11 nmillion, indicating a slight improvement in
the collection rate.
25.    According to the Evaluation Report, loan recovery has been relying on employers' goodwill
to implement payroll check-off. The Scheme has lacked rules conceniing deceased debtors,
university dropouts, unemployed debtors with no assets, self-employed debtors, and debtors
residing outside Kenya. Following a letter from the Head of the Public Service, 629 additional
debtors employed in the public sector have boee identified for billing.
26.    For the future, the following measures are planned: (a) completion of computerization of
debtors' accounts, and issuance of computer-generated bills; (b) issuance of a Personal
Identification Number to incoming students; (c) means-testing rather than automaticity in granting
of loans; (d) identification of graduates in publiec sector employment with the assistance of
computers and personnel departnents; (e) legislation to exterd check-off to the private sector.
Other Schedule 3(B) Conditidns
27.    "The Borrower has: (a) made provision for the education sector in its 1993/94 Budget
Estimates, including specific budgetary allocations for primary school textbooks, CHE,
institutional strengthening in the Ministry of Education, and the Universities Investment
Project, at levels acceptable to the Association; (b) furnished evidence that provisional actual
recurrent and development budget outcomes for 1992193, for the education sector, were at
levels satisfactory to the Association; and (c) updated its sector investment plan, satisfactory
to the Association." The 1993/94 Budget Estimates for the education sector were acceptable to
IDA. Provisional accounts for 1992/93 have boen provided, indicating that the 1992193 budget
estimates, previously found to be acceptable, were implemented broadly as planned. MoE has
provided a draft Public Investment Program for the education sector for 1995/96 - 1997/98, which
is satisfactory. This condition is therefore fulfiled.
28.    "New admissions to Primary Teacher Colleges in 1993 have not exceeded 8000 and
include at least 3000 experienced untrained teachers and no more than 5000 school leavers."
The intake consisted of 8000, of whom 7000 were experienced untrained teachers (UTs), and only
1000 were secondalr school leavers. This condition has been fulfilled.
In the Sermi-Annual Progress Report of August 1994, the Mlinisty of Education rcportcd that. of Lhc
total student debtors numbenng about 97,000. about 51.000 %%ere still in universiry or %%ere in thc grace
pcriod. and that about 46.000 debtors should be repaNing. The percentages reported in para 24 arc bascd
on thc 33.560 for hom ledgcr books have be-n opened. and thereforc understac thc rate of dcfault



58
29.    "The number of teachers on the TSC Primary payroll has not exceeded 175,000 of
which no more than 33,500 are untrained teschers." The ceiling of 175,000, which was also a
second tranche condition, has been slightly exceeded for most months during the past two years.
As was explained in the Memorandum to the Board on release of the second tranche, attrition has
been lower than projected at appraisal in formulating this ceiling. In addition, there were excess
Primary Teacher Training College (PTTC) admissions (and an inappropriate mix of secondary
school leavers and UTs) in 1991. The Ministry of Education has ensured that this problem did not
recur in the PTTC adrmissions for 1992, 1993, and 1994. The Memorandum to the Board on the
second tranche reported a primary teacher payroll of 175,470, and found the second tranche
condition to be "substantively met."
30.    For September 1994, the primary teacher payroll was 175,625. In October 1994, the
primary teacher payroll increased to 180,674, reflecting this year's PTTC graduates reporting for
duty, net of untrained teachers leaving the teaching payroll to ester PTTCs. The October payroll
included 25,576 untrained teachers. The performance in reducing the percentage of untrained
teachers has therefore gone beyond the expectations at appraisal. It was never foreseen that the
size of the teachers' payroll would remain frozen for a long period of time. Due to unforeseen
circunstances the EdSAC agreement has remained in effect longer than originally expected.
Taking all factors into account, compliance with the condition relating to the primary teacher's
payroll is substantively met.
31.    "The Borrower has carried out an evaluation of the primary school textbooks
rinancing scheme." An evaluation report was submitted to IDA in Novernber 1994, and this
condition has therefore been met. The report meets a majority of the requirrements set out in the
terms of reference which had been provided earlier, but falls short in some respects. The sample of
schools in the evaluation was very small, and does not appear to be very representive of the entire
population of schools. The methodology was limited given the short time frame for the evaluation,
The report did not recommend the most cost-effective form of future assistance from the GoK, one
of the items in the ToR. Within these limitations, the report revealed some problems and delays in
book distribution, and shortfalls in the desired textbook/student ratio. Where textbooks were
received and used, respondents reported that they had a positive impact on teaching/learning.
32.    "The number of teachers on the TSC secondary payroll has not exceeded 34,000 and
the non-teaching staff remains at no more than 4600." For July 1994, the number of secondary
teachers on the TSC payroll was 32,954. There were 4486 non-teaching staff on the payroll. This
condition is therefore fulfilled.
V. Conclusion
33.    The agrced adjustnent program has included important reforms in higher education. After
a lag, the agrced program in this area has been implemented. The introduction of cost recoverv,
introduction of unp. ersit% financial planning, and strengthening of the role of CHE are important
accomplishments SLS loan recoverv is an area where results have been modest thus far. IDA u%ill
continue to monicor improvements in the higher education subsector in the context of the ongoing
Ulniversities In srsum.nt Project.



59
34.   In prniary education, progress has been mnade by reducing by rnore than half (from 30% to
13%) the percentage of untrained teachers in the teaching force, and the availabilitv of textbooks in
schools in poor districts has increased. However, during this period of econorric hardship in
Kenya, the gross primary enrollment ratio has declined. At the secondary level, an important
initiative (not planned under EdSAC) to provide bursaries to needy students has becn introduced.
35.    EdSAC has facilitated a substantial diaJogue between the Govcrnment and IDA on
education policy issues, and considerable progress has been made in improving the policy
framework for the education sector. Discussions with the Government on a PHRD Grant, to be
funded by the Government of Japan, to prepare a new lending operation in the education sector, are
at an advanced stage. This operation, cntitled Student Financing, will support further improve-
ments in the policy framework for the educaiion sector.
36.    Thc Governnent of Kenya has met the specific conditions set out in Schedule 3(B) for
release of the third tranche. In addition, progress in inplanenting the overall program described in
the Lcrter of Education Sector Policy is satisf;&ctory, and a satisfactory macroeconomic framework
is in place. Consequently, the Governmnent of Kenya has becn advised of the availability of the
third and final tranche.
Lewis T. Preston
-S.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~*.



60
APPENDIX D FA5  2                      P
HUII-,O~   WORLD  B.ASK  (F.01FX24            1052P   0
MINISTRY OFLEDUCAflON
Tde.-mis 'EflUCATION". NMzoxi             .JOGO HOUSE
TdepUc: Naihobl 311 1I                                   I{.AMB2E AVENUE
V-ts,= mpo" pku- qWA.       P.O. Box 30040
adIl..  N1.0/66. .ArROBL
ad dam                .27th June      95
... 
t.r. J.M. Ramungc
E&.acation Consultant
Tne wcr.d Bank
Upper Hill
Dearr
COST-_qABTNG IMTA~PlCTQ M            KENIYA
r discussed the above mentionei subject with you recently and I
eubsequently considered it appropriate to confirm the  linistry's
position in writing.
As you well know, the GovernmOnt providea grants to the Teachers
Colleges to cover recurrent expenseo.  Personal emolumenta of the
tutors are excluded ea  they sre covered in the T.S.C payroll;
however the non-teaching ataff are paid from the grants.
The cost-sharing policy was effected in colleges when fees subsidy
was introduced in 1993.  A ma.xAum of Kshs.15,200/- is-payable by
each student for a two-year courae to subsidize. expenses in the
areas of teaching pra_...ce, boarding, teaching equipment, repair.
maintena.nce and imprcvem.ent, electricity, water and conservancy,
and loca; cransport and :raveliing.  Studenta also pay for ur.fcrm
and FNEC exanr.ation fees.
Government grants have not kep4 pace with the escalating recurrent
costs in recent yeuzH and consequently, the culi.ges have been
advised to initiate varicua income-generating activitias to
supplement the granzs.  These activities include farmlng venturea
where land is ave.'la-:e. charging house rent to staff. and hire of
college buses and halls, etc.'
In apite of these financial arrangementa, many of the collegea have
accumulated cebss. A.rTtr considerable consuitaricr.s, rhe soluti'on
ilhas been decermi.ed to be the lintroduction of direct fees payable
L te t hC    -'ia'-ie2)  whlcn would cover fullI ccst of
jsboar- ins aa fccd._      h nas been recor-mended to the Gcvernrment.



rS(TUE}E) I 5   WORLD BA.\ (F.Oj        61       FAX:2S4 272652              P.004
STUDENTS LOAN BREAKDOWN.
CURRENT            NEW
TUITION{                  5,0oo/-             8,00co0/
CATERING                 10, 760/-      *   18;,000/=
ACCOMMODATION             2,240/-             7,000/-
BOOK ALLOWANCE            3,5001-'            9,000/e n
TOTAL         21,500/-            42,000/-
-Z.,-r A.L 



MAP SECTION



IBRD 26150
SUDAN
KENYA
To Add,. Ablb4
RIFT\                                                                                                              /// 
VALLY \EASTERN
<                   VALLE                                                                                           NORT H
z                                                                                                                                      I   N 
<
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EASTERN                            >
o KN2KA ~~KAAMEOA\                                                           
KISU                                             EMS
To Tairca                                                                                              gEA>.  
V? ',                                                                                      .uVA   EY    C    A S T
O        MAJOR TOWNS
i)       NATIONAL CAPITAL               ToAru..h\
MAIN ROADS                                                                                               LI n/A, aNDI
4        NATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                         ol
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                   T. A                                                                   U       ETN
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                      LoEA s                                   /
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                      M MaA   A           v-
|  |   __   |                 8                      t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WANDA   
The boundarles, colors, denominations ond any other informotion                                  T.                                   TANZANIA
sho-n on this mop do not imply, on the port of The World Bank                                Iar E. Sola-
Group, soy udgmest on the legal 5tatus of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptonce of such boundories                                                                                                     A       1A99
AUGUST 1994



L M A (GT I N & T
Report No:            150 5 O
Trype: ICR



