Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2295 KE
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 10, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2295 KE
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 10, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Education Sector Adjustment Credit), dated September 13, 1991, (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
(B)
the Borrower and the Association have entered into an agreement dated 
March 1, 1993, (the First Amending Agreement) amending the Development Credit 
Agreement for the purpose of providing the Borrower with additional assistance in the 
financing of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty million three hundred and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 30,330,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agree-ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
deletion of the word "and" at the end of Subsection (d), its replacement after 
Subsection (e), and the addition of the following:
"(f) "First Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Education Sector Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association dated March 1, 1993."
"(g) "Second Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (Education Sector Adjustment Credit) between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated March 10, 1994."
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and 
forty-three million eight hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 143,850,000) (the Credit), which includes an original amount in various 
currencies equivalent to seventy-five million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 75,900,000) and an additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty-seven million six hundred and twenty thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 37,620,000) (the First Additional Financing), and a 
further additional amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million 
three hundred and thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,330,000) (the 
Second 
Additional Financing)."
Section 1.03. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the 
deletion therefrom of the date "June 30, 1994" and the substitution therefor of the 
date "March 10, 1995".
Section 1.04. A proviso is added at the end of Sec-tion 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the First Additional 
Financing shall accrue from April 29, 1993 and that any commitment charge on 
the Second Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the 
date 
of the Second Amending Agreement."
Section 1.05. Sub-paragraph 2 (g) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by the deletion therefrom of the amount "SDR 15,200,000" and the 
substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 28,770,000."
Section 1.06. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6.  After a date twelve months from the date of the Second Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered 
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional Financing 
from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the 
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
Page  3
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on 
behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a 
date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, this Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Agreement shall 
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Richard M.O. Okwaro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Acting Regional Vice-President
Africa
