Report No. 1459a-SU                                                                    FILE  COPY
Sudan                                                                                                 CP
Fourth Railway Project
June 6, 1977
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =      Sudanese Pounds (BS)
US$1                     B zS 0.400
iS 1               =     US$2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =             0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)      =             0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                             2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)            =             2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 feddan                                    1.038 acres (ac)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
SRC      -    Sudan Railways Corporation
SPC      -    Sea Ports Corporation
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
ILO      -    International Labour Organisation
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Programme
RTC      -    River Transport Corporation
CAD      -    Civil Aviation Department
RBPC     -    Roads and Bridges Corporation
SMTCR    --   Southern Region Ministry of Transport and Communications
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR -
July 1 - June 30
1/ Years given in this report refer to the 12 months ending June 30
in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
FOURTH BAILWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........................   i-iii
1.    INTRODUCTION ......................................               1
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..............................                2
A.    Effects of Geography and Economic Structure on
Transport ..................................    2
B.   The Transport Network ........................    3
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination                 4
3.   SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION ........................                5
A.    Infrastructure ...............................              5
B.    Fleet and Fleet Maintenance ....            ..............  6
C.    Operations ...................................              6
D.   Organization, Management and Staff ....            .......    7
E.   Training ......................................    8
F.   Planning .....................................    8
G.   Budget and Accounts; ...............  ...........    9
4.   TRAFFIC AND FINANCES ..............................    9
A.    Introduction .................................    9
B.   Past and Present Traffic .....................   10
C.   Financial Performance ........................   10
D.    Future Traffic ...............................   11
This report has been preparecl by Messrs. M.S. Parthasarathi (Economist),
B. Rollins and 0. Fraisse (Fiinancial Analysts), R. Masthagen (Engineer)
and J. Kesson (Consultant-Engineer), with the assistance of Ms. M. Garcia-
Zamor (Editor).
rThb 4oumont ha a mtrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfon me
of tho dib  dutb Iu contenu may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dnk awhthsl on.



TAJ1Th  OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
5.   THE PROJECT ..................,........              12
A.  Objectives and Scope .12
B. Background .13
C. Details of Project .14
D. Cost Estimates .16
E.   Financing and Procurement .16
F. Disbursements .17
G. Execution .18
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION .18
A.   Projected Operating Statements .18
B.   Projected Balance Sheets .19
C. Projected Cash Flow .19
D.   Future Financial Objective .20
E.   Financial Internal Rate of Return on
Project .21
7. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .21
A. Economic Setting .21
B. Track Works .22
C. Workshops .23
D. Rolling Stock .23
E. Other Items .23
F. Economic Return .24
G.   Sensitivity and Risk Analyses .24
8. RECONMENDATIONS .24
ANNEXES
1.   Project Performance Audit of Second Railway Project
2.   Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects in Sudan
3-A Roads and Road Transport
3-B River Services
3-C Ports and Shipping
3-D Civil Aviation
4.   Sudan Railways Corporation:  Property and Operations
5.   Maintenance Workshops
6.   Note on Operational Objectives
7.   SRC Freight Traffic Forecasts - Explanatory Note
8.   Notes on Proposed Project:  1978-1980
9.   Locomotive and Freight Wagon Requirements to 1983
10.   Social-Technical Study of Workshop Organization - Outline Terms of
Reference
11.   Project Implementation Schedule
12.   Financial Assumptions



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Public Sector Investment in Transport Sector
2-A  Fleet of Locomotives and Railcars
2-B  Fleet of Wagons and Coaches
3.   Summary of Operating Statistics
4.   Performance, Port Sudan/Atbara, 1974-1976
5.   Accident Data: 1971-1975
6.   Operational Objectives
7.   Staff Size Compared to Rcoute Length and Traffic Carried
8.   Comparative Statements of Profit and Loss - Railway Operations
9.   Comparative Balance Sheets
10.   Cash Flow for the Year Ended June 30, 1976
11.   SRC Freight Traffic Forecast to 1983
12.   SRC Passenger Traffic Forecast to 1983
13.   Estimated Cost of Project:
14.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15.   Projected Statement of Profit and Loss
16.   Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
17.   Projected Balance Sheet
18.   Statements of Retained Earnings and Capital Reserve
19-A  Projected Cash Flow
19-B  Debt Service Deflated to 1977 Monetary Unit
19-C  Revised Cash Flow Giving Effect to Deflated Debt Service
20.   Projected Operating Statements without Project
21.   Projected Operating Statements with Project Investments Only
22.   Financial Internal Rate of Return
23-A to
23-E Cost-Benefit Analysis
24.   Summary of Economic Return Analysis
CHARTS
1.    Sudan Railways Corporation - Traffic Density Chart, 1976
2.    SRC's Forecast of Traffic Density in 1983
3-A   Sudan Railways Corporation Organization Chart - General
3-B   Sudan Railways Corporation Organization Chart - Regions
4.    Sudan Railways Corporation Diagram of Rail Weights
MAP
1.    Sudan - Main Transportat:ion Infrastructure (IBRD 12615)






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Sudan is on the threshold of a major breakthrough in its economic
development due to a combination of favorable natural resources endowments
that make it a potential source of food supply to the rest of the world
increasingly affected by food shortages, as well as geographical and cultural
factors, which make it an attractive place for some of the surplus funds of
its oil-rich neighbors. The pattern of development visualized will continue
the past emphasis on agriculture but focus on broadening the base to a greater
number of agricultural and agro-based industrial commodities, whose production
will principally be for export and to some extent for the replacement of
hitherto imported consumer goods.
ii.       The principal areas of increasing agricultural production are ex-
pected to be those immediately to the southeast and southwest of Khartoum,
the country's capital. From these areas rail freight transport to Port Sudan
for export is estimated to increase from under 1.0 million tons in 1976 to
close to 2.5 million tons by 1983. During this period, internal commodity
movements are also expected to grow from the present 0.5 million tons to over
1.5 million tons, while movement of imports, excluding petroleum products,
will grow much more slowly - irom around 1.0 million tons to about 1.3 mil-
lion tons. Thus, overall rail traffic is expected to increase from about 2.7
million tons in 1976 to 5.3 m:Lllion tons by 1983.
-iii.     In view of the long distances and the nature of the commodities
involved - sugar, wheat, maize and millet, oilseeds and cotton, all ideal
for bulk movement - the railway would be the preferred mode on cost grounds
alone. With only 780 km of paved roads in the whole country and very poor or
no roads in most regions, the railway offers the only viable means of trans-
port, and therefore has a near-monopoly on long-distance freight transport,
a situation likely to continue for the foreseeable future for dry cargo. It
is, therefore, vitally important and urgent to enable the Sudan Railways
Corporation not only to carry the growing volumes of traffic, but also to
carry it at the lowest possible cost.
iv.       The first two projects (approved by the Bank in 1958 and 1965)
financed the modernization and extension of rail, river and port facilities
and assisted in the gradual dieselization of the locomotive fleet. But, as
they did not provide simultaneously for modern diesel workshop facilities and
as the design of the locomotives did not fully take account of the harsh
climatic conditions in Sudan, SRC's efficiency suffered and traffic carried
declined from 1971 to 1975. The Third Project, approved in 1973, is financing
further investments to improve SRC's capacity, and simultaneously UNDP finan-
ced technical assistance by a team from the Australian National Railways
during 1973-74 to help improve efficiency. Several of the team's recommenda-
tions have been implemented, although by themselves they have not had any
substantial impact on operations.
v.        Given the importance of the railway, the fact that its operational
efficiency is low and its capacity limited has so far had an especially
negative impact on the economy. The proposed fourth railway project will
seek to remedy this situation in several ways:



- ii -
(a) First, it will help to improve SRC's efficiency through
-he provision of better and additional workshop facilities,
improvement of track, completion of the communications
network, and establishment of a centralized modern training
school for railway staff.
(b)  Secondly, it will help SRC acquire rolling stock - loco-
motives and wagons - to carry the additional traffic fore-
cast at gradually improving levels of operating efficiency.
(c) Simultaneously, a different form of work organization,
which aims at improving the workers' motivation and com-
mitment to work, will be designed and implemented as part
of the project in a new locomotive workshop, also to be
set up under the project.
If successful, this last item will have great potential for SRC and Sudan as
a whole in raising the levels of worker efficiency, with possible application
to a wide range of economic activities.
vi.       The proposed project comprises SRC's investment requirements during
the first three years (1978 - 1980) of the Government's Six-Year Devel-
opment Plan. It includes the establishment of new diesel locomotive and wagon
workshops, sleeper renewal over 500 km of track, rail renewal over 344 km,
completion of the rail communications network, purchase of 10 replacement
diesel locomotives and 400 wagons, completion of the Atbara railway training
school, and technical assistance in workshop design and organization. It is
designed to enable SRC to carry the anticipated traffic up to about 1981.
vii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at ES 56.62 million
(US$141.6 million equivalent), of which ES 28.82 million (US$72.1 million)
is the estimated foreign exchange component, LnS 15.42 million (US$38.6
million) direct local costs and ES 12.38 million (US$30.9 million) local
taxes (LS 8.06 million customs duties and ES 4.32 million exchange tax).
Of this, the Bank Group will finance US$20.0 million (US$8.0 million
IDA Credit and US$12.0 million Third Window Loan), FED about US$6.6 million
as grant, and the Kuwait Fund US$17.4 million, the Arab Fund US$17.4 million and
the Abu Dhabi Fund US$10.0 million in loans; the Government has agreed to meet
a small balance of US$0.7 million in the foreign exchange cost. SRC will meet
the direct local costs and the exchange tax, and the Government will help meet
the customs duties by deferring their payment.
viii.     The Bank Group financing will be made available to the Government
of Sudan which will in turn make the funds available to SRC at an annual
interest of 8.0% for a term of 20 years. With only a few exceptions,
contracts to be financed under the Credit/Loan will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans/IDA Credits". The Credit/
Loan will finance workshop, training school and telecommunications
equipment and technical assistance for the workshops and the training
school.



- iii -
ix.       Without the project, not only will SRC's freight carrying
capacity be grossly inadequate in relation to anticipated demands, but
SRC's operating costs will continue to rise both in real terms and due
to inflationary factors. The internal financial return on the project
investments is 25%, while the economic return is 27% for the project as
a whole, with the various components showing returns ranging from 15% to
65%.
x.        The financial projections show that SRC's finances as reflected
in its cash flow situation will show steady improvement starting in 1978
due to implementation of the project. On the basis of forecast traffic
and present tariffs, its operations will generate sufficient funds to
cover the local project costs, excluding customs duties, service its
long-term debts, and finance the local component of further capital
investments beyond 1980.
xi.       SRC's senior managers are technically well-trained and reasonably
competent. The organization suffers from excessive concentration of power
at the top and a consequent failure to develop good middle managers,
deficiencies it is at present trying to rectify through decentralization
of operational management and management training.
xii.      The project provides a suitable basis for the proposed Bank Group
financing comprising an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million and a Third Window Loan
of US$12.0 million. The IDA Credit will be on standard IDA terms and the
Third Window Loan will be at 4.2%, with the first repayment due January 15,
1983 and a final maturity datet of January 15, 2001.






SUDAN
FOURTII RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In September 1976 the Government of Sudan requested Bank Group
assistance in financing a project to improve the Sudan Railways Corporation's
(SRC) operational efficiency and productivity to enable the railway to meet
present and forecast traffic demands more efficiently and adequately.
1.02      The project appraised in this report comprises SRC's investment
requirements for the first three years of the Government's Six-Year Develop-
ment Plan (1978-83), and is directed to raising SRC's efficiency through
modern workshop facilities for diesel maintenance, improved track through rail
and sleeper renewal that can no longer be delayed, and completion of the
railway telecommunications and training school facilities.
1.03      Total project cost is estimated at US$141.6 million, including
taxes and duties, with a foreigni component of US$72.1 million, about 51%
of project costs. The Bank Group will finance US$20.0 million of foreign
costs (US$8.0 million IDA Credit and US$12.0 million Third Window Loan)
and the European Development Fund, US$6.6 million. The Kuwait Fund, the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Abu Dhabi Fund are
expected to provide about US$44.8 million, and the Sudan Government the
balance of about US$0.7 million. For local costs, SRC will contribute US$49.4
million, and the Sudanese Government a further US$20.1 million in deferred
customs duties.
1.04      The proposed project will be the Bank Group's fourth railway lending
operation in Sudan. The 1958 First Railway Project (Loan 202-SU, US$34.0
million) assisted the Government in a program to modernize and extend rail,
river and port facilities: this project was completed in 1964. A Second
Railway Project (Loan 440-SU, US$31.0 million), approved in 1965 to finance
further rail, river and port investments, was also satisfactorily completed in
1972, although some three years later than originally scheduled, mainly due to
(i) closure of the Suez Canal in 1967, which delayed deliveries, (ii) changes
in the loan items to suit changes in traffic patterns, (iii) procurement
problems, and (iv) political circumstances in the country. A Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report on the Second Project, issued in 1974, commented on the
implementation delays and on the shortfalls in traffic, operating efficiency,
financial position and economic benefits. Its findings are reviewed in detail
in Annex 1. (See also para. 3.06.)
1.05      In 1973, the Third Railway Project (Credit 457-SU, US$24.0 million)
included investments and technical assistance for rail, river and port develop-
ment and airport pre-investment studies. In general, physical implementation
of this project has been qualitatively satisfactory, although there have been
considerable procurement delays attributable to (i) the Railways' use of
complicated Government procurement, evaluation and approval procedures; (ii)
cost increases in the last few years, which have required revision of the list
of goods; and (iii) insufficient response to some invitations to bid. About



- 2 -
US$13.4 million had been disbursed as of May 31, 1977, and most of the
balance airea1y committed. On other matters, SRC has set up a regional
management system and revised tariffs periodically to reflect cost increases.
However, it has not met either the operating targets or the financial targets,
as its traffic-carrying capacity was severely constrained by mechanical
problems. In order to improve its traffic performance, SRC purchased 50 main
line locomotives (as against 10 provided in the project) although the Associa-
tion advised that priority should be given to existing fleet maintenance and
utilization. In the event, this action has enabled it, in the short term, to
carry more traffic than would otherwise have been possible, an expensive
alternative to lasting operational improvements.
1.06      The Bank was instrumental in arranging operational technical
assistance to SRC by a team from the Australian National Railways during
mid-1973/end-1974 with UNDP financing; it also acted as the executing agency.
1.07      There have been two other Bank Group-financed transport opera-
tions in Sudan. The First Highway Project (Credit 331-SU, US$7.0 million),
approved in 1971, included assistance with transport sector planning; the
Domestic Aviation Project approved in 1976 (Loan 1287T-SU and Credit 643-SU
for US$20.0 million and US$9.0 million, respectively) will help finance the
development and/or upgrading of four domestic airports. Details on Bank
Group-financed projects in the sector are given in Annex 2. A Technical
Assistance Credit, also approved in 1976 (Credit 614-SU for US$4.0 million),
will provide aid in preinvestment work in all sectors, including transporta-
tion.
1.08      This report is based on information from the Government, SRC
and the 1976 Bank Group-financed study of SRC, and on the findings of an
appraisal mission which visited Sudan in October-November 1976, consist-
ing of Messrs. Parthasarathi (Economist), Rollins and Fraisse (Financial
Analysts), Masthagen (Engineer) and Kesson (Consultant-Engineer).
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Effects of Geography and Economic Structure on Transport
2.01      Sudan, the largest country on the African continent, is essentially
an enormous plain, with a large uninhabited desert in the northern third
of the country and tropical forests and savannas in the south. It is traversed
from north to south by the Nile River system (see Mtap), close to which lives
a large part of the country's 16.3 million population, which is growing at a
rate of 2% p.a. Per capita GNP is US$290.
2.02      Agriculture dominates the economy, accounting for over 40% of
GDP and almost all export earnings. Economic activity is largely concentrated
within the fertile and well-irrigated 400 km stretch south and east of Khar-
toum. More than half the population depends for its livelihood directly on
agriculture, and a substantial amount of farm production is exported through



- 3 -
Port Sudan, the only deep-water port. The lack of all-weather connections
between areas of production and consumption (mainly Khartoum), and the
point of export and import (Port Sudan), is a major obstacle to achieving
the full development potential in this sector.
2.03      Provision of inexpensive, efficient and reliable surface transport
is particularly difficult in view of Sudan's harsh climate and the long
distances involved. The Nile contributes very little relative to its apparent
potential: in the north it is repeatedly interrupted by unnavigable rapids,
while in the south the White Nile disappears into the Sudd, a vast swamp with
continually shifting channels. The sparse rail and road systems, which must
cross hot, arid deserts in the north, northeast and central zones and skirt
the Sudd in the south, are oriented for exports through Port Sudan. Since
there are heavy physical and financial constraints on the development of road
transport, the railway plays a central role in the Sudanese transport system,
as reflected in SRC's near-monopoly over inland transport, especially on the
important Port Sudan-Khartoum route connecting the country's only deep-water
port with the capital and the rest of the country. Given the importance of
the railway, its low efficiency hinders the country's economic development
considerably. Thus, substantial improvement of the railway's operational
efficiency is the major objective of the proposed project.
B. The Transport Network
2.04      The railway is the primary mode, with road and river transport
serving as feeders to it (see Map). Comprising about 4,800 km of 1.067 m
gauge, single line track, the railway network emanates from Port Sudan and
extends west to Nyala and south to Wau. Of the 19,000 km of roads, only about
700 km are paved, mostly near Khartoum; the 6,000 km of gravel roads are
mostly located in the three southern provinces where laterite material is
available. Much of the road network, particularly in the more populated and
developed areas, passes over heavy clay soils which are generally impassable
during the rainy season (June-September). River services operate on two
sections of the Nile River System, Kosti-Malakal-Juba (1,400 km) in the south
and Karima-Dongala (290 km) in the north. Port Sudan, on the Red Sea, is
Sudan's only deep-water seaport. Twenty airports and airstrips in Sudan are
served by scheduled flights; the facilities range from the all-weather,
24-hour international jet airport at Khartoum to an unimproved field at
Dinder.
2.05      Important analyses of the investment needs of the sector have
recently been carried out by the Associates for the Development of Arab
Resources (ADAR) with Kuwait Fund financing and by the ILO Comprehensive
Employment Survey Mission. In the last three years the Government has under-
taken a very large investment program in this sector as the spearhead of its
national development efforts. This includes the construction of several
roads, most notably the pavedl road connecting Khartoum to Port Sudan via Wad
Medani, Gedaref, Kassala and Haiya, expected to be completed in 1978, the Wad
Medani-Sennar-Kosti road and the Sennar-Roseires road. The Port Sudan-Khartoum
white oil products pipeline built with Kuwait financing is expected to go into



- 4 -
operation sometime this year, and, when it does, white oil traffic to Khartoum
and southern and western Sudan (amounting to some 400,000 tons in 1978 and
rising gradually) will go by pipeline instead of by rail up to Khartoum. The
Government is also engaged in augmenting river transport capacity, the only
reliable means of freight transport to and from the south, and the internal
air transport system principally through better ground and navigation facili-
ties. It is also planning to expand port facilities to handle the anticipated
growth in foreign trade to avoid Port Sudan from developing into a bottleneck.
2.06      Details regarding roads, river transport, ports, and aviation
are given in Annexes 3-A to 3-D, and Chapter 3 contains a discussion of
the railway.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
Policy
2.07      A draft chapter of the Government's forthcoming Six-Year Develop-
ment Plan, "National Objectives and Long Term Perspective", indicates that
economic growth in the near future is expected to come principally from the
agricultural sector, with increasing volumes of agricultural products ex-
ported abroad to pay for rising imports of consumer and capital goods. This
will require more reliable transport facilities with increased capacity in
corridors already served by transport facilities. Further, the Government's
stated objective of integrating hitherto isolated areas into the mainstream
of the country's economic life will entail development of reliable transport
facilities between these areas and the rest of the country. In recognition
of the magnitude of these undertakings, the draft plan provides about -S 660
million or an annual average of over lS 100 million for transport and communi-
cations sector investments over 1978-83, representing 25% of the total proposed
development budget of -S 2.6 billion. By way of comparison, this sector
accounted for less than ES 10.0 million a year in investments until 1974, when
the Government, realizing the crucial role of transport in economic development,
increased investments in the sector to almost bS 50 million a year in 1975-1977
(see Table 1).
2.08      In addition to the substantial investments required to achieve
the two-fold objective of meeting transport demands and economic integration,
the operational problems which prevent some of the modes, mainly the railway
and river services, from providing reliable, efficient services must be over-
come through well-conceived, concentrated and sustained long-term efforts.
Substantial improvements, it must be recognized, will not be achieved easily
or quickly. The same is true of the lack of qualified professional staff,
adequately trained and supervised subprofessional staff and poor maintenance,
shortcomings shared by most of the transport organizations.



-5-
Planning
2.09      Sudan's 1971-75 Development Plan was not formulated on the basis
of economic priorities but consisted largely of a list of proposals by the
various Ministries to meet specific, known requirements. Since the drafting
of the Plan in 1970, the planning system has been considerably improved with
the assistance of a planning team, financed by the UNDP, in the Ministry of
Finance, Planning and National Economy, which is responsible for intersectoral
planning, and through the training efforts of EDI which has conducted a number
of courses in Khartoum tailored to Sudan's needs. This Ministry also has a
well-staffed Transport Section, responsible for ensuring that transport
projects are compatible with other sectors and responsive to their needs.
Nevertheless, inter and intra modal planning still need improvement. The
1978-83 Development Plan is expected to be approved by the
Government shortly. However, paucity of data, principally on past truck
transport, is a major gap in the overall transport picture.
2.10      The Ministry of Transport and Communications is responsible for
inter-modal planning. After almost two years' search, the Government has
recently recruited an adviser for the planning unit, also with UNDP financing.
There are also planning units of varying experience and depth in the modal
departments and the corporations, which suffer from shortages of qualified
staff to varying degrees.
Coordination
2.11      Until recently, modal coordination had not been an issue because
most transport services had been complementary. This will not be the case
much longer since the Government is presently following a policy which will
encourage rail/road competition. For instance, some roads which will offer
an alternative to the railway are either being constructed (Khartoum-Port
Sudan) or are being planned (Sennar-Roseires), and truck imports are being
subsidized. Thus, coordination of transport planning, investments and oper-
ations is assuming importance and will require more careful consideration in
the future, although the railway will continue to be the principal mode for
long-distance freight movement for the foreseeable future.
3. SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
A. Infrastructure
3.01      SRC's main traffic route is between Port Sudan, Atbara and Khartoum
(787 km) (Chart 1), but the alternative eastern route - Port Sudan, Haiya,
Kassala, Sennar, Khartoum - will become increasingly important in the future
for the transport of agricultural production from the south and west (Chart 2).
There are branch lines, in the north to Karima and Wadi Halfa, and in the
south to Damazin, Babanousa, Wau and Nyala. The rails, sleepers and sand or
soil ballast (details in Annex 4) have been adequate for the levels of traffic



so far carried, but the rapidly increasing tonnages now forecast (para. 4.10)
have made a re-assessment necessary. SRC has proposed a six-year program of
track improvement to increase the traffic-carrying capacity on the lines
affected. The first three-year phase of the work is included in the proposed
project. Track maintenance, especially on the main Port Sudan-Atbara-Khartoum
route, has been adequate, but much of the remainder of the network is quite old
and needs sleeper and/or rail renewal.
B.  Fleet and Fleet Maintenance
3.02      The main line locomotive fleet comprises 152 diesel locomotives
and 56 steam engines (Table 2-A). However, SRC has not yet adapted the rela-
tively simple maintenance procedures of steam locomotives to maintaining its
diesel fleet, resulting in poor locomotive availability. Average availability
has improved as a result of the 50 new better designed diesel units added in
1976, but it remains poor with the older locomotives, due partly to technical
problems and partly to unsatisfactory maintenance (Annex 5), compounded by
lack of timely and adequate foreign exchange allotments to SRC for spare parts
procurement, causing shortages of essential items. If maintenance procedures
are not improved, average locomotive availability is likely to decline again.
Proposals for a new diesel workshop and for setting up improved maintenance
methods form part of the proposed project.
3.03      SRC's rolling stock includes some 5,500 wagons and 500 passenger
coaches (Table 2-B). Some 300 freight wagons purchased under Credit 457-SU
and 140 passenger coaches financed by a Hungarian credit are in the process
of being put into service. General wagon and coach maintenance standards
need improvement and new workshops are proposed for the future in Port Sudan
for wagons and in Khartoum for coaches.
3.04      The whole maintenance and workshop organization for locomotives
and rolling stock was reviewed during 1976 by a Bank Group consultant
and the proposals now made by SRC follow in general his recommendations.
The Government has also taken steps to help SRC deal with the spare parts
problem. Since July 1976, the Government has directed the Bank of Sudan
to provide SRC LS 200,000 of foreign exchange every month for the current
fiscal year. This or a similar arrangement should be continued for the
future, and an understanding to that effect was reached with the Government
during loan negotiations.
C. Operations
3.05      A summary of operating statistics for the past five years is given
in Table 3.    From 1971 to 1975, SRC failed to meet the freight traffic
demand, resulting in accumulation of imports at Port Sudan and probably loss
of exports from the interior. The position improved in 1976 with the intro-
duction of the new locomotives; on the Port Sudan-Atbara section imports



- 7 -
carried increased by 20% (TabLe 4), with the time lost from locomotive line
failures decreasing considerably. Accidents and other causes of delay have,
liowever, continued at a high 'Level (Table 5) and average train transit times
are still well above those in the time-table.
3.06      Overall, the operational targets set under Credit 457-SU were
overoptimistic, did not allow sufficient time to introduce the basic changes
needed in the maintenance procedures and have therefore not been reached.
While some progress has been made recently, they are not likely to be fully
achieved for some time yet. Following a detailed review with SRC, targets for
1983, assuming gradual improvement over the intervening years, have been
agreed and are set out in Table 6. These provide the basis for assessing
SRC's investment requirements to carry the expected traffic discussed in
Chapter 4, Section D, and were confirmed during negotiations. (See also
para. 5.04 and Annex 6.)
D. Organization, Management and Staff
3.07      The SRC, incorporated in 1967, is run by a General Manager, based at
Atbara, who normally reports to the Minister of Transport and Communications
through a full-time Chairman in Khartoum. (At present the General Manager
also holds the post of Chairman). In addition to the Chairman, the Railways'
Board of Directors includes representatives from the Government (3), the labor
union (2), and railway users (4) (Chart 3-A). Senior managers are technically
well trained and reasonably competent, but SRC suffers from past failure to
develop good middle managers, which it is now trying to overcome (para. 3.09)
3.08      The operational management was regionalized in early 1976.  The
principal operational responsibilities are now vested in five regional managers
with headquarters at Atbara (for the Northern region), Port Sudan (Eastern),
Khartoum (Central), Sennar (Southern) and Babanousa (Western) (Chart 3-B).
The regional set-up is intended to solve the perennial problems of the Railways'
excessive centralization and overextended managerial lines, which had led to
inefficiencies, lack of effective control, and lack of response to users'
needs. It will take up to five years for the reorganization to have its full
impact in the various regions. The Bank will monitor the situation closely.
3.09      Management quality should also benefit from the on-going managerial
training program, which SRC bhas recently started with the assistance of the
Industrial Society of the United Kingdom. The Society has trained four
selected SRC staff members as trainers who, in turn, will train others. This
training will hopefully make all levels of SRC management aware of the need
to alter some of their traditional ways. Among traditional practices which
deserve close attention are: the existence within SRC of three different
hierarchies, frequently working at cross-purposes (the formal management, the
union, and the party); lack of effective supervision at most levels, possibly
due to excessive centralization at a very high level of career-oriented
decisions (promotions, salary increases, terminations and other sanctions)
which deprive most middle managers of power and means to influence their
staff; ill-defined duties and responsibilities for most positions; and,



- 8 -
finally, lack of adequate planning and scheduling of tasks, so that tasks are
sometimes started even though all required inputs are not available and are
not planned to be available when needed.
3.10      The project will also attempt to improve staff motivation, commit-
ment to work and feeling of responsibility, which have generally been low
among SRC staff. A different form of work organization, relying on autonomous
work groups, will be tried out in the proposed maintenance workshop at
Sennar, and, if successful, will later be extended to other parts of the
Railways.
3.11      SRC has a labor force of 30,000, rather large in comparison with
some other railways in terms of traffic per employee (Table 7). However,
the labor union is strong, and staff reduction can come about only through
retirements and resignations, a slow process particularly since the retirement
age was raised from 55 to 60 in 1976. However, SRC has a policy of limiting
new recruitment in any one year to an additional wage bill of not more than
ES 100,000 per year.
E. Training
3.12      The Railways' need for trained technical staff is not being met
adequately, although some facilities exist for training new recruits and lower
grade staff. Technical school graduates are given practical training in
workshops; engineering graduates receive one or two years of additional
training abroad. The Third Railway Project recognized the need for better
training facilities and provided US$1.0 million for assistance in planning and
starting construction of a Central Training School at Atbara. Blueprints for
the school have recently been prepared and it is estimated that US$4.0 million
in foreign exchange is needed to construct and fully equip the School,
including advisory services for curriculum preparation, initial training of
instructors, etc. The Bank Group has advised SRC to begin immediately with
the mechanical and workshop sections because these are urgently required and
can be financed from the Third Project. The Government and SRC intend to
explore bilateral sources for training advisors and instructors. Additional
Bank Group assistance in setting up this facility is included under the
project.
F. Planning
3.13      SRC planning is done by its Research and Statistics Section,
headed by a Chief Research Officer, who reports to one of the Deputy Gen-
eral Managers. Planning is centered on strategies to develop the capacity
to carry forecast traffic and has been reasonably efficient in anticipating
demand for transportation services. However, in the past forecast traffic
has generally exceeded the actual, one reason being SRC's inadequate trans-
port capacity arising partly from its low operational efficiency.



- 9 -
G. Budget and Accounts
3.14      The SRC Board is empowered to approve the Corporation's annual
capital and revenue budgets. Revised estimates are submitted for Board
approval as soon as possible afiter six months of the financial year have
elapsed. Annual accounts, which follow an acceptable commercial format,
are sent to the Minister of Transport and Communications together with an
auditor's report and a general report on SRC's activities for the year;
these are furnished to the national legislature.
3.15      Under the Auditor General Chambers Act, 1970, SRC's accounts are
audited by the Auditor General who is responsible to the President in Council.
This Act, which extended the Auditor General's responsibilities to all public
bodies and corporations, greatly increased his workload, and completion of
some audits, including those of SRC, had in the past been considerably delayed.
To alleviate the situation, additional staff were recruited, and some senior
officers took part in a training program arranged with the Egyptian Government.
Further training of personnel from the Auditor General's staff in the USA and
the UK was financed under Credit 457-SU and has been completed. The audit
situation is now satisfactory.
3.16      Like most railways, SRC is self-insured and claims, which have been
negligible, are met out of revenue.
3.17      SRC maintains a system of costing by classes of commodities and the
tariff structure is based on cost with the exception of upper-class passenger
fares and the tariffs on petroleum products. Costs are regularly updated to
serve as a basis for tariff revision.
4.  TRAFFIC AND FINANCES
A. Introduction
4.01      The principal role of the Railways in the past has been to help
move the country's agricultural products to Port Sudan for export and to
transport from Port Sudan to Khartoum and the rest of the country imports
of consumer goods, foodstuffs and fuel.  Exports mainly consisted of cotton,
groundnut, sesame, gum arabic and some of their byproducts, while imports
included petroleum products, foodgrains, sugar and other consumer goods.
SRC's role in the movement of traffic from one part of Sudan to another has
so far been relatively minor, although crucial to the national economy. This
pattern of traffic largely determined its operational orientation.
4.02      In recent years, however, imports of capital goods and equipment,
construction materials such as iron and steel and timber, as well as ferti-
lizers for farming, have begun to be increasingly prominent, a trend likely
to be accentuated in the future with the more systematic efforts at planned
development being made by the Government. But agricultural products still,



- 10 -
and will continue to, dominate export movements to Port Sudan, reflecting
the country's vast natural resources to support agricultural development
of one form or another.
B. Past and Present Traffic
4.03      During 1971-75, SRC freight traffic steadily declined from almost
3.2 million tons to just over 2.5 million tons (or from 2.75 billion ton-km
to 2.28 billion ton-km) as SRC's ability to meet demand was constrained
by frequent mechanical failures arising from inadequate maintenance of diesel
locomotives whose design was also not well adapted to Sudan's climatic condi-
tions. However, this trend was reversed in 1976, following the introduction of
50 new diesel locomotives. For example, on the most heavily used Port Sudan-
Atbara-Khartoum section, which carries 60% of all SRC freight, freight carried
increased over 50% - from 110,000 tons a month in 1975 to 175,000 tons in
1976. Total SRC freight traffic during the year was about 2.7 million tons
(2.76 billion ton-km), some 20% more than in 1975 but still 25% below the
Third Railway Project appraisal forecast.
4.04      During this period, passenger traffic has also declined somewhat
in numbers but increased in passenger-km from 1.03 billion to 1.15 billion.
This is close to the Third Railway Project Appraisal forecasts.
4.05      The decline in rail freight coincided with a rise in the volume
of goods moving by truck between Port Sudan and Khartoum from almost nothing
a few years ago to some 300,000 tons last year. This development has been
due entirely to the Railways' inability to meet the demand, for the cost
of transport by truck is on the average 50% greater than the cost of rail
transport. For example, the per ton-km costs given in the ILO Report "A
Comprehensive Employment Strategy for Sudan" (1975), are 0.75 piastre for
rail and 1.1 piastre for trucks by paved road in 1974 prices. (On the sand
tracks now used by trucks, the difference is much greater, and the truck route
some 400 km longer.) For many commodities, this would imply an additional cost
of IS 5-10 per ton at Khartoum. With the proposed project, the Railways'
capacity should not be a constraint on the traffic it carries and should,
therefore, help minimize the use of the more expensive truck transport on
long distance movements.
C. Financial Performance
4.06      SRC's financial performance during the last few years has more
or less followed the traffic trends. Comparative statements of profit and
loss for the fiscal years 1971 to 1976 are set out in Table 8. Despite tariff
increases over these years, the revenues earned remained approximately
constant from 1971 to 1974 due to the decline in net ton-km (Table 3).



- 11 -
Revenues did increase in 1975 despite the continuing decline in net ton-
km as a result of a tariff increase and the movement of more high-rated
goods. During the same period, working expenses increased 59% from ES 15.7
million (1971) to IS 25.0 million (1975) due primarily to increased fuel
costs. The effect of this was a steady decline in profitability from an
operating profit of iS 1.6 million (1971) to a loss of iS 3.1 million (1975).
For 1974 and 1975 the revenues did not cover the expenses excluding deprecia-
tion. During this period two tariff increases went into effect on February 1,
1974, and July 1, 1974, of 33% and 16% respectively. In short, from 1971 to
1975, working expense increases outstripped revenue increases, while output,
as measured in freight ton-kit, continued to decline.
4.07      A 19% increase in ton-km during 1976 coupled with a tariff increase
of 20% on July 15, 1975, resulted in a 42% increase in freight revenue and a
34% increase in total operating revenues. The increase in working expenses
was 9%. The net effect was that operating revenues covered all expenses,
including depreciation and interest, for the first time since 1972.
4.08      The improvement in operating results was attained primarily by
the acquisition of new locomotives. These assets were purchased by a corres-
ponding increase in long term debt (6S 14.2 million), deferred customs duties
(ES 11.0 million), and decrease in working capital (iS 0.3 million).  Inter-
nally generated funds accounted for hS 6.3 million. Comparative balance
sheets for 1975 and 1976 are given in Table 9 and a cash flow for 1976 is
given in Table 10.
4.09      In summary the operating efficiency, as reflected in the profit
and loss statements, deteriorated through 1975 and then improved considerably
in 1976. The cost of the improvement is reflected in the balance sheet by an
increase in long-term debt and a negative working capital position which can
only be rectified by a continuation of the present upward trend of operations.
1). Future Traffic
4.10      SRC's Research Department had prepared a traffic forecast up to
1983 as a basis for estimating its investment requirements during the Six-
Year Development Plan for 1978-83. The forecast, based on known and planned
developments in the principal freight traffic generating sectors - agriculture
and industry, recognizes that a growing proportion of high-value, low volume
traffic will increasingly use highway transport, especially on the Port
Sudan-Khartoum route, and that almost all white oil traffic will use the
pipeline on this route from 1978 onwards. The forecast, shown in detail in
Table 11 with an explanatory note in Annex 7, was reviewed with SRC. Past
experience with project implementation in Sudan indicates a 20% shortfall as
probable, and hence a 20% reduction in the levels forecast by SRC has been
used as the basis for the appraisal, for arriving at the composition of the
proposed project and for evaluating the planned investments.



- 12 -
4.11      The appraisal forecast visualizes an increase in SRC freight traffic
from 2.7 million tons (2.76 billion ton-km) in 1976 to 5.3 million tons (4.51
billion ton-km) in 1983, an increase of 10% per year (7% per year), and is
consistent with the country's general economic growth expectations of over 5%
per year. This rapid increase is due to the coming on stream, over the next
four years, of a number of projects in agriculture, livestock and industry.
Major developments include those at Kenana, North-West Sennar, Asalya, Melut
and Mangala for sugar; at Rahad and the Blue Nile Scheme for cotton and
groundnuts; at Khartoum, Gezira and Port Sudan for textile manufacture; and at
Khartoum and Wad Medani for leather tanning.
4.12      A notable feature of the traffic forecast is the increasing impor-
tance of local freight traffic for SRC. It will go up from about 0.3 million
tons in 1976 to over 1.5 million tons in 1983, or from about 13% of freight
traffic to 28%. This reflects, in part, the substitution of imports of
commodities like sugar, foodgrains and textiles by domestic production. The
volume as well as share of traffic to Port Sudan will also increase dramati-
cally, as Sudan's agricultural potential begins to be exploited on a broader
front with growing exports of sugar, foodgrains and oilseeds. During this
period, the character and composition of traffic from Port Sudan to the rest
of the country (reflecting mainly imports) will undergo a major change. With
the completion of the white oil products pipeline in 1977, this traffic will
cease to be important to SRC. Fertilizers, iron and steel products and
machinery will record substantial increases, while imported sugar and foodgrain
movements will cease. Average haul is forecast to decline from 1,000 km to
850 km.
4.13      Passenger traffic, on the other hand, is not expected to grow
as rapidly, reflecting a conscious policy decision that it should not be
encouraged in order to provide maximum possible freight transport capacity
on the railway. Total passenger traffic is expected to grow from 3.2
million in 1976 to 5.6 million in 1983, an annual growth of 8% (Table 12).
5. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scope
5.01      The proposed project is a further phase in the modernization and
strengthening of SRC and represents a major effort to improve operations,
maintenance and procurement, and to add to its traffic-carrying capacity.
The project comprises the investment requirements of SRC during the first
three years (1978 to 1980) of the Six-Year National Development Plan. The
principal elements of the project are:
(a) expansion and reorganization of workshop facilities to
undertake appropriate maintenance of locomotives and
rolling stock, particularly the former;



- 13 -
(b) completion of the telecommunications improvements needed
to improve reliability of service, particularly on the
western and southern sections;
(c) assistance to SRC in carrying out its program of track
renewal;
(d) provision of 10 diesel locomotives and 400 freight wagons,
for replacement and addition, respectively, to enable SRC
to handle the anticipated growth in traffic, in accordance
with an agreed set of improved operational norms; also spare
parts for maintenance of the present locomotive fleet and
completion of upgrading the wagon fleet;
(e) completion of the Central Railway Training School at Atbara;
and
(f) technical assistance for design of the new Sennar workshop
and for implementing new methods of work organization.
5.02      The total investment requirements during the three years are esti-
mated at ES 56.62 million, with a foreign exchange component of IS 28.82
million.  The direct local cost is ES 15.42 million, plus iS 4.32 million
in exchange tax and iS 8.06 million in customs duties.
B. Background
5.03      As part of the Government exercise for the preparation of the
1978-1983 Six-Year National Economic Development Plan, SRC has prepared
a draft six-year investment plan of its own to meet the targets visualized
for it in the Plan Outline issued earlier by the Government. SRC estimates
its six-year investment requirements as LS 171.0 million in 1976 prices,
before provision for price contingencies. The exact scope of the over-
all National Plan as well as the SRC Plan is still under discussion among
the various Government Ministries involved. However, major elements of
SRC's plan - such as track renewal - are primarily in the nature of deferred
maintenance and minor upgrading which are overdue and cannot be postponed
much longer. Others - such as communications and training school - are de-
signed to complete ongoing works in order to derive full benefit from those
works. Also, SRC is badly in need of expanded and upgraded locomotive and
rolling stock maintenance facilities.
5.04      Based on the above considerations, an investment program for the
first three years (1978 to 1980) of the Six-Year Plan period has been worked
out by SRC and Government and constitutes the proposed Fourth Railway Project.
This project concentrates on items needing urgent action and on modest addi-
tions to capacity more than fully justified by the anticipated traffic growth,
after allowing for operational improvements used as the basis of their plan-
ning efforts by SRC staff. These improvements, reviewed in detail by Bank
staff jointly with SRC staff, were found to be satisfactory, and have been
agreed as operational norms to be achieved by 1983. These are shown in
Table 6, and were formally agreed with SRC during loan negotiations.



- 14 -
C. Details of Project
5.05      The principal components of the project are described in
Annex 8 in detail and are summarized below:
(i) Track Works
5.06      The timber sleepers on the eastern main line Haiya - Kassala -
Sennar and on to Kosti and El Obeid towards the west, are 16 to 22 years
old and are in poor condition. Much of the increasing export traffic
will in future be carried on this route and, for that purpose, the
renewal of sleepers is essential. SRC proposes to renew the sleepers
on some 1,090 km of track over a six-year period; the most urgent 500 km
are included in the proposed project.
5.07      Another line which will carry increasing volumes of traffic is
that from El Rahad to Babanousa; this route now has secondhand light
50 lb/yd (25 kg/m) rail on steel and timber sleepers; the steel rail and
sleepers are up to 70 years old and suffer from loose fastenings and
occasional rail breakages. The track needs upgrading to continue to carry
traffic in the future; this would also enable the carriage of heavier axle-
loads and larger trains and at higher speeds. SRC has made a start with
laying used 75 lb/yd (37.5 kg/m) rail on timber sleepers from El Rahad
towards Abu Zabad (160 km) and the proposed project provides for the com-
pletion of the relaying to Babanousa (another 194 km).
5.08      The stock of used 75 lb/yd rail with SRC (released from laying
90 lb/yd rail on the Port Sudan - Khartoum section some years ago) will not
be sufficient for the whole of the requirements up to Babanousa, and also
to meet the anticipated demand for sidings to new industrial and agricul-
tural developments. Therefore, SRC proposes to continue the laying of
new 90 lb/yd (45 kg/m) rail southwards from Khartoum towards Sennar (for
150 out of 270 km) and to release 75 lb/yd from this section for the
Babanousa relaying work (diagram of existing and proposed rail weights
at Chart 4).
5.09      Provision is also proposed in the project for (a) track mainte-
nance machinery and tools as maintenance at present is purely manual and
mechanical aids are needed for more effective use of the present manpower,
(b) signals and communications (to continue installations started under the
Third Project for improved train control, higher traffic densities and ade-
quate communications between main centers), (c) additional crossing stations
for increased train capacity and (d) improvements to bridges and flood pro-
tection works (to reduce disruptions caused by floods).
(ii) Workshops
5.10      A complete new diesel locomotive workshop is planned for Sennar,
so as to institute proper major overhaul routines, improved work methods
and new staff management techniques, for locomotives serving the southern



- 15 -
half of the system. The existing facilities at Atbara would thereafter
be reorganized for units in the north. A new wagon workshop at Port Sudan
is also planned to replace unsatisfactory facilities at Atbara. These pro-
posals are broadly in accord with the recent survey and report by the Bank
Group consultant.
(iii) Rolling Stock
5.11      No additional main-line diesel locomotives are proposed, but at
least the 15 Cockerill-Ougree units put into service in 1960/61 should
be replaced; these will be replaced by 10 new units of higher capacity and
better design. Additional freight wagons will be needed to cater for the
increased traffic forecast and, as a minimum, 400 units have been provided;
more may be needed, but this can be better judged later in the project period
as traffic develops (Annex 9).
5.12      Provision is also made for continuing the program for providing
stronger couplers and roller bearings on the existing stock of wagons and
coaches. As a result of the program to date, the number of on-line failures
from broken couplers, over-heated bearings, etc., has declined consider-
ably (Table 5). Provision is also made for locomotive spare parts to ensure
timely maintenance which would help to increase availability.
(iv) Training and Technical Assistance
5.13      Construction of a n,ew central training school has started under
the Third Project; completion of the classrooms and practical training facili-
ties are provided for in the new project. Some technical assistance, reques-
ted by SRC, for the initial establishment of the school, preparation of
syllabuses and training for operational and mechanical maintenance classes, is
also included.
5.14      Technical assistance, to design and implement a different form of
work organization in the new Sennar workshop, is provided for. The proposed
organization will attempt to correct some of the difficulties described in
Chapter 3, Section D - lack of effective supervision, lack of commitment to
work, low group norms for work and poor work quality. It will rely on:
(a) autonomous work groups to restore a feeling of respon-
sibility and improve discipline. Proper execution of
maintenance tasks will be the group's responsibility,
rather than the individuals'. Group members will be
rewarded according to group work quality. Faced with
this new set-up, the groups will hopefully create their
own quality control procedures, in addition to management's.
(b)  a system of incentives linking rewards to good perfor-
mance of the locomctives serviced.
A team of consultants, bringing together management specialists of the Uni-
versity of Khartoum and expatriate experts, will be responsible for designing
and implementing this work organization. Their proposed terms of reference
(Annex 10) were reviewed and agreed during loan negotiations. If successful,
similar organization schemes will be implemented in other parts of the Rail-
ways.



- 16 -
5.15      Provision is also made for technical assistance for workshop
design, locomotive testing systems, communications and communications main-
tenance.
D. Cost Estimates
5.16      Total project cost is estimated at LS 56.62 million (US$141.6
million); of this LS 28.82 million (US$72.1 million) is in foreign exchange,
LS 12.38 million (US$30.9 million) represents local taxes and duties and 1,S
15.42 million (US$38.6 million) comprises other local costs. Details of the
cost estimate are given in Table 13 and summarized below:
iS million             US$ million equivalent  Bank Group
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Financing
1.   Track            13.43    10.68    24.11    33.58    26.70    60.28         8.74
2.   Workshops         2.18      2.18     4.36      5.45      5.45    10.90      5.45
3.   Rolling Stock    7.33    12.12    19.45    18.33    30.30    48.63          1.35
4.   Training and
Technical
Assistance       0.44     0.54      0.98      1.10     1.35      2.45      1.35
5.   Price
Contingencies   4.42      3.30      7.72    11.05      8.25    19.30      3.11
Total    27.80    28.82    56.62    69.51    72.05   141.56    20.00
5.17      The cost estimates are based on recent quotations and bids for
similar equipment, updated for 1977 prices, together with estimated local
taxes. No physical contingency has been provided as the quantities for the
major items can be considered as fixed; but price contingencies have been
provided on the basis of 10% per year on local costs, and 8% per year on
foreign costs plus local taxes on imports.
E. Financing and Procurement
5.18      Of the foreign cost of the project amounting to US$72.1 million
equivalent, US$71.4 million will be met from external borrowings and the
balance of US$0.7 million by the Government. It is proposed that the Bank
Group provide US$20.0 million (US$8.0 million as an IDA Credit and US$12.0
million as a Third Window Loan). Of the remainder of the foreign costs, FED
is expected to provide US$6.6 million equivalent as a grant and the Kuwait,
Arab and Abu Dhabi Funds US$44.8 million equivalent as loans. The financing



- 17 -
arrangements were reviewed during negotiations and have since been confirmed
by the financing agencies and the Government. Their signing as well as the
signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SRC are
conditions of effectiveness.
5.19      The local cost of the project includes direct local expenditures
as well as customs duties and exchange tax on imports. Like all State and
private enterprises in Sudan, SRC is required to pay customs duties and an
"exchange" tax on all imported goods; the customs duties on railway equipment
vary between 12.5% and 45%, while the exchange tax is 15%. SRC will
meet the direct local expenditures and the exchange tax. The Government has
indicated its intention to defer payment of customs duties (as was done on the
Third Project) as its contribution to the project.
5.20      Equipment and material financed by the Bank Group will be obtained
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines except for:
(a)  small orders under US$50,000 each, but not more than
US$500,000 in total;
(b) radio communications equipment, so as to standardize with
that being provided under Credit 457-SU (after international
bidding); the amount involved is about US$0.5 million; and
(c)  spare parts and components for locomotives which are specific
to each type of locomotive and critical to sat4sfactory in-
stallation and operation; the amount involved is about US$1.5
million.
The total amount involved in direct or negotiated procurement under (b) and
(c) above is US$2.0 million equivalent. Items involved in Bank Group
financing will include rail fastenings, train control equipment, steel work
and other imported material for workshop buildings, workshop machinery, and
equipment for the training school. There is no domestic preference.
F. Disbursements
5.21      Disbursements from the IDA Credit and the Third Window Loan will
be made on the basis of the CIF (Port Sudan) cost of imported equipment and
materials and, in the case of technical assistance, the estimated foreign cost
of foreign consultants/experts and the corresponding local costs of local
consultants/experts. The schedule of estimated disbursements is given in
Table 14. Any savings on items to be financed by the Bank Group should be
used to finance the foreign exchange cost of similar additional items, should
these be found necessary in subsequent reviews of the project, subject to a
request to that effect from SRC and approval by the Association.



- 18 -
G. Execution
5.22      SRC, which will have direct responsibility for execution of the
project, is competent to carry it out. The anticipated project implemen-
tation schedule was discussed and agreed during negotiations (Annex 11).
5.23      Procurement delays under Credit 457-SU have arisen primarily from
(i) SRC procedures and (ii) cost increases since 1973 necessitating frequent
revision of the list of goods to be procured. The former have been somewhat
simplified by combining the office of the Chairman with that of the General
Manager and moving the former's offices in Khartoum to the Railways head-
quarters in Atbara.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Projected Operating Statements
6.01      The financial projections assume that maintenance costs will continue
to rise until the project is fully implemented at the end of 1981, at which
time the costs will stabilize for the rolling stock to be maintained by the
new workshop facilities provided by the project. The maintenance costs for
the remainder of the fleet will continue to rise. The projections are stated
in constant 1977 prices. Assumptions underlying the financial forecasts are
contained in Annex 12.
6.02      Despite the increase in maintenance costs of locomotives and wagons
since 1971, as calculated using a fixed monetary unit, and the increase
in fuel prices, SRC achieved a breakeven position during 1976. This was
primarily due to the introduction of new locomotives which increased carrying
capacity and resulted in a 19% increase in ton-km over 1975. The working
ratio attained in 1976 was 83% which should improve to 79% in 1977 and show
continued improvement through to the end of the projection period. The
operating ratio of 93% in 1976 should also follow a similar pattern. The
improvement will be mainly the result of increased capacity to meet the demand
for the movement of goods.
6.03      Revenue forecasts were calculated on the basis of the estimated
average haul for each commodity, and after reducing SRC traffic forecasts by
approximately 20% (Chapter 4, Section D). Passenger revenue is expected to
increase 8% per year. The rate of return on net fixed assets in use is
projected at 5.0% in 1978 and should rise to 7.7% by 1983. The detailed
projections are set out in Table 15 and a schedule of selected financial
indicators is given in Table 16.



- 19 -
B. Projected Balance Sheets
6.04      The project covers the first three years of the Government's
Six-Year Plan which becomes effective July 1, 1977 (FY78). For the purpose
of financial evaluation, an estimate has been made of capital asset re-
quirements for the second three-year phase of the Six-Year Plan and the
first three years of the subsequent Plan. These requirements are based on
the continuation of existing and recurring programs and estimated needs
to meet growing traffic demands.
6.05      SRC ended 1976 with the best operating results since 1972, but prior
years' losses, coupled with the transfer of the profitable Port Sudan opera-
tions to the Sea Ports Corporation and the purchase of new capital assets,
has raised problems of liquidity. Current liabilities exceeded current
assets by 1S 3.1 million. The major current obligation is the overdraft
with the Bank of Sudan. Starting from this negative position, it will take
SRC until approximately 1984 to attain a liquid position with a current ratio
of 1:1. However, from 1980 onwards, the position should improve each year.
The Government has agreed to explore various means of injecting additional
capital into SRC, or guaranteeing continuing overdraft facilities, in order to
help it to meet obligations for some years to come.
6.06      During negotiations it was agreed that the proposed IDA Credit and
Third Window Loan would be onlent to SRC for a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of four years, wi.th interest at 8.0%. A 20-year term has been
assumed for the Kuwait, Arab and Abu Dhabi Fund Loans but with interest at 4%
in line with existing Government policy. The FED grant has been treated as an
increase in equity capital.
6.07      Further long-term debt, commencing in 1981 and captioned as "Future
Requirements", has been treated in the same manner as the onlending terms of
IDA and Third Window funds. ])ividends on Government capital have been provided
at the rate of 5% and have been charged to retained earnings annually.
6.08      Provision for depreciation has been charged in accordance with the
rates used by SRC which are considered adequate. The provision commences
in the year following the acquisition of the asset. The projected balance
sheets are set out in Table 17, and the projected statements of retained
earnings and capital reserve in Table 18.
C. Projected Cash Flow
6.09      The annual cash flows are expected to be positive throughout
the projection period. SRC's operations will provide sufficient inter-
nally generated funds to cover the local project costs, excluding customs



- 20 -
duty, pay interest on and amortize long-term debts, and finance the local
component of new capital investments when required. In addition a slow
reduction in the Bank of Sudan overdraft will be possible commencing in 1978.
Details of the projected cash flow are shown in Table 19-A.
6.10      The projections assume that all freight accounts will be collected
within 45 days of date of billing. In the past, however, there have been
substantial amounts due to SRC from Government departments/organizations
for long periods of time. The Government has confirmed that all accounts will
be kept on a current basis and that all arrears will be paid in full by June
30, 1977, as required under the Third Railway Project (Credit 457-SU).
6.11      SRC's financial targets, according to its legislation, are to generate
funds adequate to cover its operating expenditure and debt service obligations
and to finance a reasonable part of investment needs, including replacements.
The investment plan envisages SRC meeting LS 28.06 million, or 49 % of
investment requirements. This includes ES 8.06 million for deferred import
duties. SRC's cash position should improve during the projection period at
the rate forecast. During the period of implementation of the proposed project,
the Government and SRC have agreed to consult the Association whenever invest-
ments beyond those included in the ongoing and proposed projects are esti-
mated to exceed      ES 500,000 (US$1.25 million equivalent) per annum in
total.
6.12      SRC should maintain a reasonable relationship between net cash
revenue and debt service requirements. During negotiations it was agreed
that, unless otherwise agreed with the Association, SRC will not incur
any debt if its net cash revenue for the fiscal year or the 12 consecutive
months immediately before the date of the occurrence, whichever is greater,
would be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements of any
succeeding fiscal year.
6.13      The projected cash flow is stated in constant 1977 values except
for the amortization of long-term debt, both principal and interest, which
is shown in the actual current monetary values which will be paid each year.
As the impact of these payments on the cash flow will decrease with inflation,
a separate calculation has been made to determine the amounts involved. The
total debt service payments over the projection period of ES 75.6 million
in current values, will be reduced by inflation to LS 49.2 million in 1977
values. The details are given in Table 19-B and the revised cash flow showing
the effect of inflation is set out in Table 19-C.
6.14      If actual traffic growth is, say, 25% less than the projected
growth, the impact on SRC for the project period would be a reduction in
revenues (ES 9.2 million), offset slightly by a reduction in working ex-
penses (ES 2.5 million) and possible deferment of wagon purchases (ES 4.8
million), resulting in a net reduction in cash flow of only MS 1.9 million.
However, if the traffic growth rate were only half that projected, the
cash flow reduction would be LS 8.7 million, requiring compensatory tariff
increases or further borrowings from Government to enable SRC to meet the
local project costs.



- 21 -
D. Future Financial Objective
6.15      All projections are stated in constant 1977 prices.  This assumes
that freight tariffs will be adjusted to reflect future cost increases.
The forecasts do not assume any other tariff increases. In terms of a return
on net fixed assets in use, a financial target of at least 6% per annum in
1981 and subsequent years would be appropriate. It was agreed during negotia-
tions that SRC will take such measures as may be necessary to achieve this
objective.
E. Financial Internal Rate of Return on Project
6.16      In order to assess the financial soundness of the proposed project,
the financial internal rate of return was calculated by projecting the opera-
ting statements of SRC with and without the project setting out the profit
before depreciation and interest. The projections are done in constant 1977
prices.
6.17      Without the project, SRC will reach its traffic carrying capacity
in 1978 assuming no improvement in operating efficiency beyond 1976 levels.
The total revenue for the future has hence been held constant at the 1978
amount. Salaries and wages and parts usage will increase without the project
due to increased maintenance requirements and the lack of proper workshops
and facilities. To determine the amount of the increase, actual maintenance
costs were examined for the period 1971-1976, from which the future trend has
been projected. As the number of locomotive-km would remain constant at the
1978 level, the annual fuel cost has been held constant. Details are shown
in Table 20.
6.18      Projected operating statements with the project setting out the
profit before depreciation and interest are given in Table 21. Revenues
remain constant from 1981 on as SRC would reach its traffic carrying capacity
at that point in the absence of further investments.
6.19      The financial internaL rate of return for the project investments
is 25%; the calculations are given in Table 22.
7. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Economic Setting
7.01      In order to serve the traffic forecasts discussed in Chapter 4
and promote the further economic development of Sudan, it is essential that
adequate rail transport facilities be provided, as road transport where
available would be more expensive for the relatively long-distance bulk



- 22 -
movements involved. The proposed railway project will seek to do this by (i)
improving the track in selected priority sections of the network needing
improvement; (ii) providing improved workshop facilities for locomotives and
rolling stock in order to increase availability; (iii) assisting SRC in
completing its telecommunications network and training school to help improve
operations through better communications and better trained staff; (iv)
financing replacement locomotives; and (v) providing 400 additional wagons.
It will thus prevent a further deterioration of SRC efficiency, and increase
its transport capacity to the level needed to meet the forecast demand for
rail services.
7.02      Of the total project investments, it is worth pointing out, more
than 80% is directed to improving SRC efficiency and less than 20% (namely,
purchase of wagons) to increasing the size of the fleet. The economic benefits
expected from the major project items are discussed below.
B. Track Works
7.03      Track improvements -- relaying or resleepering -- allow for higher
speeds and quicker turnaround, fewer accidents and lower track maintenance
costs for the first few years. Heavier rails allow for higher axleloads,
which reduce average net cost per ton-km. In addition,
(a)  resleepering of the Haiya-Kassala-Sennar - El Obeid line will
permit a higher traffic density on the shorter route from Port
Sudan to Sennar, which can then carry the forecast 2 million tons
of traffic a year. 120 fewer wagons and 2 fewer locomotives
will be needed, a reduction of LS 1.8 million in equipment
purchases, and iS 0.6 million per year in operating costs;
(b)  rail upgrading on the Khartoum-Sennar line will permit higher
speed and lower maintenance costs. A gain of 10 km per hour in
train speed will result in improved turnaround time, reducing
rolling stock needs by one locomotive and 42 wagons, or iS 0.8
million in investment costs. Furthermore upgrading both the
Khartoum-Sennar and the El Rahad lines simultaneously will reduce
project costs, as used rails can be transferred from one section to
the other; the Khartoum-Sennar line would otherwise have to be
rebuilt within the next 10-15 years, and both the costs of track
materials and labor would have to be incurred at that time; and
(c)  relaying of the El Rahad-Babanousa line will prevent a complete
shutdown of this route within the next ten years, unless traffic
is greatly reduced or prohibitive maintenance costs are incurred.
The line is presently in very poor condition, but it will be
required to carry 33 million ton-km a year for the Savannah



- 23 -
livestock project, whiile other traffic will almost double.
Transport of livestock cannot suffer delays and, unless the
Railway is able to provide reliable and timely services, the
traffic would go by truck (or would not move at all). Road
transport cost per ton-km would be bS 0.0057 (about 50%)
higher, excluding road building costs. With the proposed
works, operating expenses for other traffic would also be
reduced because average freight volume per train will be
larger, and because locomotives will be better utilized,
a change to lighter ones being no longer required on this
route. Benefits from reduced operating expenditures would
amount to bS 1.6 million per year.
C. Workshops
7.04      The construction of new locomotive and wagon workshops will result
in:
(a) reduced costs in rolling stock and locomotive maintenance,
because a more adequate design of the workshops will help
increase labor productivity. iS1.2 million for locomotives and
ITS 0.7 million for wagons can thus be saved for labor and parts
in 1985, rising to a total of bS 2.8 million per year in the
1990's; and
(b) increased availability of locomotives and rolling stock,
because better maintenance will reduce the incidence of
on-line mechanical failures, an important cause of train
delays. In addition, the modern modular approach to main-
tenance reduces the average servicing time for locomotives, so
that more locomotives from the existing fleet are available to
haul traffic. Both factors combined are expected to increase
availability of locomotives serviced at Sennar by 25%, thus
reducing the number of locomotives needed by about 20; the
corresponding savings would amount to hS 6.4 million in equip-
ment costs.
D. Rolling Stock
7.05      The 400 wagons, 10 locomotives and locomotive spare parts to be
purchased as part of the project will provide a transport capacity of 600
miLlion ton-km a year, thus allowing SRC to meet forecast demand for transport
services. The traffic would otherwise have to be carried by road, at an
additional cost of IS 0.005-0.0057 per ton-km, or at least IS 3.4 million per
year.  (Furthermore, some 2,000 trucks with an average of life of 8-10 years



- 24 -
would have to be imported at a foreign exchange cost of bS 15 million or so
compared with the same amount for wagons and locomotives with an average life
of 20-40 years.)
E. Other Items
7.06      The benefits attributable to other items to be provided under
the project -- communications equipment, signalling, technical assistance,
etc. -- accounting for about 5% of the total project cost, cannot be
accurately singled out or quantified. However, these investments are
essential to improve the general level of SRC's operational efficiency
and to help SRC realize optimum benefits from other investments being
undertaken under the project.
F. Economic Return
7.07      On the basis of the benefits described above, the economic return
on the project as a whole is 27X. For calculating the return, taxes and
price contingencies have been excluded from project costs. The various
components of the project discussed above have returns ranging from 15% to
65%. Details are shown in Tables 23-A to 23-E. With a shadow price for
foreign exchange 25% higher than the market rate, the return is 24%.
G. Sensitivity and Risk Analyses
7.08      The sensitivity of the return to changes in the principal para-
meters such as costs and benefits was also analyzed. The results, shown in
Table 24, indicate that, with a 10% increase in costs combined with a 10%
decrease in benefits, the return would still be a satisfactory 21%.
7.09      The economic return calculations are based on two critical assump-
tions: (i) that the traffic will materialize as forecast and (ii) that
the operational objectives given in Table 6, and the implied improvements
in SRC efficiency, will be achieved by 1983. As regards the first assumption,
since less than 20% of project investments relate to expected traffic growth
up to 1980, the error will be one of timing, for even with a traffic growth of
only about 6% p.a. (4% p.a. in ton-km), for instance, the additional wagons
would be needed by 1983. The economic return would still be about 12%. The
second assumption is supported by the judgement that conditions are more pro-
pitious now than at any time in the past for realising the planned operational
improvements, as the norms have been suggested by SRC itself and the project
includes a number of measures to help SRC achieve them.



- 25 -
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with SRC and the Govern-
ment on the following matters:
(a) operational targets (paras. 3.06 and 5.04);
(b) investments outside project (para. 6.11);
(c) debt limitation (para. 6.12); and
(d) financial targets and future tariff adjustments (para. 6.15).
8.02      Agreement was reached with the Government on:
(a) allocation of foreign exchange to SRC for spare parts
(para. 3.04);
(b) additional capital for SRC (para. 6.05); and
(c) relending of IDA Credit/Third Window and other loan
proceeds to SRC (para. 6.06).
8.03      The following are conditions of effectiveness (para. 5.18):
(a)  the signing of loan agreements with the Kuwait, Arab and
Abu Dhabi Funds;
(b)  the effectiveness of the FED grant; and
(c)  the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
8.04      Project progress reporting requirements have been agreed with
SRC in line with those for the ongoing Credit 457-SU.
8.05      On the basis of the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of US$8.0 million and a Third Window Loan of US$12.0
million to the Government of Sudan. The IDA Credit will be on standard IDA
terms and the Third Window Loan will be at 4.2%, with the first repayment
due January 15, 1983 and a final maturity date of January 15, 2001.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Project Performance Audit of Second Railway Project
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The Operations Evaluation Department issued a "Project Performance
Audit: Sudan Second Railway Project" on April 12, 1974. The general objective
of the project, as stated in the audit, was to increase the efficiency and
capacity of the Railways by providing additional diesel locomotives and rolling
stock, improving existing equipment and facilities, and implementing several
institutional and financial improvements. The main comments included in the
audit are summarized below:
(i) the project was successfully physically completed at about the
estimated cost but only after a delay of three and a half years;
(ii) most of the institution-building measures in the Loan covenants
were adhered to;
(iii) some of the financial covenants had not been implemented;
(iv) actual traffic growth proved to be much less than forecast;
(v)  operating efficiency did not improve as expected;
(vi) the financial position deteriorated; and
(vii) actual economic benefits were lower than expected.
II. LESSONS LEARNED AND ACTION TAKEN
2.       The Reasons for the Delay in Completion were:
(a)  disagreement between the Bank and SPC on certain specifications
for locomotives which the Bank thought to be too restrictive
for international competitive bidding (ICB). As a result of ICB,
the contract was awarded for locomotives which proved unsatis-
factory for the climatic conditions of the Sudan. The Bank
should not finance under ICB specialized equipment where the
lowest bidder may not necessarily supply the best equipment for
the prevailing circumstances;
(b)  the stoppage of track relaying to avoid traffic interruptions
during peak shipping periods and the late arrival of sleepers
and rails. The stoppage resulted from poor planning which has
since been improved, and the late delivery was beyond the
control of SRC; and
(c) the lengthening, by about three months, of supply lines due to
the closing of the Suez Canal, also beyond the control of SRC.



MThTEX I
Page 2
3.       The Institution-Building Measures were Successfully implemented But
With One Change. The Loan called for the appointment of qualified accountants
to audit SRC.  The Auditor General Chambers Act extended the Auditor General's
responsibiiities to all public bodies and corporations, greatly increasing his
workload. To alleviate the situation, training of personnel from the Auditor
General's staff in the USA and the UK was financed under Credit 457-SU and
successfully completed.
4.       Seven Financial Measures Included as Covenants are Discussed Below:
(a)  The settlement of Government accounts on a current basis:  This
covenant was also included in the Third Railway Project which
extended the settlement date from July 1, 1966, to July 1, 1977.
In response to requests for implementation of this covenant from
both SRC and the-Bank, the Government took the intermediate step
of arranging compensatory overdraft facilities in lieu thereof.
While helpful in the short term, it added an interest burden
(at 9%) to SRC's deteriorating financial condition.  During the
appraisal of the fourth railway project, the Government agreed to
reduce the amount outstanding by approximately 50% immediately and
the balance before June 30, 1977, in order to meet the covenant
under 457-SU.  The Government has since directed all govJer=ent
organizations to settle SRC bills on a current basis.
(b)  The reduction of Government equity capital:  The invested caDital
was to be reduced from ES 21.5 million to ES 6.0 million. In fact
it has been reduced to iS 11.4 million, but any further reduction
would be undesirable as the liquidity of SRC has been drastically
reduced since the date of the Project Performance Audit.
(c)  Increase in interest rate payable to the Government from &% to
6.5%:  This was deferred during negotiations of Credit 457-SU.
(d) Transfer of funds to the post office account: No transfers have
been made as there have been no cash surpluses, nor wl'l there be
for some time.
(e) Amendment of depreciation methods: This has been inaplemented.
(f)  Consultants tc formulate changes in tariff structure:  This has
been implemented.
(g) Raising of salaries: This has been implemented.
5.       Traf-fic Growth Less than Forecast.  The Audit report emphasizes that
the economic assumptions used in the forecasts were too optimistic.  The
problem, however, was not primarily one of forecasting demand but rather the
lack of capacity to meet demand due to poor operating efficiency. This is
discussed in the following paragraph.
6.       Onerating Efficiencv Did Not Improve as Expected.  The Bank has
recognized that poor maintenance is the crux of the problems of SRC. It is



ANNEX 1
Page 3
reflected in low availability, on-line failures, poor turnaround time and,
hence, lower revenues and higher operating expenses. This, in turn, leads to
low (or negative) cash flows and the resultant inability to meet financial
objectives (and covenants). This was recognized in the Third Railway Project
(457-SU) when provision was made for consultants (Australian National Railways)
and a start on the establishment of a central training school at Atbara. In
addition, the maintenance and workshop organization for locomotives and rolling
stock was reviewed during 1976 by a Bank Group consultant and the proposals now
made by SRC follow in general his recommendations. The proposed fourth railway
project also includes the expansion and reorganization of workshop facilities
and technical assistance to design and implement a different form of work organiza-
tion in the new Sennar workshop. All of these measures are aimed at increasing
operating efficiency to enable SRC to meet not only its operational targets but
other objectives as well.
7.       The Deterioration of the Financial Position.   The decline in profitability
and the cash position can be mainly attributed to SRC's inability to meet the
demand for service for the reasons set out in the preceding paragraph. While
operating costs, particularly fuel, have increased rapidly in the past few years,
tariffs have been adjusted upwards to compensate for it. The traffic carried
has consistently fallen below forecasts for some years. The problem is not
basically financial but operational, stemming from poor maintenance.
8.       Economic Benefits.  The dieselization program and the track renewal
program accounted for 54% of the Second Railway Project. The major benefits
were to be better utilization of locomotives and rolling stock. As previously
indicated, better utilization did not, in fact, occur because of maintenance
problems and the purchase of unsatisfactory locomotives (under ICB). This
decreased the benefits expected from the project (in the case of locomotives,
almost 50%) and hence the rate of return. The Bank has recognized the over-
riding problem of maintenance and both the Third Railway Project and, to a
greater extent, the proposed fourth railway project address this problem.
January 1977



ANNEX 2
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY FRCJECT
Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects in Sudan
Credit/
Year    Loan            Amount                                                                                            Status
(US$ million)
1958    Loan            39.0         (i)  the acquisition and operation of diesel locomotives and rolling                Satisfactorily
202-SU                           stock;                                                                          completed in 1964
(ii) the improvement, modernization and expansion of various railway
facilities, including repair shops, workshops, marshalling yards,
station loops and signialling equipment;
(iii) the relaying with 75-pound rail of approximately 400 km of the
Sennar-Haiya line and the use of the rails and other salvageable
materials taken up from such line in carrying out items (iv) and (v)
below;
(iv) the completion of construction of the Western extension, from
Babanusa to Nyala, and installation of necessary operating facilities;
(v)  the construction of the Southern extension, from Babanusa to Wau,
and installation of necessary operating facilities;
(vi) the modernization and expansion of Port Sudan by the construction of
two cargo berths for ocean-going vessels, installation of necessary
operating facilities and dredging for a third berth; and
(vii) the acquisition of passenger and cargo barges, diesel engines and
equipment and materials for the improvement and modernization of
river transport services.
1965    Loan            31.0         (i)  the procurement of mainline and shunting diesel locomotives and of             Satisfactorily
440-SU                           diesel railcar sets;                                                            completed in 1972
(ii) the procurement, construction, and improvement of rolling stock;
(iii) the relaying with 90-pound rails of about 500 km of the Khartoum-
Atbara-Port Sudan line;
(iv) the acquisition of one dredger, and of equipment and materials for
the improvement of river transport services; and
(v)  the completion of two cargo berths and the construction of a cargo
shed at Port Sudan, and the procurement of tugs, barges, cranes
and cargo-handling equipment.
;"72    Credit           7.0        (i)  cunsulting services to the Department of Roads for:                             In progress, com-
331-SU                           a)  improving its organization and operations (with emphasis on                 pletion expected
highway betterment and maintenance);                                       in June 1978
b) identifying high priority road construction projects; and
c) carrying out feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads
identified under b) above, followed by detailed engineering of
about 350 km of the highest priority roads;
(ii) purchase of spare parts for highway maintenance, workshop and labora-
tory equipment; new equipment in these categories with related spare
parts; and materials and supplies for highway betterment works and
workshop construction; and
(iii) technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport in transport planning
and coordination, as well as staff training.
1973    Credit           24.0        (i)  financing of Sudan Railways Corporation's investment program up to             In progress, com-
457-SU                           1975, including:                                                                pletion expected
a)  for the railway: track renewal, structures and communications,             in June 1978
locomotives and rolling stock, and a central training school;
b) for Port Sudan: cargo-handling equipment, facilities and
structures, and technical assistance;
(ii) equipment and technical assistance for the River Transport Corporation;
(iii) preinvestment studies for future airport development; and
(iv) training for the staff of the Auditor General.
1976    Credit            4.0             Technical assistance to increase the capacity of Sudanese institutions   Credit became
614-SU                           to execute preinvestment work in all sectors.                                   effective in
October 1976
1976    Loan             20.0        (i)  the construction of two regional airports, at Wau and Port Sudan,               Loan/credit became
1287-SU/                         and upgrading of Juba and Malakal Airports;                                     effective in
Credit           9.0       (ii)  supervision of the construction/reconstruction in (i) above;                    January 1977
643-SU                    (iii)  the provision of maintenance, and navigational and communications
equipment to the project airports; and
(iv) technical assistance and staff training for the Civil Aviation
Department.
May 1977



ANNEX 3-A
Page 1
SUTDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Roads and Road Transport
1.         Of the 19,000 km of roads in Sudan, only about 700 km are paved,
mostly near Khartoum, The 6,000 km of gravel roads are located mostly in the
three southern provinces where laterite material is available. Much of the
road network, particularly in the more populated and developed areas, passes
over heavy clay soils which are generally impassable during the rainy season
(June-September) .
Densit
2.         Road density, 7 km per 1,000 km2, is the lowest in East Africa.
There are 1.1 km of roads per 1,000 persons, only slightly higher than in
Ethiopia which has the lowest ratio in the whole region.
Vehicle Fleet
3.         In 1974, to encourage modal diversity away from the railway, the
Government began subsidizing the import of commercial vehicles, which has had
a considerable impact on the size of the fleet, although detailed statistics
are not available. In Sudan in 1972, the latest date for which there are data
there were some 60,000 motor vehicles, about half of which were passenger
cars; the remainder were trucks and buses. On average, fleet density was less
than 4 vehicles per 1,000 persons, but actual density for most of the country
was much lower because, in 1972, 60% of the fleet was, and undoubtedly still is,
concentrated in the Khartoum region.
Traffic
4.         The main road network is principally a feeder to the railway system;
exports are transported by road to the nearest railhead and imported consumer
goods are moved from the railway by road to the scattered towns and settlements.
Sudan's three most important and heavily-travelled roads are Khartoum-Wad Medani,
Khartoum-Kassala and Port Sudan-Haiya. Data collected on these roads over a
25-day period (May-June) in 1975 showed average traffic volumes of 1,600
vehicles per day (Vpd) on the 186 km, paved Khartoum-Wad Medani road (75% trucks
and buses), an increase of about 50% over 1973 flows. Traffic on the 450 km,
unpaved Khartoum-Kassala route av-eraged 890 vpd (99% trucks and buses). Although
280 vpd were recorded on the 225 km, unpaved Port Sudan-Haiya road, present
traffic flows are thought to be much higher as a result of the paving of 58 km
of this road in 1976.
5.         A rough indication of traffic growth can be obtained from statistics
on road user fuel consumption, which increased an average of 6-7% annually during
1963-73, the latest years for which data are available. This increase took place
during a period in which GDP rose in the range of 3-5% per year.



ANNEX 3-A
Page 2
Trucking Industry
6.         The trucking industry is concentrated in Kassala, Blue Nile and
Khartoum Provinces, although the 740 km Juba-Wau road also carries consider-
able truck freight. Operators dispatch their trucks in response to known
demands. Trucks are privately owned and most operators have only one vehicle.
Administration
7.         The Roads and Bridges Corporation (RBPC) is legally responsible for
construction and maintenance of all trunk roads. In practice, RBPC maintains
only the paved roads in the north and other northern roads are left to the
Provincial Authorities. In the south, the Southern Region Ministry of Trans-
port and Communications (SMTCR)maintains the trunk roads; other roads are
looked after by the Provincial Authorities. RBPC at present lacks the skilled
manpower and funds necessary to plan and prepare highway investment programs
and to construct and maintain roads adequately.
Financing
8.         Highway expenditures are financed from general revenues and by ex-
ternal aid, the latter accounting for almost all major construction. A break-
down of RBPC's budget showing domestic and foreign sources of funds is not
available. In 1970-73, the latest years for which information is available,
IS 17.2 million was allocated to RBPC, but only iTS 9.1 million, or 53%, was
spent. Until 1972, no funds were allocated to road maintenance and rehabili-
tation. In each of 1972-73, only LS 150,000 was expended in this category,
and although LS 2.2 million was allocated to maintenance in 1974, by the end
of December of that year only IS 44,000 had been spent, mostly due to the lack
of equipment. The highway budget in the south is controlled by the SMTCR; in 1973,
LS 190,000 was allocated to highways, all of which was earmarked for road
maintenance; information on actual expenditures is not available.
9.         Licer.se fees are collected by Provincial Governments, while excise
and import duties on fuel, lubricants, engine oil and spare parts accrue to
the Central Government; these user charges are estimated to have generated
LS 2.5 million in 1973. The Southern Regional Government has its own revenue-
raising power and can allocate the funds collected, but information about the
source and disposition of its revenues is lacking. License and registration
fees are collected by the Provincial Authorities and, in 1973, amounted to an
estimated LS 23,000.
January 1977



ANNEX 3-B
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
River Services
Infrastructure
1.         The principal inland waterway used for transport is the Kosti-Malakal-
Juba (1,450 km) section of the Nile system, which is the major surface trans-
port link between southern and central Sudan, and the Karima-Dongola (290 km)
section in northern Sudan. Also used, sporadically, is the 350-km stretch of
the White Nile between Khartoum-Kosti, the usefulness of which is severely con-
strained by a small, manually-operated lock at the Djebel Aulia Dam 50 km south
of Khartoum. For several months of the year, the Dam serves as a barrier to
the downriver spread of water hyacinth. For the most part, the Nile system is
not utilized to its maximum transport potential because of physical constraints,
principally limited navigational conditions during several months of the year,
and the inefficient services of the River Transport Corporation (RTC).
2.         Port facilities exist at Kosti, Malakal and Juba, but these are
mostly old and obsolete. Although various improvements were planned under
a 1973 Phased Program of Action, they were not implemented because the River
Transport Corporation (RTC) was awaiting the results of studies underway.
RTC is currently acquiring new barges, which arrive unassembled. At least one
additional slipway is required for vessel maintenance. The Government is
negotiating with Poland for such a facility in Kosti and also for a construction
slipway in Khartoum.
Fleet
3.         A major consideration in making optimal use of the Nile system for
transport is that fleet characteristics be compatibe with the river's physical
parameters, which are shallow water (especially during the 3-4 low-water months)
a huge swamp, the Sudd,water hyacinth encroachment, sharp bends and shoals. Thus,
the river transport fleet should be shallow draft and composed of relatively
small craft. Currently, however, RTC is acquiring 28 500-ton barges, with a
supplier's credit from the Federal Republic of Germany, which will be limited
to 40% capacity utilization during the low-water season.
4.         In addition to the 28 new barges mentioned above, four new oil barges
are now being delivered, financed under the Third Railway Project. Total fleet
capacity appears adequate for present needs.
Traffic
5.         About 70% of river traffic flows on the Kosti-Juba section (with 30%
on the Karima-Dongola stretch). Southbound freight is generally transferred from
rail to river at Kosti because the small lock between Khartoum and Kosti severely
constrains traffic movement. Some 90% of freight traffic on the Juba reach flows
from north to south.



ANNEX 3-B.
Page 2
6.        Over 1964-74, the volume of freight transported fluctuated, but
the overall trend was downward, largely due to the disturbances in the south.
In 1974, the volume moved was only 60% of the amount transported in 1964. However,
the downward trend was reversed in 1975 and traffic increased 11% over the pre-
vious year. Passenger traffic has followed a similar fluctuating pattern. Traffic
volumes carried are dictated by fleet availability and do not reflect actual de-
mand, which is considered to be much higher.
Administration
7.         Until 1973, river services were provided by SRC.  In that year,
RTC was established, with exclusive right to carry passengers, baggage, cargo,
mail and livestock by river. The Corporation has a full-time Chairman,
assisted by a General Manager for day-to-day operations. RTC continues to
be the weakest of the three Corporations to which assistance was provided
under the Third Railway Project, but it faces the toughest rehabilitation
task because river services were almost completely inoperative during the
10 years (1962-72) of political unrest in the south. Further, ever since
its establishment, RTC has been handicapped by poor operational planning and
management and shortages of barge capacity and qualified staff. To help
alleviate this, the Federal Republic of Germany is providing three technical
advisors, for two years each, in dockyard work, traffic and barge operations,
and accountancy.
Operations
8.         Operational difficulties constrain the efficiency and reliability
of river services. Waiting time for shipments, other than oil products, is
about six months. Pusher boats and self-propelled units have a low level of
availability because of poor maintenance. Low fleet utilization (30.4%) in freight
traffic, 46% in passenger traffic) is compounded by low load factors (about 60%
for freight lighters and motor ships). The latter is largely a result of the
directional imbalance of traffic and the necessity to underload on shallow
river sections. As the new 500-ton barges come into use, the freight load
factor will probably fall even lower, as they will require underloading for
greater periods due to their deeper draft requirements.
9.         The best prospect for early increased capacity and efficiency is
through improving RTC's capability to make better use of its-fleet. This would
entail strengthening RTC's management, fleet maintenance, channel maintenance/
improvement, and staff training and supervision.
Financial Position
10.        Even the limited data available clearly shows RTC's poor financial
position. Operating costs in 1973, the latest available figures, amounted to
140% of operating revenue, which is typical of river service performance since
1964. RTC has a long way to go to achieve financial viability, which will re-
quire not only revised tariffs but also increase productivity of the available
fleet.
January 1977



ANNEX 3-C
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTII RAILWAY PROJECT
Ports and Shipping
Infrastructure
1.         Existing facilities at Port Sudan are approaching maximum utili-
zation. To accommodate forecast traffic through the year 2000, additional
port development will be necessary. Two recent port feasibility studies have
been carried out, one recommendling substantial expansion of Port Sudan
followed by development of a new port at Suakin for use in the early 1990s;
the other, no major investments at Port Sudan but immediate development of
Suakin. No firm decision on these alternative approaches has been taken by
the Government yet.
Traffic
2.         Before closure of the Suez Canal in 1967, approximately 1,200 ships
called at Port Sudan annually, in contrast to 750 ships per year while the
Canal was closed, from 1967-75 (although during these years the size of the
vessels calling at the port increased, as well as their cargo volumes). With
the re-opening of the Canal, traffic seems to be reverting to the pre-closure
pattern. Traffic is expected to grow substantially through the year 2000 in
line with expected economic development in the country. Unless port capacity
is increased by the early 1980s, traffic requirements will exceed capacity.
Administration
Organization
3.         The Sea Ports Corporation (SPC) was established in July 1974,
under the Ministry of Defense, with responsibility for administering all Sudan
seaports (presently only Port Sudan). SPC is headed by a full-time Chairman
and assisted by a Managing Director for day-to-day operations. The new
organization requires considerable strengthening, especially in port management,
personnel and training, and planning; the proposed First Port Project is
expected to include technical assistance and training for this purpose.
Staffing
4.         All five Department Directors in the recently-reorganized port
management have now been appointed.  In addition, 12 recent university graduates
are being brought into the Corporation as management trainees. The effective-
ness of all administrative and professional staff, and labor forces must be in-
creased through appropriate training.



AANEX 3-C
Page 2
Operations
5.         Port Sudan is basically a rail port, with little or no provision
for the growing role of truck transport. Cargo handling is generally
characterized by low productivity and inefficiency as a result of the heavy
use of manpower rather than equipment. A start on the introduction of
increased-capacity cargo handling equipment (fork lifts, tractors, and
mobile cranes) has been made under the Third Railway Project. (Given in-
creasing volumes of cargo, it is not anticipated that employment would be
greatly affected by a shift to more capital-intensive methods.) The port
is not equipped to handle bulk or unitized cargo, except for oil and wheat
imports, although such increased capacities would be justified by existing
and forecast traffic. The operational productivity of present port facilities
must be improved, in addition to finalizingplans to expand facilities.
Financial Position
6.         SPC's financial position is satisfactory despite its operational
deficiencies because it has few capital investments to amortize and traffic
volume is substantial. During 1975, SPC had revenues of LS 7.15 million,
operating expenditures of ES 2.69 million and, after providing for depre-
ciation and interest, a net operating surplus of ES 3.80 million. (Comparable
figures for the previous year are not available as Port Sudan was then a part
of SRC.) For the current year, the financial situation should continue to
be satisfactory.
Shipping Fleet
7.        The Sudan Shipping Line, originally a joint venture of the Govern-
ments of Sudan and Yugoslavia, has been wholly owned by the Sudan Government
since 1967. It operates seven ships which provide services to North Sea and
Atlantic Ocean ports in Europe, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, and the Far East. The
Line's share in Sudan's foreign trade is increasing gradually. The company is
operated on a sound commercial basis and was very profitable during the
closure of the Suez Canal because it did not have to compete with ships
transiting the Canal and serving Port Sudan en route. The effect of the
Canal's reopening on the company's operations has not begun to be felt fully,
although it is likely to be temporarily adverse.
January 1977



ANNEX "-D
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Civil Aviation
Infrastructure
1.        Sudants 20 airports range from the all-weather 24-hour international
jet airport at Khartoum to a completely unimproved field at Dinder. Except
Khartoum and Juba, all airports are subject to closing during seasonal rains
because of soft runways. Only Khartoum has electronic landing aids, which
are being upgraded with new equipment provided under a UK loan. Under the
Domestic Aviation Project, two new regional airports are to be constructed,
at Port Sudan and Wau; Juba and Malakal Airports will be upgraded to accommodate
modern jet aircraft.
2.        There are virtually no aeronautical communications within the country.
Most traffic information is passed by telephone, if at all. Most of the air-
ports with scheduled services are equipped with VHF radio for airport control
air/ground communications, but these units have a range of only 50-100 km.
While most airports have non-directional radio beams for navigation, it tends
to be very old. The above-mentioned project provides for the necessary
communications and navigational equipment for the four project airports.
Traffic
3.        Air traffic in Sudan has grown relatively rapidly over the past
few years despite seriously constrained domestic services.  Thus, from 1969
to 1974, the number of domestic air passengers more than doubled from
52,000 to 107,000 and domestic air cargo increased from 774 tons to 1,296 tons.
The most important individual route, Khartoum-Port Sudan, accounts for 20%
of passenger movements followed by airports in the west, 32%, and south, 26%.
The four project airports - Port Sudan, Wau, Malakal, and Juba - account for
46% of the domestic passenger flow.
Administration
4.        Sudan's airports are the responsibility of the Civil Aviation
Department (CAD) which, although part of the Ministry of Defence and partly
manned by military personnel, functions as a civilian government department.
Most senior CAD officials are military officers transferred to a civilian
status while with the Department. All the airport commandants and fire
fighting personnel are specially-assigned military personnel.
5.        To upgrade its small outLying airports, the CAD has recently orga-
nized an Airport Engineering Design and Construction Unit.  For large projects,
consultants and contractors are to be engaged, but their work will be super-
vised by this new unit. To date, the unit has completed the reconstruction



ANNEX 3-D
Page 2
of Atbara airport and is now working on New Alfa airport, with equipment pro-
vided by a loan from the Federal Republic of Germany, Additional strengthening
required to make this unit fully self-sufficient is being provided for under
the Domestic Aviation Project, consisting of the services of six experts.
CAD is also receiving technical assistance financed by the UNDP, under which
the electronics section will receive four Operational Assistance (OPAS) tech-
nicians.
Financial Position
6.        CAD is currently financially viable, primarily because its capital
investments are relatively insignificant. After completion of the Domestic
Aviation Project, it will still be viable, but the four project airports
themselves will not be able to pay all of their operating expenses. CAD will
generate sufficient funds internally after project completion for debt ser-
vicing and to replace equipment when required.
Sudan Airways
7.        The Sudan Airways Corporation, owned by the Government, owns and
operates two Boeing B-707-32OG aircraft with wide-body interiors, two Boeing B-737
aircraft, five Fokker F-27 and two DeHavilland DHC-6 aircraft, all maintained
to required airline operational standards. It serves all 20 domestic airports
with Khartoum as the hub. It also provides international services to neigh-
boring African countries, the Middle East and Europe.
January 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation; Property and Operations
Tracks and Structures
1.        The principal route Port Sudan - Atbara - Khartoum is provided with
90 lb/yd (45 kg/m) rail on timber sleepers. The other principal routes
Khartoum - Sennar, Haiya - Kassala - Sennar, and Sennar - Kosti - El Obeid,
have 75 lb/yd (37.5 kg/m) rail also on timber sleepers. Branch lines - to
Damazin , Nyala, Wau and to the north - have lighter second-hand 50 lb/yd
(25 kg/m) rail partly on steel and partly on timber sleepers (see Map and Chart 4).
All tracks are laid on sand or earth as the case may be; there is no stone
'ballasting.
2.        These facilities have so far been adequate for past levels of traffic
and service, but for the future, particularly in view of the rapidly increasing
tonnages, now forecast, arising from the new agricultural developments, have made im-
provements on several sections necessary. Much of the traffic will originate to the
east, south and west of Sennar and will lead to increasing usage of the railwav lines
serving these areas and to heavier traffic on the El Obeid - Sennar - Kassala - Haiva
eastern main line. SRC has drawn up a six-year program of track improvement to take
heavier loading and to increase the traffic carrying capacities of these lines; the
first phase of the work is included in the proposed project.
3.        Wayside crossing stations have also been adequate so far, but on the
routes mentioned additional stations will be needed as numbers of trains increase.
Communications have been poor but a start has been made, under Credit 457-SU, to
install radio HF and VHF equipment at main centers and at the remoter stations
to the south-west. It is planned to complete this program under the proposed
project.
4.        The maintenance of track is wholly manual and has up to now been
generally adequate. With increasing traffic and heavier materials, mechanical
aids will be desirable.
5.        Most of the bridges and culverts on principal lines are in reasonable
state, but all lines suffer interruptions from flash floods during rainy seasons
and work on improved drainage and flood protection needs to be carried out,
especially in the south and the wrest.  Also some bridges on the branch lines
need to be strengthened to enable heavier axle loadings.
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
6.        SRC has recently added 50 new units to its fleet of main line diesel
locomotives to give a total of 15i2 (details at Table 2-A). As a result, availability
has improved but is still rather low (at 70% average, November 1975 - October 1976).



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The older locomotives, some with continuing technical problems and all with
continuing unsatisfactory maintenance standards, have a present availability of
about 60%. If maintenance procedures are not improved, the overall availability
may decline again, as the new locomotives fall due for routine maintenance and
overhaul.
7.        The augmented diesel fleet should, in theory, be adequate to meet all
train requirements, but in fact branch line services, Babanousa - Wau and Sennar -
Damazin, are still operated by steam units; this is mainly due to continuing
problems with the 22 Hitachi (Japan) light locomotives (average availability
November 1975 - October 1976, 37%), but a team from the suppliers is now modi-
fying a first batch of the locomotives and improved performance should begin
to be feasible, hopefully next year.
8.        Rolling stock data, given at Table 2-B, show that SRC now has about
5,850 freight wagons (including about 700 tank wagons) for public service and
some 500 passenger and baggage coaches. Additional freight wagons (out of
305 supplied under Credit 457-SU) and passenger coaches (out of 140 supplied
under a Hungarian credit) are still being put into service. Freight wagons are
mostly steel bodied, while passenger coaches are mostly timber bodied; all new
units have steel bodies. New stronger coupler and roller bearings (in place
of plain friction bearings) are being installed as wagons and coaches pass
through the shops; material is being supplied under Credit 457-SU and com-
pletion of the program is proposed under the new project.
9.        About one-fourth of the wagons and coach underframes are over 40 years
old, but due to the dry climatic conditions deterioration is slight and con-
tinuation in service is possible. The general maintenance standards for
rolling stock, however, need improvement and the recent consultant's report 1/
has made proposals for new improved workshops to be provided at Port Sudan
and Khartoum.
Workshops
10.       The main workshops for motive power and rolling stock are concentrated
at Atbara. The conversion of the Atbara locomotive shops to full diesel main-
tenance has not yet been completed. With the increasing size of the diesel
locomotive fleet, SRC now proposes to establish a new workshop at Sennar.
The whole workshops situation was reviewed in the consultant's report referred
to above; further comment on the workshops and running sheds is given at
Annex 5.
Operations
11.       A summary of statistical data for 1971 - 1976 and a comparison with
1966 is given in Table 3. Passenger traffic and performance have been
1/ Report on a Study of Sudan Railways Corporation - S. Kasy Aiyar, World Bank,
June 1976



ANNEx 4
Page 3
gradually improving, but freight traffic and operations have declined from
197.1 to 1975. SRC has not been able to meet the freight traffic demand,
which has resulted in accumulation of imports at Port Sudan and loss of exports
from the interior. Thns was caused largely by poor diesel locomotive
availability and line failures, but there were also other contributory weak-
nesses in traffic operations.
12.       Following the provision of technical assistance (from Australian
National Railways) under UNDP financing and the introduction of 50 new loco-
motives, the freight traffic performance, in 1976, improved to the level
previously attained in 1971. On the key Port Sudan - Atbara section, im-
ports carried in October 1975 - September 1976 increased by about 20% over
the previous year. Monthly data, given at Table 4, indicate that in the last
six months lost time through locomotive on-line failures declined considerably.
Other data, Table 5, show that with the increasing use of stronger couplers
and roller bearings on wagons, systemwide delays due to coupler and bearing
fracture are also declining. There is still, however, a high level of delays
from accidents and other causes (Table 5) and a continuing high average transit
time for Port Sudan - Atbara (Table 4), about 50% above the timetable transit
time.
13.       The average number of freight trains operated per day in each direction
on the section during the past twelve months (October 1975 - September 1976) was
4.75; the number possible with the main line locomotives allocated should be,
according to the Operating Department, 6 per day. The SRC timetable shows a
maximum of 13 freight trains per day to be programmed and, if a normal average
operating ratio of 70, to allow for delays, accidents, washouts, etc., is
assumed, up to about 10 trains per day should be feasible, with additional
locomotives allocated. Compared with imports in 1975-1977, of about 1.6 million
tons, a service of 6 trains per day either way would give about 2.1 million tons
and 10 trains per day about 2.9 million tons annually.
14.       Overall, the operational targets set under Credit 457-SU have not
been achieved and, while some progress has been made in recent months, the
targets are not likely to be reached for some time yet. Detailed discussions
with SRC showed that, in drawing up the Six-Year Plan for the Railways, im-
proved operational norms have been assumed by SRC. These were reviewed
with the concerned staff and, with some minor modifications, they have been
agreed as the operational targets for 1983.
January 1977



ANNEX 5
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Workshops
1.        Maintenance of diesel locomotives consists of complete overhaul -
every 200,000 km, 10,000 hours or about every 2 to 2.5 years - yearly over-
haul, and monthly, weekly and daily maintenance. In addition, locomotives
have to be repaired in case of mechanical failure. Major repairs and com-
plete overhaul are carried out in the Atbara workshop, and other maintenance
and small repairs in the locomotive home depots, at Atbara, Khartoum, Kassala,
and Babanousa.
2.        Maintenance of rolling stock consists of a complete overhaul every
four years for coaches and every six years for wagons. Maintenance and inspec-
tions of specific components are also carried out at scheduled intervals. Com-
plete overhaul and major repairs for boxcars are done in the Khartoum workshop;
for other wagons, in the Atbara workshop. Other servicing is carried out at
different places; in one of these, Port Sudan, imported wagons are also
assembled.
3.        The new organization of SRC has increased the regional managers' main-
tenance responsibilities, although main overhauls will still be done in Atbara
and Khartoum as before. The shops and home depots surveyed are in reasonable
condition, but lack adequate equipment and space to cope with a growing fleet
of locomotives.
4.        The Atbara workshop for diesel locomotives was initially built for
steam locomotives. It is poorly designed, poorly equipped, and poorly run. The
physical set-up of the workshop is irrational, crowded with equipment, dark and
dusty and generally unsuitable for proper maintenance of diesel locomotives.
Many items of testing equipment are lacking. The quality of maintenance work is
generally poor.
5.        Although generally better than the locomotive workshop, the Atbara
workshop for coaches and wagons is not adequate. It will need complete recon-
ditioning, combined with decentralization of some maintenance operations to
better located workshops in the SRC network.
6.        As a first step toward improving maintenance, a new wagon shop will
be built at Port Sudan to relieve Atbara and make its reorganization possible.
Similarly a new diesel workshop will be built at Sennar, to service all loco-
motives based at Khartoum, Kassala and other southern depots. The shop will
be designed to accommodate 80 locomotives, and possibly 150 later. Current
maintenance approach, which requires the idling of each locomotive until all
repairs are completed, will hopefully be changed to a modern modular approach,
in which faulty sub-assemblies are removed, replaced, and repaired later with-
out holding up the locomotive itself. This new approach should reduce servicing
time for a complete overhaul from about 40 days to a maximum of 10 days, thus
resulting in substantial increase in availability.
January 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
STDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Note on Operational Objectives
Diesel Locomotive Availability-
1.        The availability of diesel locomotives in 1976 was on the average
64%. A detailed study of the different types of locomotives shows that
availability of some old locomotives is only 40% but over 90% for those de-
livered most recently.  The reason for this is mainly inadequate maintenance
which affects locomotives which have been in service for some years. A rea-
sonable overall availability is 80% for heavy main line locomotives and 70%
for other types. This, however, can only be achieved through proper main-
tenance.
2.        The workshop at Atbara is presently unsuitable for maintenance of
d:iesel locomotives and lacks sufficient capacity. The new workshop at Sennar
will have all the facilities necessary for maintaining diesel locomotives in
accordance with modern methods. The workshop will also have a well trained
staff. This will not only result in properly maintained locomotives but also
in less idle time in the workshop.
3.        When approximately 80 locomotives are transferred from Atbara to
Sennar for maintenance in about 1980, the Atbara workshop could also be made
more suitable for maintaining the remaining locomotives. The more systematic
training of staff at the Atbara Central Training School, expected to be fully
operational by January 1979, will also help SRC to perform better maintenance
work at the Atbara workshop.
4.        These four stages - (i) setting up a new workshop at Sennar, (ii) up-
grading the workshop at Atbara, (iii) maintenance in accordance with modern
methods, and (iv) better traiining of staff - will Lake it possible to increase
the availability to at least 80% for heavv main line locomotives and 70% for
other types. It is expected that these will be achieved fully by 1983. Availa-
bilities of 70% and 65% respecti4vely are expected by 1981.
Productivity of Locomotives
5.        The productivity per available locomotive in 1972 was an average of
72,000 km. Productivity decreased in the following years and in 1976 was only
63,000 km for heavy main line locomotives and 54,000 km for light main line
locomotives. The reason for this was deterioration in train operation, caused
partly by deferred track maintenance, partly by slackness in management at all
levels, and partly by the unsatisfactory s gnalling and telecommunication systems.
Deferred track maintenance resulted in speed reduction on increasingly greater
portions of the railway system, plus track more sensitive to adverse weather
conditions, heavy rains, sand-storms, etc. Unsatisfactory signalling and tele-
communication systems created train delavs and interrupted train operations.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Investment in track rehabilitation including rerailing, resleepering and
protection work will improve the speed in some sections of the railway system.
Investment in signalling and telecommunication systems would also improve train
operation. A productivity level of 100,000 km for heavy main line locomotives
and 75,000 km for light main line locomotives is realistic and should be achieved by
1983. By 1981, productivity is expected to be 75,000 km and 60,000 km respectively.
Availability of Wagons
6.        The availability of wagons has increased from 90% in 1972 to 91%
in 1976. The availability is satisfactory but can still be improved somewhat
to about 92% by the end of 1983 with the completion of the investment program
in new couplers and roller bearings in the new project. Without the invest-
ments, the availability of wagons will probably worsen.
Average Wagon Turnaround Time
7.        The average turnaround time for general freight wagons was 13.1 days
in 1972. The turnaround time has gradually worsened, and was 16.5 days in 1976.
Poor train operation, for the reasons mentioned above, poor supervision of
loading and unloading, and poor follow-up of wagon utilization, explain the
deterioration in wagon turnaround time. It is expected that the turnaround time
will improve to about 13 days by 1981 and at least 11 to 12 days by 1983, because
of the regionalization of management, increased speed in some sections of the rail-
way, less interruptions in train operation, and improved train operation in general.
8.        The turnaround time for oil tank wagons is expected to improve mar-
ginally from 9.2 days in 1976 to 9.0 days in 1983, also as a result of the
project.
Average Wagon Load
9.        As a result of staff training and the introduction into service of
larger, new wagons, the average load per wagon is expected to increase. The
average load was 23 tons in 1972 and 24 tons in 1976. It is reasonable to
assume an average load of 25 tons for 1983.
Productivity per Available Wagon
10.       The productivity per available wagon was 540,000 ton-km in 1972,
decreasing to 520,000 ton-km in 1976. Improved train operation will result in
shorter turnaround time and increase wagon utilization. The average load per
wagon is also expected to increase. It is therefore considered realistic to
assume productivity levels of 595,000 ton-km by 1981 and 650,000 ton-km by 1983.
Staff Productivi.y
11.       Staff productivity was 130,000 traffic units per employee in 1972 and
125,000 in 1976. SRC is overstaffed for the present traffic handled, and manage-
ment is well aware of this situation. With the forecast traffic growth and SRC's
policy of restricting recruitment, staff productivity levels of 180,000 traffic
units per employee by 1981 and 220,000 by 1983 are considered realistic.
February 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SRC Freight Traffic Forecasts - Explanatory Note
I. ENTRODUCTION
1.        The forecast is based on economic data available as at the end of
1976 in the various agencies of the Government of Sudan involved in the pre-
paration of the Six-Year Development Plan. It reflects expected changes in
the pattern of traffic arising from the implementation of the plan and reali-
zation of its underlying policy goals. The forecasts also take into account
the prospective and imminent diversion of white petroleum products from rail
to pipeline on the Port Sudan - Khartoum route and the effects of road compe-
tition on high-value, low-volume traffic, particularly import traffic, on the
Railways.
2.        Because of the planned and anticipated reduction or elimination of
the country's dependence on imports for such items as wheat and textiles,
and the emergence of Sudan as a major sugar exporter, both export and local
rail traffic are expected to increase more rapidly than import traffic. Some
detailed notes follow.
3.        The Bank mission reviewed SRC's original traffic forecasts and sug-
gested a number of changes, mostly in the downward direction, which were
accepted by SRC as reasonable. For appraisal purposes, past experience of
the Railways' actual traffic in comparison with forecasts indicated a 15 -20%
lag.  A 20% lag has been assumed as highly like49 in the future, again with
the tacit agreement of SRC, and forms the basis of the economic and financial
evaluation.
II. TO PORT SUDAN
Cotton
4.        Short Staple:  Production of short staple cotton during 1976
amounted to 114,000 tons of which 8,000 tons were for local comsumption and
106,000 tons for export. The amount actually railed to Port Sudan was 71,000
tons. Thus about one-third of the total production is stored upcountrv.
This ratio is expected to be maintained in the future. The year 1978 marks
the beginning of the first stage of the Rahad Project with an estimated pro-
duction of 21,000 tons of cotton. A similar quantity will be produced in the
second stage which will start in 1979. Estimates of railed quantities
allow for the expected increase in local consumption of the commodity to about
34,000 tons as a result of the planned establishment of textile factories
in Sudan.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        Long Staple:  Present agricultural policy aims at reducing the
area allocated for long staple cotton. This area has been reduced in
1975 by about 400,000 feddans which were transferred to the production
of wheat and short staple cotton. To assess future production and export
of the commodity, a growth rate of 5% per year i3 assumed attributable
solely to increase in yield per feddan.
Cotton Seed
6.        Quantities transported during the years 1976 to 1978 repre-
sent the amounts used by the edible oil processing mill at Port Sudan. From
1978, which marks the beginning of the production of the first stage of
the Rahad Project, the amounts represent the surplus after subtracting the
quantities required locally.
Groundnuts
7.        The increase in the volume of exports reflects the increase in
production as a result of the Rahad Project.
Sesame
8.        The increase in annual production is attributable to the expected
increase in productivity per feddan. Local consumption is estimated at
180,000 tons for both processing as edible oil and for other food purposes.
Oilcake
9.        Due to the expansion in the production of cotton and groundnuts
and the setting up of several edible oil processing mills, production of
oilcake is expected to increase considerably. Thus amounts exported after
satisfying local needs will also show considerable increase.
Maize and Millets
10.       The production of dura (maize) is subject to wide fluctuations
since it depends on rainfall for water. Also the amounts exported depend
on Government policy and conditions in world markets. For planning purposes,
exports have been estimated at 120,000 tons annually, with deficits in lean
years covered by surpluses from previous years.
Wheat
11.       As a result of the increase in the areas allocated for the production
of wheat in the Gezira and Khashm El Girba schemes, the country is soon expected
to achieve self-sufficiency in wheat. The increase in the consumption of the
commodity reflects the increase in urbanization and standards of living. The
quantity to be moved to Port Sudan is about 30,000 tons to meet the estimated
needs of the Red Sea Hills Province.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Sugar
12.       As a result of the construction of several sugar mills, the country
will attain self-sufficiency in sugar in 1977. It is expected that a
small surplus will be exported in that year. This amount will increase as
these projects are completed and become fully operational.
Molasses
13.       Export of this commodity is expected to increase as a result of the
construction of several sugar mills.
III. FROM PORT SUDAN
Petroleum Products
14.       With the completion of the pipeline, the railway will no longer
carry bulk white petroleum products from Port Sudan, with the exception of
quantities destined for the Kassala region. Black oils will continue to be
railed from Port Sudan to the interior of the country. Estimates of bulk
petroleum traffic have been prepared by the Ministry of Industry and the oil
companies based on forecast requirements.
Fertilizers and Insecticides
15.       Imports of these commodities will increase from 1978 as a result
of the expansion in the agricultural sector and particularly the completion
of the Rahad Project.
Jute Goods
16.       With the completion of the Kenaf projects at Abu Na'ama in 1976 and
at El Tong in 1977, the country will be self-sufficient in the production of
sacking. Thus jute goods imports are not anticipated from 1978 onwards.
Timber
17.       Imports of timber are expected to increase as a result of the
execution of the various development projects and other construction activi-
ties.
Asphalt
18.       The increase in the import of asphalt is the result of planned
increase in road construction work. This is in addition to the growing
maintenance needs of paved highways and city roads and streets.
Rice, Wheat and Flour
19.       These are not included in imports from 1977, as this year marks
the beginning of the stage of self-sufficiency in their production.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
Sugar
20.       Sugar imports will be eliminated from 1978 since the country
will become self-sufficient in the commodity.
Cement
21.       The Development Plan includes the construction of two cement
factories in the eastern part of the country. The first plant is located
some 60 km to the north of Port Sudan and is expected to go into production
in 1977 with a capacity of 400,000 tons, of which 300,000 tons will be
exported and 100,000 tons is for local use. The second plant will be con-
structed at Derudeib with an initial capacity of 0.5 million tons annually;
production will start around mid-1978. Cement traffic from Port Sudan re-
presents the quantities railed from the Port Sudan factory to the different
local markets.
IV. LOCAL TRAFFIC
Petroleum Products
22.       With the expected completion of the pipeline project, the Railways
will concentrate on the distribution of bulk white petroleum products from
Khartoum to the west and south and from Atbara to the north.
Maize
23.       Since maize (dura) is a staple food item for the majority of the
population, the increase in the local transport of the commodity reflects
the increase in population.
Wheat and Flour
24.       From 1976, which marks the beginning of the stage of self-
sufficiency in the production of wheat, the local transport of these two
commodities involves movements from production to consumption areas. The
estimates are based on present average per capita consumption and the ex-
pected increases in per capita income and consequently in consumption.
Sugar
25.       The local transport of sugar will increase as a result of the
country's attainment of self-sufficiency in its production.
Cement
26.       The increase in the local transport of cement is attributed to the
execution of various development projects and other construction activities.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Sacking
27.       The local transport of sacking will increase considerably as a
result of the completion of the Kenaf projects at Abu Na'ama and El Tong.
V. LIVESTOCK
28.       A steady increase in livestock traffic is anticipated, as several
projects to exploit the country's livestock potential are in various stages
of preparation/implementation.
VI. SERVICE
29.       Service traffic reflects estimated operational requirements for
fuel and spares as well as the requirements for new capital projects such
as rail and sleeper renewal, etc.
January 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Notes on Proposed Project: 1978 - 1980
I. TRACK
(i) Haiya - Kassala- Sennar - Kosti- El Obeid
1.          This line, 1240 km long, is provided with 751b/ yd (37.5kg/m)
rail on timber sleepers. The sleepers were laid in the Haiva-Sennar (800km)
section in 1957-1960 and in the Sennar - El Obeid (440 km) section In 1954-1957.
Their life to date has thus been 16-22 years. The usual life for timber
sleepers (locally pressure impregnated with creosote) is given by SRC as
15-20 years. The number replaced in the period has been about 277,000 (or
about 220km), which gives an average of about 14,000 per year; if a full
annual replacement basis had been adopted the number needed would have
been                                                      1240km x 1274
17 years average
= 1,580.000
17
= 93,000 per year
2.          The majority of the sleepers are now in poor condition.
Although the traffic carried on the line has up to now been comparatively
light, a major part of the forecast increase in export traffic from the
south and west will use the route. By 1983, the traffic on this route
is expected to be about 2 million tons per year. To carry the increased
traffic adequately and safely, the timber sleeper support of the track
should be in good condition. SRC plans to replace about 1,090 track km
of sleepers over a six-year period. During the first three years covered
by the proposed project, replacement of sleepers over 500km is proposed.
3.          Details of materials and costs for resleepering are given
later in this annex.
(ii) Khartoum- Sennar and Abu Zabad - Babanousa
4.          The existing track material on the lines from El Rahad to
Babanousa and on to Wau in the south and Nyala in the west, consists
of used light 501b/yd (25kg/m) rail laid partly on steel and partly on
timber sleepers, all on sand and earth ballast. The rail and steel sleepers
are up to 70 years old; there are problems with loose fastenings and occa-
sional rail breakages. The track material would be adequate for a few years for
present axle loads (using light locomotives and restricted loading of freight
wagons), slow speeds (40 kph maximum and 25 kph average) and traffic level
of about three freight trains each way daily between El Rahad and Babanousa,



ANNEX 8
Page 2
but will not be able to carry the future traffic, expected to increase
from about 200,000 tons per year now in the export direction to about 400,000 tons
per year in 1984 and further thereafter. The track will have to be upgraded to
carry heavier trains at higher axle loads and at greater speeds, and SRC proposes
to relay with second hand 75 lb/yd (37.5kg/m) rail on timber sleepers, instead of
providing more and longer passing loops now, with track upgrading in a few
years' time.
5.          SRC has at present about 300 track km of used 751b/yd rail in
stock released from the relaying with 901b/yd rail in the Dast of the
Port Sudan - Atbara - Khartoum line. It has already completed relaying
30km from El Rahad towards Babanousa but is awaiting the supply of further
timber to proceed further. SRC intends to complete on its own relaying up
to Abu Zahad, a distance of 160km, during 1977-1978. The continuation
of the work up to Babanousa, another 194km, is proposed for inclusion in
the project.
6.          The total of 324km of rail relaying remaining to be done, plus
additional track for station yards and sidings, cannot be met from the SRC
stock of 751b/yd rail. In addition SRC wishes to retain an adequate supply
of 751b/yd rail on hand for sidings for industrial and agricultural develop-
ments already under way and others planned for the Six-Year Plan. SRC, therefore,
proposes to relay 150 km of the Khartoum-Sennar section with 90 lb/yd (45kg/m) rail
as this section now carries the heaviest traffic, after Port Sudan - Atbara - Khar-
toum, and will also carry in future a portion of the increasing export traffic.  The
opportunity will be taken to provide new timber sleepers on this section and to make
a start with stone ballasting and some rail joint welding to assess the benefits
of higher speeds and lower maintenance costs. The 751b/yd rail so released
will then be used for the completion of the relaying to Babanousa.
7.          Any excess 751b/yd rail can be reused on the Sennar - Damazine
branch where the present track material is 501b/yd, in poor condition, and
is scheduled by SRC for relaying during the second half of the six-year
plan.
8.          Details of materials and costs for relaying 751b/yd and 901b/yd
track are given later in this annex.
(iii) Other items
9.          Track maintenance:  This has been wholly manual until now but
with increasing traffic and heavier materials, mechanised aids for trans-
portation, material handling and maintenance works will be desirable.
Items proposed are motor trollies, bulldozers, mobile cranes, power tools
such as rail saws and drills, and machines for coach screwing, fishbolt
tightening, resleepering, etc..
10.         Signal ling and comaunications:  Signalling will consist mainly
of double wire installations (used as standard by SRC) to existing and
additional crossing stations. Communication installations will be mostly (a) an
extension of the VHF radio system (at present being installed Khartoum - Port Sudan
and Haiya - Kassala) to Kassala - Sennar - Khartoum and El Obeid, (b) improved



ANNEX 8
Page 3
station-to-station connections on the Wau and Nyala branch lines and
(c) teleprinters to transmit traffic data over the radio network.
11.         Additional crossing stations:  Required to increase capacity
on the eastern main line, and also from Sennar to Babanousa and on the
branch lines to Wau and Nyala. During the proposed project, priority will
be given to additional station sites on the sections to be resleepered and
relaid so that the work can be carried out at the same time.
12.         Also, while resleepering and relaying, additional bridges and
culvert openings will be provided and protection works will be constructed
where past flooding or washouts have indicated these to be desirable and
necessary. Strengthening of some bridges on the branch lines to carry the
heavier axle loads, possibly with keavier track matexial, will also be
necessary.
II. WORKSHOPS
13.         The first priority is to provide a new diesel locomotive
workshop at Sennar so as to institute proper major overhaul routines,
improved work methods and new staff management techniques, for locomotives
servinR mainlv the southern part of the system. Details as regards the
size of the shop and the facilities to be provided have to be agreed with
SRC. The mission believes that a smaller building using a component
substitution approach would be more suitable than SRC's plan for a large
building holding more locomotives out of service while components are
being prepared. The proposed project includes machine tools and initial
major component stocks for the workshop.
14.         Provision is also made for a new wagon shop at Port Sudan to
replace the unsatisfactory facilities at Atbara, as recommended by the
consultant's report referred to earlier.
III. EQUIPMENT
15.        No additional main-line diesel locomotives should theoretically
be required in the project period if availability (and also utilization)
can be improved (Annex 9). However, by 1980 the first 15 of the English
Electric locomotives and the 15 Cockerill Ougree units will be about
20 years old. The latter, although modified subsequently, have never
been satisfactory under Sudan conditions. Therefore, a start should
be made with replacements and 10 are proposed in the project. Replaced
locomotives could still be retained in service on light duties, if the
volume of traffic and operations should require this. In order to increase
the availability of the other locomotives, spare parts for these are also
included in the project.
16.        Freight wagon requirements to meet forecast traffic to 1983
are estimated in Annex 9. For the time being, 400 additional



ANNEX 8
Page 4
wagons are proposed in the new project to meet the minimum requirements
to 1980, assuming a slippage of UI) to 20% on the SRC traffic forecast.
If the slippage is not as large as assumed, there would be good reason
to provide more wagons later in the project period.
17.         SRC is pursuing a program of providing stronger couplers and
replacing plain bearings by roller bearings on wagons and coaches. Origi-
nally it was intended to confine the change-over to stock less than 20
years old, but in view of their long life in Sudan's dry climate, and
the need to avoid unnecessary investment in new stock, SRC is substituting
couplers and roller bearings on all stock used on through train operations;
the number of on-line fractures from broken couplers and overheated
bearings is as a result declining considerably (Table 5). Provision is,
therefore, made under the project for a completion of the program.
IV. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
18.         Construction of a new central training school is being started
under the third railway project, with the first batch of equipment being
supplied from Credit 457-SU.    Completion of the classrooms and equipment
is proposed under the project (leaving residential accommodation to follow
at a later stage). In addition, technical assistance to SRC is included
for the initial establishment of the school, preparation of syllabuses, and training
of instructors for operational and mechanical maintenance classes.
19.         Provision is also made in the proposed project for other tech-
nical assistance, for (i) Sennar workshop design,(ii) testing section for
locomotive shops and running sheds, (iii) radio communications and communi-
cations maintenance,and (iv) workshop staff management.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
SRC - Cost of Resleepering 75 lb/yd Track
A. Per Km. - LS (000)
Local
Unit   Quantity Cost  Tax  Total Foreign  Total
Hardwood sleepers
- imported                        No.    1019      -    1.29  1.29   4.29    5.58
- local                           "        255    2.99   -    2.99    -        2.99
Bearing plates -/                    "       1274     -    0.34  0.34   1.15    1.49
Screw spikes    1/                   "       2548     -    0.21  0.21   0.70    0.91
Local materials                      Sum      -      0.65   -    0.65    -        0.65
Labor                                Km.      1      0.28   -    0.28    -         0.28
Total for resleepering per km.                     3.92  1.84  5.76   6.14   11.90
B. 500 Km. - 'S (million)
Complete resleeper                   Km.   500       1.96  0.92  2.88   3.07    5.95
1! New units only. In addition an equal number of second-hand units will
be used.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
SRC - Cost of Relaying with Second-hand 75 lb/yd Rail
A. Per km. - ES (000)
Local
Unit   Quantity Cost  Tax  Total  Foreign  Total
75 lb/yd second-hand rail        Km.        1    2.00   -    2.00    -          2.00
Hardwood sleepers
- imported                       No.    1019       -    1.29  1.29   4.29       5.58
- local                                   255    2.99   -    2.99    -          2.99
Bearing plates 1/                 "      1274      -    0.34  0.34   1.15       1.49
Screw spikes 1/                          2548      -    0.21  0.21   0.70       0.91
Local materials                  Km.        1    0.08   -    0.08    -          0.08
Allow for raising and
widening banks                             1    5.50   -    5.50    -          5.50
Allow for points and
crossings                       Sum      -      0.07  0.07  0.14   0.18        0.32
Total for relaying per km                     10.64  1.91 12.55   6.32    18.87
B.  194 km. Abu. Zabad/Babanousa - iS (million)
Relay track                      km.      194    2.06  0.37  2.43   1.23    3.66
Other works                                      0.92  0.02  0.94   0.10    1.04
Total for 194 km                               52.98  0.39  3.37   1.33    4.70
1/ New units only. In addition an equal number of second-hand units
will be used.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
SRC - Cost of Relaying in 90 lb/yd New Material
A. Per Km. - ES (000)
Local
Unit  Quantity Cost  Tax  Total  Foreign Total
90 lb/yd rail                    Ton      90     -   4.33  4.33   13.68  18.01
90 lb. fishplates                No.    364      -    0.30  0.30    0.94   1.24
it    fishbolts                         728     -    0.07  0.07    0.22   0.29
Hardwood sleepers
- imported 100%                   "    1274      -    1.54  1.54    5.60   7.14
Rail/sleeper fasteners          Sets   2548       -    2.03  2.03    7.38   9.41
Stone Ballast                   cu.m   1300    6.70   -    6.70        -     6.70
Labour to lift, relay
and ballast                    Km.        1    5.50   -    5.50       _     5.50
Allow for formation works        "         1    3.32   -    3.32       -      3.32
Allow for points and
crossings                      Sum       -     0.07   0.07 0.14    0.18   0.32
Total for relaying per km.                   15.59   8.34 23.q3  28.00  51.93
B. 150 km. Khartoum/Sennar (part) - bS (million)
Complete relaying               km.      150    2.33   1.26  3.59   4.20   7.79
May 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Locomotive and Freight Wagon Requirements to 1983
I. Main Line Diesel Locomotives
Present Fleet    -      Heavy     -      English Electric           =      65
-     Cockerill Ougree           =      15
-     Henschel                   =      20
-     General Electric            =     20
Sub-Total                    120
Light     -     Hitachi                     =      22
-     General Electric           =      10
Sub-Total                     32
Total                        152
Deduct for passenger trains (18 heavy and 5 light)                  =      23
Balance available for freight                                       =    129
Availability assumed for 1983 (per Table 6):
Heavy main line                              =    80%
Light main line                              -    70%
Utilisation assumed:
Heavy main line                              =  100,000 km per year
Light main line                              =   75,000 km per year
Feasible locomotive km on freight trains per year:
= 102 x 0.8 x 100,000                        =   8.16 million
+ 27 x 0.7 x 75,000                          -   1.42 million
9.58 million



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Performance - net ton km and gross ton km per locomotive km
Freight         Freight                 Freight    Gross ton
net ton km   gross ton km   Gross/    Loco km         km per
(million)       (million)        net    (t000)        Loco km
Actuals
1971                    2,786          5,731           2.05     5,917         969
1972                    2,752          5,702          2.07      5,586       1,021
1973                    2,625          5,575          2.12      5,477       1,018
1974                    2,427          4,935           2.03     5,306          930
1975                    2,275          4,807           2.11     5,346          899
1976                    2,756          5,294           1.92     5,914         895
Average
1971-1976                                              2.05                    950
Forecast -/
1977                    34100          6,355           2.05      6,689         950
1978                    3,325           6,816          2.05      7,175         950
1979                    3,510          7,196           2.05     7,575          950
1980                    3,655          7,493           2.05     7,887          950
1981                    3,953          8,104           2.05     8,531          950
1982                    4,250          8,713           2.05     9,172          950
1983                    4,505           9,235          2.05     9,721          950
1/ SRC Traffic Forecast less 20%
With the forecast improved availability and utilisation, the existing
number of main line locomotives should be able to meet traffic needs until
almost 1983. However, if actual traffic is higher, additional locomotives
will be needed.
If traffic is, say, only 10% below the SRC forecast, additional
locomotives required in 1983 (assume average utilisation of 87,000 km per year)
-    10,936,000 - 9,580,000                              1-356.000
87,000                                        87,000
16
Add for maintenance (80% availability)                     4
Total                              20



ANNEX 9
Fage 3
.Alternatively, if availability and utilisation do not improve,
then freight 1c omoLive km with existing fleeL
=    102 x 0.7 x 70,000                =          5.0 million
+     27 x 0.6 x 70,000                           1 113 million
Total                          6.13 million
Number of additional locomotives then required for 1983
10,936,000 - 6,130,000                       4,806,000
70,000                                  70,000
69
Add for maintenance (70% availability))             29
Total      =                  98
Increased cost of investment at US$800,000 (ES 320,000) plus taxes (60%) each
-    (98 - 20) x IS 512,000                          E - S  40 million
II. General Freight Wagons
(i)       Actual Performance 1976:
General    Oil      Total
Number of wagons in fleet            4,950      700     5,650
Deduct for maintenance 9%              440       60        500
Balance available for traffic        4,510      640     5,150
Deduct for SRC service (average)       160
Deduct for livestock                   150  /
Available for general traffic        4,200
1/ 50% use of the 300 livestock wagons assumed for general traffic.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Revenue ton km                                2,708 million
Deduct oil traffic
= 543,000 tons x 850 km  = 462 million
Deduct livestock traffic
=  20,000 tons x 500 km  =  10 million        472 million
Balance general traffic             2,236 million
Productivity per general freight wagon
available                               =     533,000 ton km
Number of wagons required                 =   4,196
(ii)    Future Requirements up to 1983:
Assuming gradual progress towards the operating targets for 1982/83
(Table 6), the average loads and turnaround times (agreed with SRC) are:
1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983
Average loads (tons)                23        23       24        24       25        25
Average turnaround (days)           15        14       13        12.5     12.0      11.5
Average haul (km)                  950       900      850       850      850       850
Average distance per day (km)       63        64       66        68       70        72
(a) For 1980 (end first three-year period);
Freight net ton km forecast (SRC)                =   4,556 million
Deduct service and livestock                     =      192 million
4,364 million
Deduct bulk liquids - import  469,000 x 850 km          399 million
- local   405,000 x 600 km        243 million
- export  110,000 x 850 km         94 million
Total   984,000 tons            736 million



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Balance general freighLt traffic                 =   3,628 million
Reduce for 20% slippage on forecast                -    726 million
2,902 million
Forecast productivity per general freight wagon
=  24 tons x 66 km x 365 days                    =   578,000 ton km
Number of wagons required  = 2,902 milliQn           =   5,021
578,000
Add for maintenance (92% availability)               =     437
5,458
Deduct-available 1976  (4,950 - 310)                 -   4,640
-  new in service 1977                            =      300
Total available in 1977       4,940
Additional wagons required                           =     518
(b) For 1983 (end second three-year period):
Revenue net ton km forecast (SRC)                 -   5,624 million
Deduct service and livestock (approx.)            =      255 million
5,369 million
Deduct bulk liquids - import 565,000 x 850 km   =        480 million
- local  470,000 x 600 km   =       282 million
- export 110,000x 850 km   =         94 million
Total  1,145,000 tons               856 million
Balance general freight traffic            =   4,513 million



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Reduce for 20% slippage on forecast
=  4,513 - 903                                  =   3,610 million ton km
Number of wagons required = 3,610 mi lion         =   5,554
650,000
Add for maintenance (92% availability)                   483
6,037
Deduct - available 1977                                4,940
Additional wagons required                        =   1,097
(iii)   Alternatively - if operational performance with wagons remains at about
present level, that is:
Productivity per general wagon                            = 523,000 ton km
Number of wagons required in 1983 (with 20%
slippage on SRC forecast) =  3,610 million              =   6,902
523,000
Add for maintenance (92% availability)                    =     600
7,502
Deduct - available 1977                                       4940
Additional wagons required                                    2,562
Increased cost of investment at US$30,000 (ES 12,000)
plus taxes (45%) each =  (2,562 - 1,097) x IS 17,400 '   ?S 27 million
III. Tank Wagons
bulk Liquids                                            Year
1978      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983
Tonnage forecast (SRC)
-  imports-light oil  (000)   77          85         93        100       107        115
black oil  (000)   91          90        83         73         59         42
diesel oil (000)  225         252       283        319        361       408
total   (000)  393        427        459        492       527        565
-  local - light oil  (000)  365         385        405        425       445        470
-  export -molasses   (000)  110         110        110        110       110        110
Total                      868        922        974     1,027      1,082      1,145
Average load (tons)
-  imports - light oil          37        37         37         37        37         37
heavy oil         30         30        30         30         30        30
-  local   - light oil          30        30         30         30        30         30
-  export -  molasses           30        30         30         30        30         30



ANN   9
Page 7
.Year
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982      1983
Average turnaround (days)
-  import                       9          9         9          9          9          9
-  local                        6.5        6,5       6.5        6.5        6.5        6.5
-  export                       9          9         9          9          9          9
Number of trips per year
- import                       40.5       40.5      40.5       40.5       40.5       40.5
- local                        56         56        56         56         56         56
- export                       40.5       40.5      40.5       40.5       40.5       40.5
Tonnage per car per year
- imports - light oil       1,498      1,498     1,498      1,498      1,498     1,498
- heavy oil      1,215      1,215     1,215      1,215      1,215      1,215
- local                     1,680     1,680      1,680      1,680      1,680     1,680
- export                    1,215     1,215      1,215      1,215      1,215     1,215
Number of tank wagons needed
- import - light oil           51         57        62         67         72         77
- heavy oil         258        282        301       323        346        370
- local                      217        229        241        253       265        280
- export                       91        91         91         91         91        91
Total                      617        659        695        734       774        820
Add for maintenance
(92% availability)        54         57         60        65         67         71
671       716        755        799       841        8
Less slippage on traffic
forecast -10%             67         72         76        80         84         89
Balance required              604       644        679        719        757       802
Less slippage on traffic
forecast - 20%            67         72         76        80         84         89
Balance required              537       572        603        639       673        713
Tank wagons in fleet
1977                        700       700        700        700       700        700
Number of additional wagons
required:   10% slippage    0           0          0         19        57        102
20% slippage    0          0          0          0         0         13
Aril 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Social-Technical Study of Workshop Organization
Outline Terms of Reference
Background
The Sudan Railways Corporation is the major provider of transport
in Sudan. With a work force of over 30,000, it carries some 3.0 million tons
of freight per year -- about two-thirds of all long distance freight -- over
an average distance of 850 km, and one-half of all passenger traffic.
The efficient running of the Railways is vital to the Sudanese
economy, as no alternative is available to most parts of the country for
heavy or bulky cargo. So far, however, the Railway has had difficulty
achieving satisfactory standards of maintenance. Part of the cause is con-
sidered to stem from work relationships which are not conducive to high
standards.
To alleviate these difficulties, the Railway has decided to focus
on improving maintenance through a two-pronged strategy:
(1)   a new maintenance workshop will be built at Sennar;
(2)   a different work organization, meeting the objectives
outlined below, will be designed for the new workshop.
The work force of this workshop will probably be about
500.
Objectives
The consultants shall help design and implement a work organization
for the Sennar workshop which shall aim at the following objectives:
(i)   achieve improvements in productivity at Sennar
over that achieved hitherto in Sudan;
(ii)   improve quality of maintenance work;
These objectives shall be achieved through improving staff morale and com-
mitment to work and increasing the feeling of responsibility among staff.
Scope of Work
The work shall be carried out in three phases. Prior to each
phase, the consultants shall obtain both approval from SRC management and



ANNEX 10
Page 2
support from the labor unions. If a climate of goodwill and active support
could not be established, management shall be free to terminate the study.
Phase 1 - Diagnosis
(a)   The consultants shalll assess, in association with
representatives of management and labor unions, the
causes for the present low productivity and poor
quality of maintenance work, with special focus on
the present form of work organization, incentive
systems and staff response to them, and general
organization climate.
(b)   The consultants shall present to management and
labor unions -- through a Steering
Committee to be set up for the study -- their
findings and recommendations.
Phase 2 - Organization Design and Implementation Planning
(a)   With the participation of SRC management and labor
unions, the consultants shall propose alternative
forms of work organization in line with the study's
objectives, findings and recommendations. Among
the alternatives, the consultants shall evaluate
the merits of an autonomous work group approach,
(c.f. Trist's study in the Durham coal-mines, Rice's
study at Ahmedabad, etc.) which would appear suitable
in view of the deep feelings of egalitarianism in
Sudanese society, and of supervisors' reluctance to
assume their role. The consultants, however, should
not limit themselves to this single approach without
considering alternatives.
(b)   After SRC management and the labor unions have se-
lected one form of work organization from among the
proposed alternatives, the consultants shall prepare
the detailed design, an implementation plan, an
incentive system and so forth to support the new
scheme.
Phase 3 - Implementation and Follow-up
(a)   The consultants will assist SRC in staffing the new
workshop, will provide necessary training, staff
b.riefing, etc. to ensure motivation and willingness
to participate in the new approach, and, finally,
will assist in the start-up of the workshop.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(b) The consultants will periodically monitor the working
of the shop to determine whether corrective actions
are required. This monitoring shall not take place
less than three times a year, for at least two years.
Special Requirements
The management and organization behavior specialists of the
University of Khartoum shall participate in all phases of the study, to
provide the necessary continuity of effort and knowledge of local conditions.
The expatriate consultants shall assume the major responsibility at the
diagnosis and design stage, and shall later assist in the implementation.
SRC shall provide two staff members,one specialist in mechanical
engineering and one in training, to ensure adequate communication between
the Railway and the consultants in all phases of the study.
Reporting Requirements
(To be agreed)
January 1977



A}NEX 11
Page 1
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
I. Track
Advertisement for bids for
-  track material                                            Aug. 1977  1/
-  material for protection work                              Aug. 1977
-  track maintenance equipment                               Aug. 1977
-  signals and communications                                Aug. 1977
Placing of orders for
-  signals and communications                                Dec. 1977
-  track material                                            Jan/May 1978 2/
-  material for protection work                              Jan/May 1978 3]
-  track maintenance equipment                               Jan. 1978
Protection works and bridge strengthening                    Nov. 1977
Resleepering Haiya-El Obeid starts                           Jan. 1979
Signalling and communications installation starts            Jan. 1979
Relaying Khartoum-Sennar starts                              Jan. 1979
Relaying Abu Zabad-Babanousa starts                          Jan. 1980
All track work completed                                     Jun. 1982
II. Workshops
Recruiting of consultant for workshop design, construction
and start-up                                               Aug. 1977
- listing of components needed for locomotive
maintenance                                              Nov. 1977
Design of workshop for locomotives and wagons
completed                                                  Dec. 1977
Advertisement for bids for machinery and equipment for
the new workshops                                         Mar. 1978
Inquiry for bids for locomotive components                   Dec. 1978
1/ Except for track material for Abu Zabad-Babanousa which will have to
be deferred three months.
2/ Material financed by Kuwait, Arab and Abu Dhabi Funds will be ordered in the later
part of the period.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Building of locomotive and wagon workshops starts            Jul. 1978
Ordering of maciinery and equipment for workshops            Sep. 1978
Ordering of locomotive components                            Jan. 1979
Delivery of machinery and equipment completed                Jul. 1979
Delivery of locomotive components completed                  Jun. 1980
Production start at wagon workshop                           Apr. 1980
Production start at locomotive workshop                      Jun. 1980
III. Equipment
Advertisement for bid for
- locomotives and spare parts                                Aug. 1977
- freight wagons                                             Aug. 1977
- roller bearings and couplers                               Aug. 1977
Contracts awarded for
- locomotive spare parts                                     Feb. 1978
- roller bearings and couplers                               Feb. 1978
- freight wagons                                            May  1978
- locomotives                                                May  1978
Roller bearings and couplers delivered and
installation starts                                       Jan. 1979
Locomotive spare parts delivered                             Feb. 1980
Freight wagons delivered and assembled                       Sep. 1980
Locomotives delivered                                        Sep. 1980
Installation of roller bearings and couplers completed    Jan. 1981
IV. Training and Technical Assistance
Design of training school - second phase concluded           Sep. 1977
Advertisement for bids for equipment                         Oct. 1977
Building work starts                                         Jun. 1978



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Contracts for equipment awarded                              Feb. 1978
Recruiting of technical assistance for
training school                                            Jun. 1978
Equipment delivery completed                                 Dec. 1978
Training school taken into service fully                     Jun. 1979
May 1977



SUDAN                                    ANNEX 12
Page 1
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Financial Assumptions
1.        Revenues and expenses are stated in a constant monetary unit (1977).
2.        Capital costs include price contingencies.
3.        It is assumed that the proposed project will be implemented during
the three-year period 1978 to 1980. Investments required to meet the
growing traffic demand beyond 1980 are included in the projections. Their
estimated costs are set out below:
'LS '000      US$ '000
1981             10,194         25,485
1982             21,761         54,403
1983             23,224         58,060
1984             22,285         55,713
1985             15,083         37,707
1986              9,903         24,758
1987              2,997          7,492
105,447        263,618
4.        The foreign costs of the foregoing have been treated as 20 yearJloans,
including a grace period of 4 years, with interest at 8%. Included in the
costs are customs duties of LS 16.75 million which have been deferred.
5.        Salaries and wages have been taken at the 1977 level and adjusted
for increases which will result from the regionalization and the increase in
retirement age from 55 to 60. In addition, labor costs related to rolling
stock maintenance have been increased for that part of the fleet not affected by
the workshop facilities provided by the proposed project. To determine the
amount of the increase, actual maintenance costs were examined for the period
1971-76, from which the future trend has been projected.
6.        Parts usage for locomotives and wagons has been calculated on a
projected kilometer basis using the 1976 actual cost per kilometer as a base
(adjusted to 1977 price levels). In addition, parts costs related to rolling
stock maintenance have been increased in the same manner as the labor costs.
7.        Fuel consumption has been calculated on a locomotive kilometer basis.
8.        The portion of miscellaneous operating expense which applies to
rolling stock has been related to the forecast kilometer usage. The balanee
has been assumed to remain constant.
9.        Accounts Receivable represent 45 days billings.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
10.       Inventories for 1978 and 1979 include track material on hand
which should be in place by 1980. From 1981 on the inventory represents
1-1/2 years' requirements plus iS 6.0 million in transit.
11.       Trade Accounts Payable are expected to rise in direct relation to the
increased need for parts and fuel.
12.       Commitments represent the difference between orders placed for
investment requirements and disbursements made.
May 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Public Sector Investment in Transport Sector
(LS million)
Annual Average          Annual Average           Annual Average          Estimate
Mode                    1966-1970                1971-1974                1975-1976               1977
Railways                         3.2                      2.6                     13.7                  16.0
Roads 1/                         0.4                      3.0                     22.0                  29.0
River Transport                  0.1                      0.4                      2.2                   0.9
Ports                            0.3                       -                       0.7                   2.5
Aviation                          0.4                     2.5                      8.9                   2.6
Total 2/        4.4                      8.5                     47.5                  51.0
1/ Excludes expenditure on the Chinese-financed Wad Medani-Gedaref road.
2/ Excludes expenditure on pipeline.
February 1977
-I-



TABLE 2-A
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Fleet of Locomotives and Railcars
(As of Nov. 8, 1976)
Locomotives and Railcars         SRC        Make       Horse        No.        Age
Class                 Power                   (years)
Main line diesel - heavy-!/   1,000    English         1,850        55         14-17
Electric
1,000        "         1,850        10             8
1,200    Cockerill   1,850          15         15-16
Ougree
1,900    Henschel    2,250          20             1
1,800    G.E.         2,250         20             1
120
- light 2/   1,500    Hitachi        1,400        22
1,700    G.E.         1,650         10
32
Total                                          152
Main line steam                           Various                   76 3/      20-50
Shunting - diesel                 400    English         350         5            25
Electric
450    Henschel        370         4            19
100    Baguell         340         6        15-16
460    Henschel       600        21             13
600    KSK            525        23              9
-     Henschel       540        10              1
Total                                           69
Shunting - steam                          Various                   31         25-50
Railcars - diesel 4/                -     Hitachi                     3             9
1/ Heavy - used on 90 lb/yd & 75 lb/yd rail.
2/ Light - used on 50 lb/yd rail.
3/ 20 of the 76 used for shunting duties only.
-4- Three sets each consisting of one power coach and two trailers.
Source: SRC
April 1977



TABLE 2-B
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Fleet of Wagons and Coaches
(As of Nov. 8, 1976)
Age (years)                                  Total
0-19        10-19        20-39        40-59        over 60         Number
Freight Wagons
Covered (box) - 35/40 tons       443        1,668           371          540           142           3,164
- 15/27 tons       -            60          177            67            36             340
443        1,728          548          607            178          3,504
Open (high side) - 30 tons        -            546           -           219             57            822
- 15/27 tons   -             -           111            -             30            141
-           546          111          219             87            963
Flat - 30/40 tons                152             5            6           33             4             200
- 10/25 tons                 -            -            -              1            17             18
152            5            6           34             21            218
Animal - various                   98          196           71            7             12            384
Refrigerator/Perishable           -             14           -             4              1             19
Tank - 43 tons                   143           199           -            -              -             342
- 20/27 tons                 -            52          211            13            -              276
- 15/18 tons                 -            21           -              8            -               29
- 6/12 tons                  -            -            21            26            -               47
143          272          232           47             -             694
LPG - 18 tons                     -             -             4           -              -               4
Stone (cement) wagons-15 tons   -               -            -            65             -              65
Well (boiler) wagons-25 tons    -               -            -            -               2              2
Total all wagons - pnblic        836        2,761           972          983            301          5.853
traffic
Brake vans                        50            60           12           18            12             152
Service vehicles                 127           186           82           82           178             655
Total all public & service   1,013          3,007         1,066        1,083           491           6,660
Passenger Coaches -V
Sleeper                             7            7            2           11              4             31
lst class                           8           10            6            6              1             31
Composite                          11           -            -             7              4             22
2nd class                         25             9           11            8             2              55
3rd class                         94            68           27            5            -              194
4th class                         -             26           48           27            18             119
Dining/Buffet                       3            6           -             8              1.            20
Baggage/Post/Brake                  5           10           -             5            10              30
Total - public                   153           136           94           77            40             500
Service coaches                    30           52           33           43            49             207
1/  Age refers to underframes; most coach bodies are timber and renewed at about 20 year intervals;
140 new steel bodied coaches in process of delivery from Hungary.
Source: SRC
January 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of Operating  Statistics
1966          1971          1972           1973          1974          1975           1976
Provisional
I    SYSTEM
Route km                                                                    4,747         4,757          4,757         4,757          4,750         4,751          4,784
II    TRAFFIC
Passenger numbers (000)                                                     3,365         3,417          3,242         3,382          2,807         2,947          3,166
Passenger km        (mill,)                                                   886          1,033         1,041         1,085          1,048         1,102          1,151
Freight net tons  (000)                                                     2,838          3,169         3,034         2,901          2,693         2,528          2,708
Freight net ton km - revenue (mill.)                                        2,175          2,683         2,636         2,520          2,324         2,176          2,672
- service (mill.)                                         146           102           116            104           102             99            84
- total   (mill.)                                      2,321          2,785         2,752          2,624         2,426          2,275         2,756
Average passenger journey (km)                                                 263           302           321            321           373            374           364
"    freight haul        (km)                                              818           907            907           905            901           900          1,018
Traffic units (ton-km plus pass-km)                                          3,207        3,818          3,793          3,709         3,474          3,377         3,907
III    TRAFFIC DENSITY
Passenger km per route km (000)                                                187           217           219            228           221            232           241
Freight net ton km per route km (000)                                          489           585           579            552           511            479           576
IV    OPERATIONS
Train km - Passenger (000)                                                   1,790         1,447         1,590          1,219         1,236          1,114         1,168
- Livestock (000)                                                    394           341            226           116            149            97             51
- Freight   (000)                                                  5,162         5,038         4,852          4,863         4,675          4,763         5,325
- Total      (000)                                                 7,346         6,826         6,668          6,198         6,060          5,974         6,544
Train km by traction - steam  (000)                                          1,991         1,357          1,577         1,722          1,807         1,479            521
- diesel ( " )                                       5,355          5,469         5,091          4,476         4,253          4,495         6,023
Locomotive km - main line - steam  (000)                                     2,256         1,694          1,998         1,893          2,038         1,688          1,033
- diesel (   )                                  5,626         5,699          5,303         4,654          4,462         4,732          6.043
- total  (   )                                  7,882         7,393          7,301         6,547          6,500         6,420          7,076
- shunting  - steam  (   )                                     830            649           824            572           566            731            -
- diesel (   )                                  1,203           942            625            768           783            697           -
-total  ( " )                                   2,033         1,591         1,449          1,340          1,349         1,428            -
Passenger car - km                    (mill.)                                 35.1          32.3           32.3           30.8          30.5           29.4          28.4
Freight car - km - loaded             (  "  )                                107.0         123.0         113.0          108.0          104.1         102.6          113.9
- empty            (  ' )                                  24n           35.0           28.0           26.0          25.4           29.7          36.0
- total            (      )                               132.0         158.0          141.0          134.0         129.5          132.3         149.9 C
Service car - km                      (      )                                  19            33             16             16          19.5           20.3          15.7
Number of freight cars loaded         (000)                                   NA           140.4          125.2          120.7         115.7          113.9         115.2 ' I
Average freight carload per loaded car (tons)                                 20.3          21.8           23.2           23.2          22.7           20.5          24.3
"    car turnaround time    (days)                                13.8          13.1           15.0           15.6          16.4           16.8          16.5
load per freight train - net   (tons)                                 392            498           517            503            482           448            -
- gross (tons)                               825           955            994         1,010            921            902           -
Gross ton - km - passenger            (mill.)                                  910            792           924            722           643            580            553
- freight             (                                     5;151          5,731         5,702          5,575          4,935         4,807          5,294
- total               (     )                               6,061          6,523         6,626          6,277          5,578         5,387          5,847



1966          1971          1972           1973          1974          1975           1976
Provisional
V    ROLLING STOCZ
Number of locomotives in fleet (average)
- mainline - steam                                                    100            94             67            74             76             76            76
- diesel                                                   73           103            103           102            102           105            137
- shunting - steam                                                     31            31             31            31             31             31            31
- diesel                                                   37            59             59            59             59             59            74
Number of railcars in fleet                                                    NIL              3             3              3             3              3             3
passenger & luggage cars & saloons in fleet                         565           650            642           642            639            638           651
freight cars in fleet - revenue                                   5,434         5,667         5,573          5,591          5,639         5,704          5,799
- service                                   598           620           620            630            637           647            647
- total                                  6,032          6,287         6,193          6,221         6,276          6,351         6,446
Availability - locomotives - mainline - steam  (%)                               85             76            66             77            67             58            49
- diesel (%)                           84             77            72             76            71             62            67
- shunting - steam  (%)                            84             80            70             71            77             68            58
- diesel (%)                           67            69             60             56            57             54            63
- railcars - diesel (%)                                           NIL            67             67           NIL             NA            NA             33
- passenger cars    (%)                                            82            91             92            92             89             90            87
- freight cars       (%)                                           87            92             89            93             94            91             91
VI     OPERATING RATIOS
Passenger - km per passenger train km                                          495            714           655            890           848            989           985
Passenger - km per car km                                                       25             32            32             35            34             37            40
Freight - net ton km per freight train km                                      409            552           567            540           503            473            518
- gross "  "  "       "      "    "                                   927         1,065          1,123          1,120         1,023            989            984
Freight - net ton km per available car per year (000)                          444            474           472            450           411            381           461
Freight - car km per available car per day                                      67             77            69             66             63            63             71
Ratio of loaded to total freight car km                                         81             78            80             81             80            78             76
11  "1 gross ton-km to net ton-km                                            2.2            2.1           2.4            2.1           2.0            2.1           1.9
Locomotive km per available mainline
locomotive - steam  (000)                                           23             19            36             30             35            34             28
- diesel (000)                                          86            69             68             57            58             69            66
VII     STAFF
Number of employees - (000)                                                   28.6           30.9          30.1           29.5           30.9          29.6           31.2 
Employees per rote km         1/                                                6.0           6.5           6.3            6.2            6.5            6.2           6.5 "
Traffic units per employee - (000)                                              112           124           126            126            112            114           125
Gross ton-km per employee  (000)                                                212           211           220            213            181            182           187
1/ Net ton-km of freight plus passeenger-km
January 1977



TABLE 4
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Performance, Port Sudan/Atbara, 1974-76
Average
No. ot   No. ot        Gross   Net              Train Hours Lost                Running
Through  Wagons        Tons    Tons   Loco.                                     Time 1/
Month  Trains   Forwarded  ('000) ('000)   Failures  Accidents  Weather  Total (hours)
1974  Oct       168      4,506        202      129    543            226         67      836    38
Nov.      132     4,211         171      111    455           176        159      790    34
Dec.      140     4,161         194      114    589           183          0      772    35
1975  Jan.      117      3,374        163       96    438           653           0   1,091   N/A
Feb.      127     3,504         179      108    385             0        132      517   N/A
March    137      4,313         205      127    314            39         54      483   N/A
April    134      3,967         201      125      96           65        104      418    27
May       140     4,081         209      126    128           180        142      450    28
June      117     3,146         164      100    143           253        308      704    31
July      140     3,516         181      109    238            61        339      638    36
Aug.      122      3,202        161      100    181            13      1,619   1,813    37
Sep.      143     3,610         191      112    167           272        343      782    33
Oct.      145     4,055         204      125    380         1,169         70   1,619    33
Nov.      138      4,522        222      137    388           104        675   1,167    33
Dec.      152     4,809         235      150    314            44         36      394    31
1976  Jan.      155      4,965        244      152    354           396          19      769    33
Feb.      163     5,070         244      154    269            66        237      572    31
March    156       5,271        255      160    393           136        615   1,144    40
April    146       5,020        242      151      82          491        396      969    28
May       143     4,348         212      133      51          693        269   1,013    32
June      122     4,002         197      121      84          784        386   1,254    37
July      126     4,220         205      128    169           111        217      497    37
Aug.      134     4,047         198      125      68        1,072        788   1,928    37
Sep.      137     3,710         185      113      49          929        310   1,288    38
Average Oct. 1974-Sept. 1975                    113    306           177        272      6Q1
Average Oct. 1975-Sept. 1976                   137    217            500        335   1,051
1/ Working timetable schedules show 18 - 21 hours.
Source: SRC and Bank Mission
January 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Accident Data 1971 - 1975
1971                 1972                 1973                 1974                 1975
Main                 Main                Main                 Main                 Main
Yards  Line  Total Yards  Line  Total Yards Line Total  Yards  Line Total  Yards Line  Total
WaLon Derailments:
Tank               35     22      57    35       31    66    37    31    68    46    31    77    57    35    92
Other            229    53       282   169       63   232   236    82   318   200    49   249   203    57   260
Locomotive
Derailments         74    10       84    48        7    55    74       6    80    87       9    96    82        7    89
Broken Couplers   142    29        171   107       11   118    30    14    44    -         29    29    11    22    33
Miscellaneous       354   253      607   501    158   659   406   204   610   305   264   569   311   198   509
Total           834   367   1,201   860    270 1,130   783   337 1,120   638   382 1,020   664   319   983
Source: SRC and IBRD Mission
F3
tJn
January 1977



TABLE 6
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Operational Objectives
Actual               Objectives
1976           1981           1983
1. Average diesel locomotive availa-
bility (%)
(a)  heavy main-line                         64              70             80
(b)  light main-line                         64              65             70
(c)  shunting                                64              65             70
2. Productivity per available locomotive
per year (loco.-km '000)
(a)  heavy main-line                         68              75            100
(b)  light main-line                         54              60             75
3.  Average availability - all wagons (%)         91             9O             92
4.  Average wagon turnaround time (in days)
(a)  general freight                         16.5            13             11.5
(b)  oil tank                                 9.2             9.2            9.0
5.  Average wagon load (tons)                     24              24            25
6.  Productivity per available wagon per
year (ton-km '000)                        520             595            650
7.  Staff productivity ('000 traffic units
per employee)                             125             180            220
January 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Staff Size Compared to Route Length and Traffic Carried
Traffic      Staff cost as
Route length      Staff size       No. of staff       Traffic l/  per staff    % of operating
Country (Year)              (km)              ('000)           per km         (million)       ('000)           costs
Sudan (1976)                4,784                30               6.3           3,762           125             60
Bolivia (1973)              3,323                 7               2.1             594            85             63
Cameroon (1973)             1,174                 4               3.4             288            72             59
Nigeria (1963)              5,603                31               5.5           2,012            65              60
India (1975) 2/            30,210             1,118              37.0         204,964           183
Pakistan (1968)             8,613               135              15.6          17,852           130
Yugoslavia (1972)          10,417               135              13.0          29,757           220              46
Mexico (1974)              14,023                63               4.5          29,428           467              69
Spain (1974)               13,432                68               5.1          28,749           423              69
France (1973)              34,812               283               8.1         118,600           419              67
Germany (1972)             29,230               405              13.9         109,078           269              83
Britain (1974)             18,168               193              10.6          52,532           272              71
Vast Africa (1971)          5,893                41 3/            7.0 3/        5,244           128 3/54 3/
1/ Freight ton km plus passenger km
2/  Broad gauge system only.
3/ Includes staff in lake and road services.
*- Not readily available
February 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Comparative Statements of Profit and Loss
Railway Operations
(6S '000)
1/
Year Ended June 30                  1971         1972         1973         1974         1975         1976
Revenue:
Freight:
Cotton and Cotton Seed         1,947        2,524       1,917         2,220        2,128       3,381
Grain and Food Stuffs          1,782        1,785       1,840         1,738        2,221        2,972
Other Local Produce              587          659          596          628        1,015        1,420
Petroleum                      3,457        3,706        5,014        3,521        3,882        3,992
Imported Food Stuffs           3,219        2,918       1,410         2,690        3,783       6,217
Other Imports                  3,741        3,343        3,479        4,078        5,331        8,192
Livestock                        229          152          187          197          200          180
Total Freight          14,962       15,087       14,443       15,072       18,560       26,354
Passengers                       3,823        3,914        4,200        4,432        5,375        5,856
Miscellaneous                      796          475          363          405          460          519
Total Revenue          19,581       19,476       19,006       19.909       24395        32729
Expenses:
Salaries and Wages            11,091       11,452       11,892       13,498       15,735       17,750
Stores                         2,489        2,556        3,002        3,101        3,564        4,562
Fuel                             899        1,151        1,621        2,413        4,384        4,087
Miscellaneous                  1,187          940          923          977        1,309          901
15,666      16,099       17,438        19,989       24,992      27,300
Depreciation                   2,314        2,354        2,398        2,460        2,538        2.976
Total Expenses         17,980       18,453       19,836       22,449        27,530      30,276
Net Operating Revenue              1,601        1,023       t  830)      (2,540)       (3,135)      2,453
Non-Operating Reven-.e               410          610           557          850        1,047         890
Interest Charges                   1,505        1,518        1,620        2,014        2,106        3,062
Net Income                 506          115       (1,893)      (3,704)      (4,194)         281
1/ Unaudited
Source: Sudan Railways CorDoration and Bank Staff.
April 1977



TABLE 9
SUDAN
Fourth Railway Project
Sudan Railways Corporation
Comparative Balance Sheets
(LS '000)
1/
Year Ended June 30                                          1975             1976
Assets
Current Assets:
Receivables                                             12,985           17,218
Inventories                                             20,296           22,514
33,281          3,3
Fixed Assets - At Cost                                    84,488           86,470
Accumulated Depreciation                                27,660           30,595
Net in Use                                            56,828           55,875
Work in Progress                                         5,609           27,560
42,437        83,435
Total Assets                                              95718123167
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:
Trade Payables                                          13,658           17,385
Provident Fund                                           2,496            2,470
Bank Overdraft                                          16,956           19,026
Long-Term Debt - Current                                 2,967            3,953
36,077          42,834
Deferred Customs                                            -              11,004
Long-Term Debt:
IBRD                                                    11,121           10,547
Other                                                    4,550           15,403
15,671          25,950
Equity:
Capital                                                 11,377           11,365
Capital Reserve                                         28,027           30,969
Retained Earnings                                        4,566            1,045
43,970          43,379
Total Liabilities and Equity                              95,718          123,167
1/  Unaudited.
Source:  Sudan Railways Corporation
April 1977



TABLE 10
SUDAN
Fourth Railway Project
Sudan Railways Corporation
Cash Flow
For the Year Ended June 30, 1976
(IS '000)
Source of Funds
1. From Operations:
Net Operating Profit                                          2,453
Add Provision for Depreciation                                2,976
5,429
2.  Non-Operating Revenue                                             890
3.  Increase in Long-Term Debt                                     14,232
4.  Deferred Customs                                               11,004
Total Source of Funds                                     31,555
Application of Funds:
1.  Purchase of Capital Assets - Net               23,970
2.  Debt Service - Principal                        3,953
- Interest                        3,062
3.  Interest on Capital                               454
4.  Sundry                                            422
Total Source of Funds                                     31,861
Decrease in Working Capital                             306
Represented By:
Increase
1975       1976         (Decrease)
Current Assets:
Receivables         12,985      17,218             4,233
Inventories         20,296      22,514            2,218
33,281     39,732             6,451
Current Liabilities:
Trade Payables      13,658      17,385           ( 3,727)
Provident Fund       2,496       2,470                26
Bank Overdraft      16,956      19,026           ( 2,070)
Long-Term Debt -
Current            2,967       3,953           (  986)
36,077     42,834            _ 6,757)
Working Capital -
(Decrease)       ( 2,796)   ( 3,102)          (   306)
Source: Bank Staff
April 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SRC Freight Traffic Forecast to 1983
(in '000 tons)
Year ended June 30
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Actuals         Estimate                     Forecast
A. To Port Sudan
Cotton                           211      161     209      220      226      230     235      240      246      252
Cotton seed                       37       *-        1      70       70       70       70      70       70       70
Groundnut                        129      204     245      288      317      349     384      422      464      510
Sesame                           100       82     115       91      100      110     121      133      146      161
Oilcake                           33       63       81     220      230      240      250     260      270      280
Maize and millets                 46       39       16      98      108      119      132     145      159      175
Wheat                              0        0        0       0       28       29       30       31      32       33
Sugar                              0        0        0      20      234      388     615      767      908   1,023
Molasses                           0        1        5       65     110      110      110     110      110      110
Gum                               22       28       22      40       42       45       48       50      52       55
Other agric. products             23       13       20      44       64       68       72       75      79       84
Chrome ore                        28       15       25      30       30       30       30      30       30       30
Other goods                       68       38       72      95       92       87       87       92      97       99
Subtotal (A)            697      644      811   1,281   1,651   1,875   2,184   2,425   2,663   2,882
B. From Port Sudan
Fuel oil in bulk                  98      112      115     101       91       90       83      73       59       42
Other petroleum products in
bulk                            337      443     427      546      302      337     376      419      468      523
Packed petroleum products        151       89       81      66       71       75       78      84       87       92
Fertilizers & insecticides       154      143      135     165      195      225      237     249      261      273
Chemicals and medicines           13        9       14      14       14       14       15      15       15       15        e
Motor vehicles                     5        7        6       9       10       11       12       13      14       15
Machinery                         22       14        9       25      31       34       36       39      41       44
Iron and steel products           70       42       61      83       86       90       93      97      102      107
Jute goods                        28       25       31      15        0        0        0        0       0        0
Glass products                     9        2        3      10       11       11       11      12       12       13
Timber                             5        4       ..      30       35       37       39      40       41       42
Paper and paper products          16       18       21      21       23       24       26      27       29       30
Asphalt                            7       20       15      24       26       28       29       30      31       32



Year ended June 30
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Actuals         Estimate                       Forecast
B. From Port Sudan (Cont'd.)
Rice, wheat and flour           174      132      155       0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Salt                             53       57       63      64       65       65       66       66      67       67
Sugar                           128      128     158       16        0        0        0        0       0        0
Cement and clinker                6        4       29      30       40       50       60       70      80       90
Other food products               8        4       11      11       11       11        8        8        8       8
Miscellaneous manufactures       9        59       98     140      145      150      155      160      165     170
Subtotal (B) 1,379   1,312   1,432   1,370   1,156   1,252   1,324   1,402   1,480   1,563
C.  Local Traffic
Petroleum products in bulk        2        2        1        4     365      385      405      425      445     470
Cotton                            1       12        1        2       2        3        3        4        4        5
Cotton seed                      14        5        4        9       9       10       10       11       11       11
Other oilseeds                    7       12        6       10      12       13       14       15       16       17
Maize and millets               100       54       51      200     210      220      230      240      250      260
Wheat                              6       3        2      100     150      160      165      170      175      180
Flour                            41       38       32     150      200      210      215      220      225      230
Sugar                            10        8        5     115      122      129      136      144      152     161
Dates                            21       25       15       25       26      27       28       29       30       31
Other food products              36       30       26       40       48      54       59       66       72       76
Cement                          120      135      100     140      150      160      170      180      190      200
Timber                            6        6        6       10      11       12       13       14       15       16
Firewood and charcoal            35       32       20       27       28      30       32       33       35       36
Sacking                           1        2        2       11      20       20       20       20       20       20
Fertilizers and insecticides   11         13        9       17       18      20       22       23       24       26
Iron and steel products           5        5        3        7        8       8        9        9       10       11
Other commodities                61       52       64       70       80       90      95      100      110      120
Subtotal (C)  477       434     347      937   1,459   1,551   1,626   1,703   1,784   1,870
D.  Livestock                          28       25      20       33       59       62       66       70       75      80
E.  Service                           112      113      98      110      120      140      160      180     200      220      > 
SRC Forecast of Total
Freight                       2,693   2,528   2,708   3,731   4,445   4,880   5,360   5,780   6,202   6,616
Appraisal Forecast             2,693   2,528   2,708   3,100   3,500   3,900   4,300   4,650   5,000   5.300
Notes:  ..   negligible
Source:   Sudan Railways Corporation and Bank Staff
January 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SRC Passenger Traffic Forecast to 1983
(in '000)
Year ended June 30
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Actuals         Estimate                     Forecast
1. Sleeper and First
Class                      95     104      145      146     160      170      180      192     203      215
2.  Second Class               119      234     246      276      304     319      335      352      370     389
3. Third and Fourth
Class                  2,514   2,609   2,773   3,293   3,688   3,920   4,199   4,416   4,743   5,043
Total                 2,728   2,947   3,164   3,715   4,152   4,409   4,714   4,960   5,316   5,647
January 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Prolect ./
LS Million                                         01$ Million
Locha -i  Foreign     Total           Local 2/  Foreign    total            Bank Grnup Financing
A. TRACK
Re-sleeper 500 km on Haiya-Sennar-I1 Obeid                2.88        3.07       5.95           7.21        7.67      14.88                6.12
Relay 150 km on Khartoum-Sennar                           3.59        4.20       7.79           8.98       10.50      19.48                  -
Relay Abu Zabad-_abanousa                                 3.37        1.33       4.70           8.42        3.33      11.75                  -
Track Maintenance Iquipment                               o.32        0.49       0.81           0.80        1.22       2.02                 1.22
Signals and Comsunications                                0.50       0.56        1.06           1.25        1.40       2.65                1i.0
Additional Crosing Stations                               0.87        0.43       1.30            2.17       1.08       3.25
Bridge Strengthening, Flood Protection                     1.90       0.60       2.50           4.75        1.50       6.25
Sub-Total        13.43      10.68      24.11           33.58      26.70      60.28                 8.74
B. WORKSBOPS
New Diesel Locomotive Shops. Sennar                       0.53        0.13       0.66            1.32       0.33       1.65
New Wagon Shops, Port Sudan                               0.38        0.11       0.49           0.95        0.27       1.22 )
Machinary and Equipmnt for new shops                       0.98       1.29       2.27            2.45       3.23       5.68 )
Locomotive Components for new shops                       0.29        0.65       0.94           0.73        1.62       2.35
Sub-Total         2.18       2.18       4.36            5.45       5.45       10.90                5.45
C. ROLLING STOCK
Mainline Diesel Locmotives (10)                            1.80       3.00       4.80            4.50       7.50      12.00                  -
Locaootive Spare Parts                                     1.72       3.40       5.12            4.30       8.50      12.80
Freight Wagons (400)                                       3.48       5.18       8.66            8.70      12.95       21.65                 -
Roller Bearings and Couplers                               0.33       0.54       0.87            0.83       1.35        2.18                1.35
Sub-Total         7.33      12.12      19.45           18.33      30.30       48.63                1.35
D, TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCZE
Atbara Training School Equipment (2nd Phase)
and Technical Assistance                                 0.42       0.43       0.85            1.05       1.08        2.13 )
Other Miscellaneous Assistance                             0.02       0.11       0.13            0.05       0.27        0.32 )              1.35
Sub-Total         0.44       0.54       0.98            1.10        1.35       2.45                 1.35
E. TOTAL WITHOUT CONTINGEICIES                                23.38      25.52      48.90           58.46      63.80      122.26                16.89
F. CONTINGENCIES - PRICE ONLY                                  4.42       3.30        7.72          11.05       8.25       19.30                 3.11
G. TOTAL WITH CONTINGINCIES                                   27.80      28.82      56.62           69.51       72.05     141.56                20.00
1/   977 prices.
2/  Includes Sudan custom  duties and foreoign *=hang  tat, amounting to LS 12.38 million (US$30.94 million equivalent).
May 1977



TABLE 14
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                Disbursements              Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                  during Quarter                  at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)                       (US$ '000)
1978
December 31, 1977                  100                               100
March 31, 1978                     400                               500
June 30, 1978                    1,000                             1,500
1979
September 30, 1978               1,000                             2,500
December 31, 1978                1,500                             4,000
March 31, 1979                   1,500                             5,500
June 30, 1979                    1,500                             7,000
1980
September 30, 1979               2,000                             9,000
December 31, 1979                2,000                            11,000
March 31, 1980                   2,000                            13,000
June 30, 1980                    2,000                            15,000
1981
September 30, 1980               2,000                            17,000
December 31, 1980                1,000                            18,000
March 31, 1981                   1,000                            19,000
June 30, 1981                      500                            19,500
1982
September 30, 1981                 300                            19,800
December 31, 1981                  200                            20,000
April 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Coreoration
Projected Statement of Profit and Lose
LS '000                                     LS  Millions                                  LS Millions
Year Ended June 30                     1977        1978        1979        1980                1981        1982        1983                 1984       1985        1986
Revenue:
Freight                           31,442      34,764     38,585      42,251                45.42      48.55       51.62                 54.2         56.9       59.8
Passengers                         7,695       8,311      8,976       9,693                10.47       11.31       12.21                13.2         14.2       15.4
Miscellaneous                        200         200         200        200                  .20         .20         .20                   .2           .2        .2
Total Revenue              39,337     43.275      47,761      52,144               56.09       60.06       64.03                 67.6         71.3       75.4
Expenses:
Salaries and Wages                19,800      21,983     23,598      25,359                25.79       25.97       26.35                 26.3        26.3       26.5
Stores                             3,963       4,509      4,740       5,068                 5.29        5.38        5.57                  5.5          5.6       5.6
Fuel                               5,694       6,627       7,147       7,715                8.22        8.73        9.54                 10.0         10.5      11.1
Miscellaneous                      1.520       1 614       1,655       1,712                1.75        1.77        1.80                  1.8          1.8        1.8
30,977           3      7,140      39,854                                        WM.2-           436 4.2 4
Depreciation                       3.588       4,606       5,194      5,628                 5.85        6.86        7.60                  8.3          8.7        9.1
Total Expenses             34.565     39,339      42,334      45,482               46.90       48.71       50.86                 51.9         52.9       54.1
Net Operating Revenue                 4,772       3,936       5,427       6,662                9.19       11.35       13.17                 15.7         18.4       21.3
Non-Operating Revenue                  1,575      1,575       1,575       1,575                1.58        1.58        1.58                  1.6          1.6        1.6
Interest Charges                      3,667       3,529       3,528       3,808                4.41        5.33        6.21                  6.5          6.3        6.0
Net Income                  2,680      1,982       3,474       4,429                 6.36        7.60       8.54                 10.8         13.7       16.9
Source: Bank Staff
May 1977



TABLE 16
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
Percent
Debt      Times                      Annual Return
Working    Operating   Service       Interest   Debt/Equity   on Net Fixed
Ratio      Ratio       Coverage    Earned         Ratio       Assets in Use
l/         2/           3/          4/            5/               6/
1975        1.02         1.13         0.10           -        26/74              -
1976        0.83         0.93         1.05         1.09       37/63             4.8
1977        0.79         0.88         1.30         1.73       40/60              8.1
1978        0.80         0.91         1.46         1.56       38/62             5.0
1979        0.78         0.89         2.10         1.98       39/61             5.5
1980        0.76         0.87         2.55        2.16        42/58             6.0
1981        0.73         0.84         2.36        2.44        45/55             7.1
1982        0.70         0.81         2.45        2.42        46/54              7.4
1983        0.68         0.79         2.48         2.37       47/53             7.7
1/ Working Ratio - Total operating expenses, excluding depreciation and interest,
divided by total operating revenue.
2/ Operating Ratio - Total operating expenses, including depreciation but
excluding interest, divided by total operating revenue.
3/ Debt Service Coverage - Net income before depreciation and interest divided by the
total of interest plus principal repayments.
4/ Times Interest Earned - Net income before interest divided by the interest charges.
5/ Debt/Equity Ratio - The relative percentages of long-term debt and equity invested
in the enterprise.
6/ Annual Return on Net Fixed Assets in Use - Net income before interest as a
percentage of the average net fixed assets in use for the year.
Source: Bank staff
April 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Proiected Balance Sheet
16S 000                                    LS Millions                                   LS mllions
Year Ended June 30                1977       1978       1979        1980               1981       1982        1983                   1984       1985        1986
Assets
Current Assets:
Bank                              -         -           -           -                  -          -           -                    2.5        13.7        31.7
Receivables                     7,746    4,276        4,746      5,197               5.59       5.97        6.35                   6.7         7.0         7.4
Inventories                    22 000   20,261       13,180     13 102              13.93      14.08       14.37                  14.3        14.4        14.6
29,74 24,537         17.2.                         18,2       20.055      20.72                   23.5        __         _5__
Fixed Assets - At Cost          134,780  159,913      178,846    189,159             219.71     244.96      270.20                  280.1      290.0       299.9
Accumulated Deprecietion       34 183   38,789       43 983    49 611               55.46      62.32       69.92                   78.2       86.9        96.0
Net in Use                  100,5    121,124      134,863    139,548             164.25     182.64      200.28                  201.9      203.1       203.9
Work in Progress                5 520      -          3,273      5 304                           -                       -                      -
16.1i7   121,124      138 136    144 852            164.25     182.64      200.28                  201.9       2
Total Assets                    135,863  145,661      156,062    163 151             183.77     202.69      221.00                  225.4       238.2       257.6
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:
Trade Payables                 8,000    6,938        7,273      7,729               8.05       8.22        8.54                    8.6         8.7         8.8
Caitments                         -    14,472        20,156    16,110              19.48      18.54       20.56                    8.2         3.0         3.0
Bank Overdraft                29,713   21,217       15,352     14,390              11.92      10.94        5.37                     -           -           -
Long-term Debt - Current       5,049    3,388        2,274      1,611               2.62       2.73        2.79                    4.7         4.9         5.0
Provident Fund                 3,050    2,974        2898       2,822               2.74       2.67        2.59                    2.5         2.4         2.4
Z~1T~     ~           ~          i!'!!I4                       43.120    4,B                       _7__  4260              _i_ 
Deferred Customs                 15.004   19,505        22,124    23,067              26.78      30.49       34.20                   36.3        38.4        40.5
Lonw-Term Debt:
IBRD - Existing                13,982   13,239       12,470     11,674              10.85      10.00        9.12                    8.2         7.3         6.3
Other - Existing               15,689   13,044       11,539     10,724              10.01       9.26        8.55                    7.8         7.1         6.6
IBID - Proposed                   -         76        1,261      6,352               6.51       7.45        7.14                    6.8         6.4         6.1
Other - Proposed                  -      2,721        8,285     12,364              17.10      16.25       15.36                   14.5        13.5        12.5
Future Requirments                -        -            -          -                 5.59      16.97       29.62                   40.4        45.9        49.4
29,671   B       033.            1,11      4        50.06   59.93          69.79           77 
Equity:
Capital                       11,127   12,347       13,767     13,767              13.77      13.77       13.77                   13.7        13.7        13.7
Capital Reserve               34,922   39,971       43,359     45,633              47.24      49.86       52.59                   55.4        60.1        65.0
Retained Earnings            (  673)  (4,231)       (4,696)    (3,092)              1.11       5.54       10.80                   18.3        26.8        38.3
45,376   48,087       52,430     56,308             62.12       69.17       77.16                   87.4       100.6       117.0
Total Liabilities and Equity    135.863  145,661      156,062    163.151             183.77     202.69      221.00                  225.4       238.2       257.6
Source: Bank Steff
Hay 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Statements of Retained Earnings and Capital Reserve
Retained Earnings
LS'OOO                              ES millions                     ES millions
Year Ended June 30           1977      1978     1979     1980           1981      1982     1983          1984      1985     1986
Opening Balance             1,045     (673)  (4,231)  (4,696)          (3.09)    1.11      5.54          10.8      18.3     26.8
Add Profit for Year         2680    1.982    3,474    4,429             6.36      7.60     8.54          10.8      13.7     16.9
3,725    1,309   (  757)  (  267)           3.27     8.71    14.08           21.6     32.0      43.7
Deduct:
Interest on Capital         445      491       551      551           0.55     0.55      0.55           0.5      0.5       0.5
Transfer to Reserve 1/   3,953    5,049    3,388    2,274             1.61     2.62      2.73           2.8      4.7       4.9
Closing Balance            (  673)  (4,231)  (4,696)  (3,092)           1.11     5.54    10.80           18.3      26.8     38.3
Capital Reserve
Opening Balance            30,969   34,922   39,971   43,359           45.63    47.24    49.86           52.6      55.4     60.1
Add Transfer from Profits  3,953    5,049    3,388    2,274             1.61      2.62     2.73           2.8       4.7      4.9
Closing Balance            34,922   39,971   43,359   45,633           47.24    49.86    52.59           55.4      60.1     65.0
1/  Each year an amount equal to the debt payment requirement is transferred from retained earnings to capital
reserve.
Source:  Bank Staff
May 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Projected Cash Flow
hS'O0O                         ES Millions                     LS Millions
Year Ended June 30                   1978     1979      1980          1981      1982     1983           1984     1985      1986
Source of Funds:
1. From Operations:
Net Operating Revenue       3,936    5,427    6,662           9.19    11.35    13.17           15.7      18.4     21.3
Depreciation                4,606    5,194    5,628           5.85     6.86      7.60           8.3       8.7      9.1
Non-Operating Revenue       1.575    1.575    1.575           1.58     1.58      1.58            1.6      1.6      1.6
10,117   12,196   13,865          16.62    19.79    22.35           25.6      28.7     32.0
2.  Increase in Capital           1,220    1,420              -           -        -            -                -        -
3.  Long Term Debt                2,797    6,749    9,170           5.98     1.22       -               -        -         -
4.  Deferred Customs              4,501    2,619      943           3.71     3-71      3.71            2.1      2.1       2.1
5.  Future Requirements             -        -        -             5.59    11.38    12.65            12.6      7.4       5.7
6. Decrease in Non-Cash          16,882   11,440      -             3.40      _        1.65             -        -
Working Capital
Total Sources of Funds    35,517   34,424   23,978           35.30    36.10    40.36            40.3     38.2     39.8
Use of Funds:
1.  Capital Assets               19,613   22,206   12,344          25.25    25.25    25.24             9.9      9.9       9.9
2.  Debt Service - Principal      3,388    2,274    1,611           2.62      2.73     2.79            4.7      4.9       5.0
- Interest      3,529    3,528    3,808            4.41     5.33      6.21           6.5       6.3      6.0
3.  Interest on Capital             491      551       551          0.55      0.55     0.55            0.5      0.5       0.5
4.  Increase in Non-Cash                             4702                     1.26      -             10.8       5.4      0.4
Working Capital
Total Use of Funds         27,021   28,559   23.016          32.83    35.12    34.79            32.4     27.0      21.8
Annual Cash Surplus                 8,496    5,865       962           2.47     0.98     5.57             7.9     11.2     18.0
Opening Cash Balance              (29,713) (21,217) (15,352)         (14.39)  (11.92)  (10.94)           (5. 4)    2.5     13.7
Closing Cash Balance              (21,217)  15,352) (14, 390)        (11.92)  (10.94)   (5.37)           2.5      13.7     31.7
Source:   Bank Staff
May 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Debt Service Deflated to 1977 Monetary Unit
(LS'OO  1978-80; ES million 1981-86)
Current Monetary Unit 1/                         Deflated to 1977 Monetary Unit 2/
Principal   Interest    Total                 Principal   Interest    Total              Decrease
1978               3,388      3,529       6,917                  3,108       3,238      6,346                571
1979               2,274      3,528       5,802                  1,914       2,969      4,883                919
1980               1,611      3,808       5,419                  1,255       2,968      4,223              1,196
1981               2.62       4.41        7.03                   1.89        3.18       5.07               1.96
1982               2.73       5.33        8.06                   1.82        3.56       5.38               2.68
1983               2.79       6.21        9.00                   1.73        3.84       5.57               3.43
1984               4.7        6.5        11.2                    2.7         3.7        6.4                4.8
1985               4.9        6.3        11.2                    2.6         3.3        5.9                5.3
1986               5.0        6.0        11.0                    2.5         2.9        5.4                5.6
1/ From Table 19-A
2/ Deflator Index:  1978 - 79 = 9%
1980 - 86 = 8%
May 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Revised Cash Flow Giving Effect to Deflated Debt Service
iS'OO IS million                                                  IS million
Year Ended June 30               1978      1979      1980           1981      1982      1983           1984      1985      1986
Annual Cash Surplus i/          8,496    5,865        962           2.47      0.98      5.57            7.9      11.2      18.0
Increase due to Debt
Service Deflation 2/            571       919    1,196            1.96     2.68      3.43             4.8       5.3       5.6
Adjusted Cash Surplus           9,067    6,784    2,158             4.43      3.66      9.00           12.7      16.5      23.6
Opening Cash Balance          (29,713) (20.646) (13.862)          (11.70)   (7.27)   (3.61)             5.4      18.1      34.6
Closing Cash Balance          (20,646) (13_862) (11_704)           (7.27)   (3.61)    5.39             18.1      34.6      58.2
1/ From Table 19-A
2/ From Table 19-B
Source:  Bank Staff
May 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Projected Operating Statements
Without Project 2/
ES '000                           L6S Millions                      ES Millions
Year Ended June 30         1977      1978     1979      1980         1981      1982      1983         1984     1985      1986
Revenue                  39,337   43,275   43,275   43,275          43.28    43.28    43.28           43.3     43.3      43.3
Expenses:
Salaries and Wages    19,800   21,983   23,225   24,926           25.41    25.80    26.14          26.5      26.7      26.9
Stores                  3,963    4,509    4,548    4,846           5.09      5.29     5.46          5.6       5.7       5.8
Fuel                    5,694    6,627    6,627    6,627           6.63      6.63      6.63          6.6      6.6       6.6
Miscellaneous           1,520    1,614    1,624    1,676           1.72      1.75      1.78          1.8      1.8       1.8
30.977   34,733   36 024                   38.85    39.47    40.01          40.5      40.8      41.1
,=       8,5427    725      5,200                   n         3.27         -75                "7:7
Non-Operating Revenue    1,575    1,575    1,575    1,575             1.58     1.58      1.58          1.6       1.6      1.6
Net Income 1/             9,935   10 117    8,826    6,775            6.01     5.39      4.85          4.4       4.1      3.8
1/ Before provision for depreciation and interest.
2/ SRC will reach carrying capacity in FY78 if no investments are made.
Source: Bank Staff
April 1977
C



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sudan Railways Corporation
Projected Operating Statements
With Project Investments Only 2/
LS '000                      LS Millions                        LS Millions
Year Ended June 30         1977       1978     1979      1980       1981      1982      1983          1984      1985    1986
Revenue                 39,337    43 275   472761   52214h         56.09    56.09    56.09            56.1      56.1    56.1
Expenses:
Salaries and Wages   19,800    21,983   23,598   25,359         25.79    25.99    26.16             26.3      26.4    26.5
Stores                 3,963      4,509    4,740    5,068         5.29      5.39     5.48            5.6       5.7      5.8
Fuel                   5,694      6,627    7,147    7,715         8.22      8.22     8.22            8.2       8.2      8.2
Miscellaneous          1,520      1,614    1,655    1,712         1.75      1.77      1.78           1.8       1.8      1.8
30,977    342733   37,140   39_854        41.05    41.37    41.64            41.9      42.1    42.3
8,360     8,542   10,621   12,290        15.04    14.72    14.45            14.2      14.0    13.8
Non-Operating Revenue   1,575       1,575    1,575    1,575         1.58      1.58      1.58           1.6       1.6      1.6
Net Income 1/             9,935    10 117   12,196   1             16.62    16.30    J6CW             15.8      15.6    15.4
1/ Before provision for depreciation and interest.
2/ The SRC will reach carrying capacity with the proposed
project in FY81.
Source: Bank Mission
April 1977



TABLE 22
SUDAN
Sudan Railways Corporation
Financial Internal Rate of Return
(Ls '000)
Year                                Operating Surplus                        Net
Ended     Capital        With          Without                               Cash
June 30    Costs       Proiect         Pro, ct           Net                Flow
1978     6,557        10,117           10,117            -(  6,557)
1979    14,908        12,196            8,826         3,370             ( 11,538)
1980    14,776        13,865            6,775         7,090             (  7,686)
1981    10,423        16,620            6,010        10,610                   187
1982     4,420        16,300            5,390        10,910                 6,490
1983                  16,030            4,850        11,180                 11,180
1984                  15,800           4,400         11,400                11,400
1985                  15,600            4,100        11,500                11,500
1986 1/               15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1987                  15,400            3,800        11,600                 11,600
1988                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1989                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1990                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1991                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1992                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1993                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1994                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
1995                  15,400            3,800        11,600                 11,600
1996                  15,400            3,800        11,600                 11,600
1997                  15,400            3,800        11,600                11,600
51,084      301,328           96,068        2052260               154,176
Financial Internal Rate of Return: 25%
Sensitivity Analysis:
(1)  Cost Increase of 10%         22%
(2)  Benefit Decrease of 10%      22%
(3) Cost Increase of 10% and
Benefit Decrease of 10%  20%
1/ Maintenance costs with and without the project are assumed to increase
annually by the same amount commencing with 1986.
2/ From Table 21.
3/ From Table 20.
Source: Bank Staff
May 1977



TABLE 23-A
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Analysis
(in ES '000)
(i)  Resleeperin' Haiya - Kassala - Sennar - El Obeid Line
20 years, 1 cost stream, 3 benefit streams
Track
Maintenance
Project      Rolling Stock lt    Operating Costl/            Cost
Year          Cost            Savings             Savings                Savings
1978           196                0                  0                     480
1979         1,354                0                  0                     480
1980         1,355                0                  0                     480
1981         1,159              600                100                     480
1982           963              600                200                     480
1983             0              600                300                     480
1984             0                0                600                     480
1965             0                0                600                     480
1986             0                0                600                     400
1987             0                0                600                     200
1988             0                0                600                     100
1989             0                0                600                      50
1990             0                0                600                       0
1991             0                0                600                       0
1992             0                0                600                       0
1993             0                0                600                       0
1994             0                0                600                       0
1995             0                0                600                       0
1996             0                0                600                       0
1997             0                0                600                       0
Rate of Return = 39%
1/ After improvement, an additional 2 million tons can be carried to and from
Sennar by this route, because it is 52 km shorter than the present route via
Atbara and Khartoum. Alternatively, this traffic could otherwise go by truck,
at an additional cost of ES 0.0057 per ton-km over 1,000 km. The Atbara -
Khartoum route will involve purchase of 120 additional wagons and 2 locomotives
for ES 1.8 million and ES 0.6 million in annual operating costs.
May 1977



TABLE 23-B
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Analysis
(in ES '000)
(ii)  Upgrading of Khartoum - Sennar Line
20 years, 1 cost stream, 2 benefit streams
Track
Avoided1/         Maintenance
Project!'    Rolling Stock 21         Capital               Cost
Year           Cost             Savings              Costs              Savings
1978           233                 0                    0                  0
1979           699                 0                    0                  0
1980           699                 0                    0                144
1981           466               825                    0                144
1982           233                 0                    0                144
1983             0                 0                    0                144
1984             0                 0                    0                144
1985             0                 0                    0                144
1986             0                 0                    0                 100
1987             0                 0                    0                  80
1988             0                 0                    0                   0
1989             0                 0                    0                  0
1990             0                 0                1,048                  0
1991             0                 0                2,100                  0
1992             0                 0                1,977                  0
1993             0                 0                  935                   0
1994             0                 0                    0                  0
1995             0                 0                    0                   0
1996             0                 0                    0                  0
1997             0                 0                    0                   0
Rate of Return  =  17%
1/  Project costs include the cost of labor for rail renewal and the extra
cost of transporting used 75 lb. rail to Rahad - Babanousa.
2/ Increased speed results in shorter turn-around time for locomotives and
wagons which means that less rolling stock is needed.
3/ The Khartoum - Sennar line would need relaying within a 10-15 year period
in any case. Full costs - labor and track material - would then have to be
incurred.
May 1977



TABLE 23-C
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Analysis
(in ES '000)
(iii) Upgrading of El-Rahad - Babanousa Line
20 years, 1 cost stream, 2 benefit streams
Track
Maintenance
ProjectV          LivestockV           Operating Cost3/             Cost
Year           Cost             Traffic                 Savings                Savings
1978            298                 0                      0                    233
1979          2,276                 0                      0                    233
1980          2,277                 0                      0                    233
1981          1,978                93                    300                    233
1982          1,682               187                    500                    233
1983              0               187                    600                    233
1984              0               187                    700                    233
1985              0               187                    800                    233
1986              0               187                    900                    200
1987              0               187                  1,000                    150
1988              0               187                  1,200                    100
1989              0               187                  1,600                     50
1990              0               187                  1,600                      0
1991              0               187                  1,600                      0
1992              0               187                  1,600                      0
1993              0               187                  1,600                      0
1994              0               187                  1,600                      0
1995              0               187                  1,600                      0
1996              0               187                  1,600                      0
1997              0               187                  1,600                      0
Rate of Return = 15%
1/ Includes cost of new 90 lb ra:ils to be used on the Khartoum - Sennar line in
order to release 75 lb rails for this line.
2/ Improved efficiency allows movement of livestock traffic of 33 million ton-km from the
Savannah livestock project; this traffic would otherwise go by truck.
3/ Operating savings result from: heavier and fewer trains carrying same traffic;
and higher utilization of locomotives, because locomotive change to lighter ones is
no longer required at Rahad.
May 1977



TABLE 23-D
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Analysis
(in ES '000)
(iv) Workshops
20 years, 1 cost stream, 2 benefit streams
Project            Rolling Stock               Maintenance
Year              Cost                  Savings 1/                 Savings 27
1978                0                      0                          0
1979              767                      0                          0
1980            1,597                      0                          0
1981              940                  1,280                        100
1982                0                  2,000                        600
1983                0                  3,120                      1,100
1984                0                      0                      1,600
1985                0                      0                      1,900
1986                0                      0                      2,200
1987                0                      0                      2,500
1988                0                      0                      2,600
1989                0                      0                      2,700
1990                0                      0                      2,800
1991                0                      0                     2,800
1992                0                      0                     2,800
1993                0                      0                     2,800
1994                0                      0                     2,800
1995                0                      0                     2,800
1996                0                     e                      2,800
1997                0                     0                      2,800
Rate of Return = 65%.
1/ Improved maintenance at Sennar will increase by 25% the availability of loco-
motives served there, so that 20 fewer locomotives are needed to haul the same
traffic.  At 1S320,000 per locomotive, LS6.4 million in rolling stock costs are saved.
2/ Maintenance costs are also reduced because of improved physical layout and
higher labor productivity. Savings are conservatively estimated at hSO.016 per
locomotive km.
January 1977



TABLE 23-E
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Cost-Benefit Analysis
(in ES '000)
(v) Wagons and Locomotives
Year            Rolling Stock. Costs                   Operating Cost Savingsl/
1978                   2,492                                       0
1979                   3,365                                     570
1980                   3,930                                   1,140
1981                   3,555                                   1,710
1982                       0                                   3,400
1983                       0                                   3,400
1984                       0                                   3,400
1985                       0                                   3,400
1986                       0                                   3,400
1987                       0                                   3,400
1988                       0                                   3,400
1989                       0                                   3,400
1990                       0                                   3,400
1991                       0                                   3,400
1992                       0                                   3,400
1993                       0                                   3,400
1994                       0                                   3,400
1995                       0                                   3,400
1996                       0                                   3,400
1997                       0                                   3,400
Rate of Return =  23%
1/  Rolling stock and spare Darts procured undpr tla nrolpet v411 nroviAe for a
traffic capacity of up to 600 million ton-km, which would otherwise have to
go by truck, at an additional cost of ES0.0057 per ton-km.
May 1977



SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Sunnary of Economic Return Analysis
Economic Return (Z)           Sensitivity Analysis of Rate of Return (7) at Market Prices
Economic Cost/        at market    at *hady2          101 increase      107 decrease         107 increase in cost plus         one-year delay
Project Item                      (in million LS)         prices        prices            in costs         in benefits         107 decrease in benefits            in benefits
i)    Resleepering Ha-ya - El Obeid Line               5.0                  39               40              31                 31                           25                          24
ii)   Relaying Khartoum - Sennar Line                  2.3                  17               20              15                 15                           13                          14
iii)  Upgrading El-Rahad - Babanousa Line               8.5                 15               14              13                  13                          12                           13
iv)   Workshops                                         3.3                 65               62              60                  59                          54                           46
v)    Rolling Stock                                    13.3                  23              20              21                  21                          19                           19
vi)   ii) and iii) combined                            10.8                  15              15              14                 13                           12                           13
Total Project-/                         43.2                  27               24              24                 24                           21                           22
1/ Excluding duties and taxes.
2/ For foreign exchange only at LS 1 = US$ 2.00
3/ lxcluding items like training school for which benefits cannot be quantified.
Source:  Bank staff
may 1977



CHART 1
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
TRAFFIC DENSITY CHART 1975/1976
APPROXIMATE PAYING NET TONS (000's)
DISTANCE IN BRACKETS (KILOMETRES)
WADI HALFA
(324)  42
KAR I MA  s(222)
92
ATBARA
I            JJ~~~KASSA LA
KHARTOUM
O       EL OBEID                17187 /
(335)        co< (363)               (350
< rJ-                                   837             I SENNAR
na   164 197
z~~~~~~
cc                         93  427)
87 (446)
DAMAZINE
WAU
World 13ank - 16776
anuary 197 7



CHART 2
WADI HALFA
SRC's FORECAST OF TRAFFIC DENSITY IN 1982/83
APPROXIMATE PAYING NET TONS (000's)
DISTANCE IN BRACKETS (KILOMETRES)
(324)  7             /o
(222)
KARIMA      434
NC/
ATBARA
-' 2,853
KASSALA
KHARTOUM
3 2,285         /           X
EL OBEID
o 
'~~~~             (363                        2,602 
r     319                                                                             ARNtA
WAU                                                        DAMAZINE
January 1977                                                                                                     World BnkW - 16787



SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL
Minister of Transport
and Communications
Dr. Bashir Abadi
Railway Board
Chairman and
General Manager
Mohamed Abdel
Rahman Wasf i
DeuyGnral                                               Deputy General                                            DeuyGnrl
.Manager - RgosMne -Technical                                                                                  Manager - Finance
Manager - RegionsanTrfi
Vacant                                 ~~~~and Traffic                                            and Economy
Abbas Ali Ragi                                           Ibrahim Hag Ali
_                                      z                          _     -   ~~~~~~~~           ~~                    ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch. Civil  ,
Traffic Manager       Ch. Mechan.            EnierDeco
Asst. G. M.                 .                        TrAbdel Ghafour        Engineer               Yahia Abdel                    Fin, and Economy
Vacant                                               Tef.                  Salih Mohamed                                          Fn  n   cnm
Tewlik                Eltayeb                Hamid Shams                    Vacant
Eltayeb        ~~El Din
Manager                                            E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~astge                      ACcountanth  stb                                                                           C. rinn
* er  Manager                  Manager              Mane                   Manager            Aci f c                  Stores        |h lishe. Esb                                        C. Traffice n
M g                  West Region              Central                                     North                                        Controller                                  lishm, Offic          Officer
So. Regon                                                           Region                                    Moh. El                                      Research                 El Sir Ab-            Ali Ahmah
Vaca                 Abdel Salam              Region                Badri                 Region              Hassan Osman             Kha|as              Officer                  dalla                 Abdel
Vaca   ~ ~ ~ alh               II        Vacant                 adiVacant                                IasbrsanAhidmam                                                      dla                     be
-'~'   - I   _    Ibrahim                Obeidalla                                    Ahmed Fahmi              Gahalla               Rahim
World Bank - 16778
January 1977



CHART 3-B
Sudan Railways Corporation Organization Chart
Regions
Regional
Manager
Deputy Manager  1         Deputy Manager            Deputy Manager
Operations    l       Mech. Engineeringj.       Civil Engineering
IChief Section           IChief Section             IChief Section
Operations     J      Mch. Engineering           JCivil EngineeringJ
January 1977



CHART 4
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
DIAGRAM OF RAIL WEIGHTS
WADIHALFA
I
I
v;
PORTSUDAN
KARIMA       222K. -
90 lb/yd (45 Kg/ml rail                                                       _  HAIYA
mwm_   75 Ib/yd (37.5 Kg/mi rail
_ ___SO lb/yd (25 Kg/m) rail                       ATBARA               r
......... indicates upgrading to next level                 /
Figures represent lengths in Kms                  I
4
O oBE
I*           RESLEEPERED
PROPOSED
KHARTOUM            90 Ib./yd. RAIL     .o  X    KASSALA
EL OBEID                      "NoC
I  o          PROPOSED 
|   fi      751Ib./yd. RAIL 
.1
WAU
World Bank - 16777
January 1977






IBRD 12615
SUDAN                                         "FF   E tR.V
'TRANSPORTATIO           I    B, V A
INFRASTRUCTURE    Xx                                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E  D
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Aipot
-   uwoivA TurF,-d Rwcds
- -  t4nov,d Trpcks>Akiepsen  . I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  I
*  Notoncd CcpitoI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E .
N0R  F U  R         NOK)R  DTHER  N 
D.     A R F U R          KA0F    0         N
S)AFRICA  7~~~~J                  nb~fl~~7N'~~          EQUA,dtR EA
t                                    12'7~~~~~~~



