Document of
AXE CJS}                          The World Bank
FOR OCFF]CIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2005a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
June 9, 1977
This document bs a restdcted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the perform ce of
their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank nuthorlzition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency LTnit  =  Sudanese Pounds (ES)
US$1            = bS 0.400
hS I            = US$2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2      =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )     =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                 2.2 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (ton)           =  2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 feddan                     =  1.038 acres (ac)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
SRC     -  Sudan Railways Corporation
SPC     -  Sea Ports Corporation
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
ILO     - International Labour Organisation
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
RTC     - River Transport Corporation
CAD     - Civil Aviation Department
RBPC    - Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
SMTCR   - Southern Region Ministry of Transport
and Communications
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR 1/
July 1 - June 30
1/   Years given in this report refer to the 12 months
ending June 30 in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
SUDAN
FOURTH RAILWAYS PROJECT
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:   Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC)
Amount:        A Loan of US$12 million equivalent, in various currencies.
A Credit of US$8 million equivalent.
Terms:         The Loan would be at 4.2 percent interest, the first repay-
ment being on January 15, 1983 and the final maturity on
January 15, 2001. The Credit would be on standard IDA
terms. The proceeds of the loan and the credit would be
on-lent to SRC at 8% interest, for a term of 20 years, with
4 years grace.
Project
Description:   The proposed project comprises SRC's investment requirements
during the first three years (1977/78 - 1979/80) of the Govern-
ment's Six-Year Development Plan. It includes the establish-
ment of new diesel locomotive and wagon workshops, sleeper
renewal over 500 km of track, rail renewal over 344 km, com-
pletion of the rail communications network, purchase of 10
replacement diesel locomotives and 400 wagons, purchase of
locomotive spare parts, completion of the Atbara railway
training school, and technical assistance in workshop design
and organization. It is designed to enable SRC to carry
the anticipated traffic up to about 1980/81.
Cost and
Financing:     The cost of the project can be summarized as follows:
US$ million
Local    Foreign    Total
Track Improvements           33.6       26.7       60.3
Workshops                      5.5       5.4       10.9
Rolling Stock,
Locomotives, etc.           18.3      30.3       48.6
Training and Technical
Assistance                   1.1       1.4        2.5
Contingencies                 11.0       8.3       19.3
Total                   69.5       72.1      141.6
This document his retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The proposed loan and credit would finance workshop equipment
and locomotive components, equipment for a new training school,
track equipment, radio communications and train control equip-
ment. The balance of the foreign exchange costs would be pro-
vided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund and the
European Development Fund.
Estimated
Disbursements:                             (US$ million)
Year Ending June 30
1978     1979      1980     1981     1982
1.5      5.5      8.0       4.5      0.5
Technical
Assistance:    The project would finance consultant services for designing
the new locomotive workshop, for the initial establishment of
the central training school and designing and implementing the
work organization for the new locomotive workshop. Identifi-
cation of further needs for track improvement will be carried
out with financing under Credit 614-SU.
Rate of
Return:        The estimated rate of return for the total project would be 27%.
Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 1459-SU dated June 6, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNKAIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Report and Recommendation of the President to the Executive
Directors on a Proposed Loan and Credit to the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan for a Fourth Railway Project
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of $12 million and a proposed credit for the equiv-
alent of $8 million to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, to help finance
a fourth railway project. The loan would be on standard Third Window terms,
the first repayment being on January 15, 1983 and the final maturity on
January 15, 2001. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. The grant
element for the World Bank Group's participation would be 58%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Economic Memorandum distributed to the Board in September 1976
(Report No. 1273a-SU) provides a recent assessment of the economic situation
and prospects of the Sudan. The report also provided part of the basic docu-
mentation for the Consultative Group Meeting in November 1976. Prior to
that Bank staff had participated in the ILO Comprehensive Employment Strat-
egy Mission and played a major role in both the conception and execution of
the mission's work. Whilst the mission was an employment strategy mission,
its focus, as with previous ILO missions, was on the overall problem of income
creation for low-income earners in the context of a more rapidly growing
economy. The mission's report is comparable to a Bank basic economic report
and its analysis and conclusions are the basis both for our developing dialogue
on economic policy issues with the Government and for the development of our
program of operations. The report has been influential in stimulating discus-
sion of development policy issues in the country. A special government
working group reviewed the report and prepared a substantive and lengthy
evaluation of its analysis and conclusions. The report also provides a major
input into the preparation of the Six Year Plan for 1977-83. Social and
economic data on Sudan are attached as Annex I.
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the larg-
est country in Africa, with a population of about 16.3 million. Much of the
country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many
developing countries, there is no population pressure on presently devel-
oped land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or semi-
desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricultural
development. Estimates indicate that about one-third (95 million hectares)
of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only
a small fraction of this land is presently utilized at all intensively. In
addition, the White Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water
which has enabled the country to develop the largest irrigation system in
tropical Africa. The Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to over
half of that allocated to it under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but
1/   Part I of this report is identical to that contained in report no.
P-2022a-SU, dated May 18, 1977, except for the addition of paragraph 19.



- 2 -
there remains room for considerable further expansion in irrigation. The
proximity of Sudan to markets in the Middle East and Europe places it ir.
a good position for agricultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries
have increasingly come to consider Sudan as a primary future source of agri-
cultural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is
still a poor country and is classified by the U.N. as a least developed
country. The most recent estimate of per capita GNP of $290 (1975) is based
upon estimates of national accounts of questionable reliability and appears to
exaggerate the standards of living of the people of Sudan and the state of
development of its economy. Certainly, there are large areas of the country
where most of the people have very low incomes. The economy is still heavily
dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced on
irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its
considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing
sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural
commodities, it is limited to the production of consumer goods and building
materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and development of
these deposits is taking place. The public sector has long been important in
the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways and virtually all power and water supply. With the nationalization
measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry, commerce and
finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some industrial
enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is
still generated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of in-
vestment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
current expenditure was caused by increasing security expenditures, the
policy of hiring all post secondary school graduates and converting casual
labor on public projects into permanent government employees and rapidly
increasing transfers to local government. Further, savings generated by
public corporations also declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing
policies. Public sector deficits were increasingly financed through exces-
sive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the external position was
under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation of ex-
port volume.
6.        The period since 1973 contrasts sharply with the preceding decade in
many important respects. First, there has been a sharp increase in invest-
ment, especially in the public sector, with expenditures directed at the
priority sectors--transportation and other infrastructure, agriculture and
agricultural processing industries. Second, there has been a serious concern
with developmental issues reflected most prominently in widespread discussion
at the political and technocratic level of the problems of economic growth in



the Sudan since the ILO issued its report in 1975. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment has shown a willingness to discuss its economic problems openly. Not
only is this reflected in the continuous and serious dialogue on these
problems in which the Bank has been engaged with the Government over the past
two years but it has been most strongly reflected in the very frank report
which the Government prepared for the Consultative Group meeting in November
1976. This report and the Bank's own very critical evaluation of Sudanese
development performance and prospects were freely discussed by the Government
with delegations to the CG meeting. Most recently, in January, the Government
organized an informal meeting of representatives of national and international
financial institutions, chaired by President Nimeiry and attended by all the
economic ministers at which a frank presentation of the developmental issues
was encouraged. Whilst all this increased interest in developmental issues
does not substitute for action, it is a necessary precondition for action and
certainly represents a marked change from the situation existing a few years
ago.
7.        This concern over developmental issues is being institutionalized
through the development of an effective planning machinery, with the assis-
tance of a UNDP planning project of which the Bank is the executing agent.
The Six Year Plan covering the period 1977-83 which is due to be launched in
July 1977 would be the most immediate and important outcome of this effort.
A comprehensive education sector review conducted with Bank and UNESCO
assistance has recently been completed, while an exercise to develop a
primary health care program has just been completed with the help of WHO.
Recent Economic Developments and Issues
8.        Over the five year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent--a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income, and the spurt in development expenditures
in other key sectors of the economy. Investment, which increased from
US$75 million in 1972/73 to about US$325 million in 1975/76, has been concen-
trated on the highest priorities. Wheat and sugar imports should be elimi-
nated by 1978; sugar will be available for export by 1979, reaching an
estimated volume of one million tons in 1985. Textile and sacking imports
will be much reduced by 1978/79. Medium staple cotton, groundnuts and some
other commodities will be available for export in larger quantities, an oil
pipeline is nearing completion, and both road and rail capacity are rising,
helping to ease the transport bottleneck.
9.        While the increased rate of investment on the part of the public
sector is in sharp contrast with the relative stagnation of the late sixties
and early seventies, in most other respects, the standard of economic man-
agement needs improvement. In particular the budgetary situation is a matter
of concern. Despite a good record in revenue raising, which is reflected in
a revenue/GDP ratio currently about 20 percent, the public sector continues
to be a net dis-saver. As a consequence, public investment has had to be



financed entirely through domestic and foreign borrowing. The resulting
credit expansion has been an important contributory factor to domestic price
increases averaging over 20 percent in the last three years.
10.       Externally, the increased pace of public investment coincided
with the higher rates of international inflation, which began in 1973,
and the recession in industrialized countries, which adversely affected
export earnings. The volume of cotton exports in FY74-75 was 45 percent
below the average of the preceding three years. A number of domestic
factors, including an unfavorable cost-price structure, also contributed
to this decline. As a result, the foreign exchange constraint to growth
and the budgetary difficulties were exacerbated. A major consequence of
these developments was a resort to foreign borrowing to finance development
expenditures and to support the balance of payments. From an average of $50
million in 1971-73 gross disbursements of foreign loans rose to $450 million
in 1974, and in the last two years have been of the order of $350 million,
annually. Excluding 1974 when the severity of the terms of borrowing reduced
the grant element of loan commitments by about half, Sudan has managed to
borrow on relatively concessionary terms, reflected in average terms of 4%
interest rate, 24 years maturity and 6 years grace in the period 1970-75.
Nevertheless, the sharply increased borrowing in the last few years, a sig-
nificant proportion of which was in the form of quick-disbursing cash loans,
has resulted in a quadrupling of external public debt between 1972 and 1975
and has imposed a heavy debt servicing burden on the country (see para. 14).
Furthermore, the central bank has repeatedly had to borrow abroad in order
to finance the increasing overall deficit. As a result, Sudan's net inter-
national reserve position moved from net liabilities of less than $45 mil-
lion at the end of December 1970 to $500 million in September 1976.
11.       Confronted with these problems, the Government of Sudan has taken
a number of measures. So far as internal fiscal management is concerned, con-
sumer subsidies have been sharply reduced, defence expenditure restrained and
railway and utility tariffs increased. On the revenue side, tax measures in-
troduced in the 1976/77 budget are estimated to add about 10 percent to Gov-
ernment revenue. As recently as January, these measures were supplemented
by additional measures designed to increase tariff and other indirect taxes
on luxury consumer goods, while reducing those on essential consumer goods.
The net effect of these measures is a small increase in revenues. In any
case, with the Government already absorbing about 20 percent of GDP in the
form of current receipts, it would be unrealistic in the short-run to expect
any significant increase in the level of taxation, and essential improvement
in Government savings and reduction in credit expansion will have to come
from holding the growth of recurrent expenditures below the growth of revenue.
12.       So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is re-
quired in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures do
not exceed appropriated amounts. Additionally, budgetary transfers from the
central to provincial and, through them to local, governments need to be
placed on a basis which is permanently sustainable. So far as the capital



budget is concerned there is a danger of over-commitment with too many pro-
jects being started and their completion delayed. In this connection, the
recurrent expenditure implication of public investment outlays needs serious
consideration.
13.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reforms in the tax
system should be to make it development-oriented. This requires a reduc-
tion in the reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based
consumption taxes and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the
growth in the modern agricultural sector. Another important aspect of
resource mobilization is the role of parastatals. While the public sector
in Sudan dominates all non-traditional economic activities, public enter-
prises have failed to generate adequate surpluses to finance development
expenditures, and their operational deficits have become a drain on the
Government budget. The Government is starting a comprehensive review of the
operations and performance of parastatal organizations. Bank staff will be
assisting in the review.
14.       Finally, the recent build up of external public debt and the for-
eign liabilities of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt
management and a further strengthening of the external debt control machinery.
In particular, in view of the rapidly rising debt service burden, currently 24
percent, (projected to peak at about 31 percent in 1978) and in order 'that the
debt service ratio falls to more manageable levels in the early 1980's, it is
essential for Government to borrow on concessionary terms and to restrict
borrowing to that required for priority investments. In addition to factors
described above (para. 10) which were responsible for the build up of external
public debt, the debt management problem in Sudan is also one of knowledge:
the multiplicity of agencies in the government dealing with some aspects of
data collection or debt management makes it difficult to obtain a comprehen-
sive and accurate picture of Sudan's external debt transactions. New proce-
dures to ensure better debt management were introduced by a decree issued in
February 1976 which confined the authority -to contract foreign loans to the
Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy. The Bank in July 1976
presented the Sudanese Government with an analysis of Sudan's debt data and
made recommendations for the centralization and analysis of such data.
Short-and Long-term Prospects
15.       The preceding discussion shows the Sudanese economy to be in a
transitional situation from a slowly growing economy, heavily dependent
on the fortunes of a single crop (cotton) and hindered by physical bottle-
necks, especially in transportation, to a more rapidly growing economy
with more diversified production and exports. The process of change is
hindered by serious deficiencies in the policy framework and is accompanied
by serious financial problems. While the budgetary and balance of payments
problems facing the economy are acute and deeply rooted, it is nevertheless
imperative for the Government to take steps to improve parastatal efficiency,
encourage public sector savings, and maintain more effective balance of
payments and debt management policies. The IMF is currently having discus-
sions with the Government on the short-run economic problems.



- 6 -
16.       The medium-to long-run objectives of the Sudanese Government, as
expressed in the draft of the Six-Year Plan, recently adopted by the Sudan
Socialist Union, include a rapid increase in the growth of GDP (7.5 percent
per annum in 1977-83), and emphasis on redressing regional inequalities in
incomes. During the plan period, development strategy will continue to
emphasize agriculture as the leading sector, but its structural interdepend-
ence with other sectors, particularly manufacturing will be stressed through
agricultural processing, the production of basic agricultural inputs and
implements, and the promotion of small scale and cottage industry. Consider-
able investment will also go into further reduction and removal of critical
bottlenecks in physical and institutional infrastructure.
17.       Because of the balance of payments and budgetary difficulties,
the growth prospects of Sudan depend significantly on foreign capital in-
flows and on policies to encourage private investment. Indeed, one of the
crucial assumptions underlying the Government's plan is the expectation of
large inflow of loan and equity capital. The realization of this expecta-
tion, in turn , will depend significantly on the role played by the oil-
rich Arab countries. In the last few years the Arab countries have emerged
as the largest source of capital assistance to Sudan. On a disbursement
basis, Arab aid (excluding the $200 million Euro-dollar loan guaranteed by
Saudi Arabia) increased from $33 million in 1972 to a peak of $220 million
in 1974. Whilst a large proportion of these disbursements has been for bal-
ance of payments support, Arab assistance has been vital in such key proj-
ects as the Rahad Irrigation Project, the oil-pipeline, the proposed airport
at Port Sudan, a number of highway projects, sugar schemes and a microwave
project. For the future, of much potential significance is the ten-year
Basic Agricultural Development Program for the Sudan, prepared by the Arab
Fund for Social and Economic Development. Over the next six years (1977-83)
a First Phase Investment Plan, which will form the core of Sudan's Six-Year
Development Plan and consist of some 61 projects selected from the basic
program, is expected to be implemented at a to.tal cost of about $2 bil-
lion. To help implement the agricultural program, twelve Arab Governments
on November 1, 1976 signed an agreement establishing an autonomous body,
the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Development (AAAID).
The Authorized capital of AAAID has been established at US$510 million, of
which 75 percent has been subscribed. The Authority is limited to a debt/
equity ratio of 2:1. Ratification of the AAAID agreement is at an advanced
stage and steps are being taken to commence operations.
18.       To support the directly productive investment envisaged by the
Arab Fund's program, large amounts of concessionary loans and grants will
be needed to finance infrastructural projects. Official bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies, including Arab agencies, are expected to contribute to the
program. Several donor agencies which have lent to Sudan in the past are
expanding their programs and others are starting programs in Sudan for the
first time. Local cost financing is justified in certain cases for project
with a high local cost component and which are designed primarily to benefit
the poor.



- 7 -
19.       Sudan is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window
terms on the basis of the following criteria:
(1) Per Capita Income in 1975 - $290 (but see para. 4).
(2) Performance - A rapidly rising public investment program
concentrated in the priority sectors which is alleviating
the infrastructural bottleneck and will also result in
increased output and exports starting about 1978.
(3) Ability to Repay - Despite the high debt service ratio
projected up to 1980, Sudan's strong resource base, on-
going investment and the generally good development
prospects make it creditworthy for a limited amount
of Bank lending on intermediate terms.
(4) Access to Alternative Sources of Capital - Although
Sudan is expected to have access to substantial amounts
of development capital from the Arab countries, its
ability to draw on such funds will to an important
extent depend on the availability of well conceived
investment proposals. The Bank Group's program of
operations is designed to play an important catalytic
role in assisting Sudan to prepare and obtain finance
for high priority projects.
20.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the
last three years. However, Sudan faces severe balance of payments and do-
mestic resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst these are
familiar problems in several developing countries, they are especially acute
in the Sudan. The country's medium-term prospects, however, look particularly
bright. These opportunities derive not only from the availability of foreign
capital, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential of the coun-
try. However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been outlined in
the preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects are to be real-
ized. The Government has shown its willingness in recent months to discuss
openly the economic problems facing the country, and it is our hope that it
will follow this up with policy measures to address them. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of development
by helping channel resources into the priority sectors in our project work,
by extending technical assistance to improve project identification, prepara-
tion and implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on policy
issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
21.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $359.5



-8-
million. Emphasis in our past lending has been on irrigated agriculture
and railway development, but other projects financed have included two power
projects, two education projects, a highways project, a domestic aviation
project, three agriculture projects, two credits to a development finance
company and a technical assistance credit. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of April 30,
1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. The Bank/IDA share of
debt service is 10% (1976).
22.       Physical progress in implementing Bank Group operations in the
Sudan varies, but in general is quite good. Most projects have experienced
difficulty in getting key materials such as cement, motor fuels and timber, of
which there is a nationwide shortage. Most projects have also experienced
delays in delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation deficien-
cies. But, with the exception of the First Education Project, whose imple-
mentation difficulties have been compounded by very weak management, these
difficulties have been manageable. The Rahad Irrigation Project, which
earlier experienced numerous difficulties, is being constructed with real
determination. Although physical progress under the Third Railway Project is
satisfactory, progress in achieving the operational improvements has been
disappointing. Disbursements on IDA credits to Sudan have picked up in the
last year and are running at a rate of about $35 million per annum. This rate
should increase further (see Annex II).
23.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group can render a useful service by assisting with the
identification and preparation of a relatively large number of projects,
and by actively associating bilateral and other multilateral sources with
the financing of these projects. The technical assistance credit approved
by the Board in February 1976 is designed to assist in this way. The pro-
gress of this project is good and several preparation studies have been
authorized under this credit.   The Consultative Group last met in November
1976, and the various agencies represented indicated levels of lending to
Sudan which will make a significant contribution to maintaining the level of
investment.
24.       The Bank Group's lending strategy in Sudan will continue to empha-
size agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture we
expect to continue with a two-pronged strategy of investmenc to realize
existing production potential in the modern sector, while laying the founda-
tions for future production increases in the traditional agriculture. We are
assisting the Government in preparing projects in irrigation, mechanized
farming and livestock. The Second Education Project now under implementation
emphasizes training in the rural areas. We are starting identification of
future education projects on the basis of the recently completed sector
survey. Lack of transport facilities continues to hamper movement of goods
within the country and to the outside world. A Second Highway Project is
under preparation, and included in most agriculture projects is a feeder road
component. A ports project is under discussion with the Government and a
fourth railway project is the subject of this report. With the two credits
to the Industrial Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group is supporting private invest-
ment in the growing industrial sector. Other projects under consideration
include fisheries, power and water supply and agricultural credit.



PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
25.       The last Bank review of the transportation sector was carried
out by a mission which visited Sudan In late 1971 and reported its findings
in June 1972 (Volume IV of Report No. AE-27). In summary, the report con-
cluded that cohesive development in the Sudan is hindered by the consider-
able distances between potential areas of production and consumption, which
for the most part are not connected by adequate and reliable transport facil-
ities. Until very recently, this summary remained valid, and for the most
part the transportation situation Is very little changed now from that in
1971. What has changed Is that In the last three years the Government has
undertaken a very large investment program in the transportation sector,
as the spearhead of its development program. This will have a progressively
larger impact on the economy from 1977 onwards. The following table illus-
trates the scale of the recent increase in investment.
Public Sector Transportation Investment
(SUDE millions)
Annual            Annual          Annual
Average           Average         Average        Estimate
1966-70           1971-74         1974-76        1976-77
Railways               3.2              2.6             13.7           16.0
Ports                  0.3              -                0.7           2.5
River Transport        0.1              0.4              2.2            0.9
Roads a/               0.4              3.0             22.0           29.0
Oil Pipelines           -               -                n.a.          n.a.
Airports               0.1              0.4            (              (
Sudan Airways          0.3             2.1             ( 8.9          ( 2.6
Total                  4.4              8.5             47.5          51.0
a/   Excludes expenditure on the Chinese financed Wad Medani-Gedaref road.
Despite the higher capital cost of projects In the last three years, undoubtedly
a large real increase in investment has taken place. A continued high level
of expenditure is expected In the next few years.
26.       The background to the much larger scale of investment has been
described in general terms In Part I of this report. While the investment
decisions taken so far have been in response to a general conviction that
little significant expansion in the economy, and particularly in agricultural
production, could take place unless the necessary transportation was provided
first, transport investment in the future is likely to be guided more by
explicit plans, such as the national plan for 1977-83. Detailed analysis
of several individual investment possibilities is under way, and some
details of these are provided In the following paragraphs.



- 10 -
27.       The Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) continues to be the backbone
of Sudan's transportation system, carrying about 70% of all freight and
passenger movements in Sudan. However, it continues to operate at a level
of efficiency below that attained in the mid-1960s. As a consequence of
this and of a low level of investment In past years, SRC has not ueen able
to carry all the traffic offered and has been providing an unsatisfactory
level of service. In short, the capacity of the railway became a real
barrier to economic growth. The Government's response has been three-fold:
first, to authorize investment in the railway to eliminate equipment defi-
ciencies and shortages; second, to commission a detailed analysis of SRC's
technical operations to determine the causes of low efficiency and to plan
for improved training facilities; and third, to authorize investment in
other transportation facilities (an oil pipeline and a major road) to
reduce the economy's dependence on the railway system.
28.       A start was made in improving SRC's performance under the Third
Railway Project financed by IDA and an audit of the Second Bank Group Railway
Project also helped to identify the problems. The analysis of SRC's technical
operations carried out by the Australian Railways and a workshop specialist
employed by the Bank, identified a variety of operational deficiencies contri-
buting to the low level of efficiency. Additional training and recruitment of
further technical skills is planned to help overcome these deficiencies.
SRC's recent reorganization is also intended to improve management responsive-
ness to day-to-day needs. Recent investment on the railways included a 50%
increase in mainline diesel locomotives, additional shunting engines, wagons,
equipment upgrading and telecommunications. SRC is hopeful that, with this
investment, it can improve operating efficiency. Systematic planning of
further requirements has resulted in the investment proposals described in
Part IV of this report. The immediate needs are for additional workshop
facilities and track improvements and for some rolling stock. Whatever the
attractions of road transport, the latter is unlikely to be able to compete
with the railway on price in the long distance haulage of relatively low value
bulk agricultural produce, which will be the major surplus produce in Sudan
requiring transport.
29.       At the present time, Sudan is extraordinarily dependent on the
railway line to/from Port Sudan for movement of both its exports and imports.
With the expansion in traffic envisaged, comprehensive development of the
transportation system to meet varied needs forms part of the Government's
strategy for the transportation sector. Two major investments are an oil
pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum, which will both release railway ca-
pacity for general freight and release oil wagons for up-country oil dis-
tribution, and the Port-Sudan--Wad Medani road, which will provide the
first all-weather road between the most productive regions of Sudan and
the port.
30.       The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) is responsible
for the national highway network. At present, this is a very ill-developed
system, with only some 700 kilometers of bitumenized road. The investment
currently under way is, however, increasing the length of modern roads
rapidly. Apart from the Port Sudan--Wad Medani road, which is expected to
cost in excess of $250 million, other road projects under implementation



include roads'to serve major agricultural areas in the Blue Nile region,
and the upgrading of regional access roads in the'Nuba mountain region, in
Darfur and to the Uganda frontier in Southern Sudan. Partly as a result
of the lack of railway capacity and partly due to the current investment
activity, there has been a major increase in long distance motor vehicle
use. Despite the rough road conditions, the numbers of road vehicles enter-
ing and leaving Port Sudan on long distance journeys increased from about
1,300 vehicles a month in 1971 to about 8,000 vehicles in 1976, an increase
of over 500%. Feasibility and engineering studies for additional components
of the trunk road network are underway and are expected to lead to further
major investments within the next two years. More attention will be given
to the need for rural access roads as the agriculture investment program
is implemented. Clearly, the maintenance capacity of RBPC and the provin-
cial highway authorities will require upgrading. This was a principal focus
of IDA's first highway project and will be emphasized in the proposed second
project.
31.       Port Sudan, the only port in the country, is managed by the Sea
Ports Corporation. While the port can handle the current level of traffic,
the investment under way and planned elsewhere in the economy dictates the
need for additional port capacity. Two recently completed studies will
provide the basis for investment planning both at Port Sudan and at Suakin,
40 kilometers further south. The government is currently considering the
proposals made in these studies and a project for possible IDA financing is
expected to emerge from these deliberations.
32.        Southern Sudan is served by two methods of moving lower-value
freight--the railway branch to Wau and river transport to Malakal and Juba.
A large investment program, in barges and tugs, is currently underway on
the river but a more important need is for RTC to make better use of its
existing plant and equipment. A recently-completed study of the River
Transport Corporation has provided the basis for planning future investment
and has identified technical assistance requirements.
33.       In view of the size of the country, over 2,000 kilometers long
and 1,800 kilometers broad, aviation is likely to play an increasing role
in meeting the domestic transportation needs. Whether looked at from the
standpoint of either the cost of creating alternative surface transport
or of travel time, aviation offers major advantages. Against this back-
ground, the Government had to decide how to upgrade the services provided
between Khartoum and the twelve principal regional airports, which can be
grouped into three or four sub-groups. Upgrading of any one sub-group would
benefit services to all the sub-groups, by facilitating use of faster, more
efficient aircraft for more hours per day. The Government's choice was
to work first on three southern airports and on Port Sudan airport, the
busiest of the regional airports. It has also acquired two new aircraft
for domestic services, which will expand the domestic capacity of the
airline, Sudan Airways. The Bank/IDA made a loan and a credit in mid-
1976 to implement part of the airport development program.
34.       Until now, transportation planning has consisted chiefly of
considering different technical options to meet a specific need, identified
largely on the basis of common sense. Transportation planning in the future,



- 12 -
however, will become more complex. The major expansion in planned agricultural
and industrial production will increase the need for a capacity to assess the
type and timing of transportation investment. Questions of intermodal choice
are beginning to emerge and pricing questions need to be faced. Important
analyses of the investment needs of the sector over the next 10-15 years have
been carried out recently by the Associates for the Development of Arab
Resources (ADAR) who prepared a transportation master plan for the Sudan with
Kuwait Fund financing, and by the ILO mission. The ADAR study contributed to
the analysis of the transportation needs of agriculture contained in the Arab
Fund report on the agricultural prospects of Sudan. Some steps have been
taken to create an improved planning capability in the sector, and EDI has
conducted two transportation project analysis courses in Sudan during 1975
and another early this year. A planning unit was recently created in the
Ministry of Transportation, which will be able to continue the work initiated
by the ADAR study. Meanwhile the Ministry of National Planning undertook
some transport planning studies in connection with the preparation of the
Six-Year Development Plan (1977-83).
35.       Apart from road transport, all the modes of transport are owned
by public corporations. They are revenue earning enterprises, and should
be able to contribute usefully to the financing of transportation investment.
Since one of the weaknesses of the Government's financial management has
been the low level of public savings, the next four paragraphs examine the
financial position of the public sector transportation corporations.
36.       By far the largest is the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC).    Be-
tween 1972 and 1975 SRC incurred losses. Broadly speaking, the causes of
the losses were declining traffic carried, due to poor maintenance; sharp
cost increases, notably in oil products; and tariff levels which still
reflected government endeavors to minimize price increases affecting the cost
of living. Since July 1975, SRC's financial results have been better, and
with the increase in tonnage carried recently, SRC became profitable again
in 1976, when operating revenues covered all operating expenses, including
depreciation and interest. It is worth noting that the lines extending to
the west and south of the country are likely to require cross-subsidization
by the rest of the network until the traffic on those sections reaches higher
levels.
37.       Port Sudan has been consistently profitable for several years,
and the Sea Ports Corporation should be able to generate surpluses at a
level adequate to support future expansion. The River Transport Corpora-
tion (RTC) has operated for the last ten years at a loss varying between
20% and 60% of operating costs. In the regions in which it operates, the
Corporation has a virtual monopoly. However, the regions served are among
the poorest and most remote in the country and it may well be considered
justifiable at the present stage of development for the Government to sub-
sidize transport services in these regions. The Roads and Bridges Public
Corporation (RBPC) has no significant revenue and operates virtually as a
Government department.
38.       A detailed analysis of the Civil Aviation Department's (CAD)
revenues and expenses, shows that the Department generates a small surplus



- 13 -
after depreciation. The position projected after the higher level of
investment now underway is, in summary, that CAD will earn a profit
after depreciation and interest payments from about 1985. Sudan Airways,
after several years of unprofitable operations, turned the corner in
1975 and is now projected to generate surpluses adequate to cover its
depreciation and interest payments and pay a dividend to the Government.
39.       Thus the financial performance of the transport corporations
varies widely. They are not far from being able to contribute adequately
to financing future investment, but, in view of the importance of these cor-
porations to the economy as a whole and to the financial health of the pub-
lic sector, further improvements are required.
40.       Experience in implementing past transportation projects in Sudan has
been satisfactory, except for the persistent problem of the low operational
efficiency of the railway, which has responded only slowly to measures taken
to improve the situation. As indicated in Part IV, however, some improvement
is taking place. Given the critical importance of transportation to the
economy, there needs to be constant attention to the operational and financial
strength of the transport corporations.
PART IV - The Project
41.       The proposed project would form a key element of the transporta-
tion investment program in the first three years of the Six-Year Plan for
1977-83. The project is based on traffic forecasts made by Sudan Railways
Corporation (SRC), an analysis of workshop requirements carried out by a
consultant to the Bank, and on a set of operational objectives agreed between
SRC and Bank staff. It was appraised by the Bank in November 1976. Negotia-
tions took place in Washington in March 1977. The Sudanese delegation was
led by Dr. Wahab, the Under Secretary of the Ministry of National Planning and
included the Deputy General Manager, Finance of the Sudan Railways Corporation.
A report entitled "Appraisal of a Fourth Railway Project" (No. 1459 SU, dated
June 3, 1977) is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Description and Purpose
42.       The proposed project comprises the investment requirements of the
Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) during the first three years of the Six-
Year Development Plan for the period July 1977-June 1983. Although the Plan
has not been formally adopted yet, it was recently endorsed by the Sudan
Socialist Union, and it is felt that nothing would be gained and much valuable
time lost by delaying a decision on essential investment until such formal
adoption. By limiting the project to a three-year period, and restricting
investment to absolutely essential items that cannot be delayed much longer,
the project probably errs on the side of conservatism. Moreover, it will be
possible, if necessary, to review the proposed investment in rolling stock in
the light of traffic development. The traffic forecasts for this period are



- 14 -
based on detailed work done by SRC's Research Department after allowing for
investment in other modes, especially the Port Sudan - Khartoum pipeline and
road. The detailed projections have been discounted by 20% for purposes
of calculating rolling stock requirements, to allow for a possible slower
growth of traffic. A notable feature of the traffic forecasts is the in-
creasing importance of traffic internal to the country, that is traffic which
neither originates from, nor is destined for, Port Sudan. In the first three
year period, while traffic is expected to grow, and provision must be made
for it, a major emphasis is being placed on further improvements in SRC's
operational performance and on carrying out improvements which will be
essential if SRC is to expand its capacity rapidly in the later years. The
principal components of the project will be expansion of workshop facilities,
completion of telecommunications improvements initiated under the last IDA
project, track renewal and upgrading, purchase of 10 diesel locomotives,
locomotive spare parts and 400 wagons, completion of a railway training school
and technical assistance for design and implementation of the new workshop at
Sennar.
43.       In arriving at its requirements for rolling stock, SRC first
developed targets for levels of operational efficiency, such as locomotive
availability, wagon turn-around times and productivity per employee. These
targets are satisfactory and their achievement would represent a considerable
improvement over recent levels of operational efficiency, which have been
low. In fact one of the major objectives of the third IDA railway project
was to reverse the decline in operational efficiency which began in the
mid-1960s. Although improvements have been disappointingly slow under the
third project, some progress has been recorded, and further progress is
expected (see para 56 below). Contributing to this improvement are a greater
appreciation of the nature of the problems, investment directed at removing
specific equipment deficiencies, regionalization of management, creation of a
central training school, and purchase of additional locomotives of improved
design which has reduced the pressure on existing locomotives, allowing more
time for preventive maintenance. An interesting feature of the project is
that an attempt will be made to devise a new form of work organization in the
new Sennar workshop, conducive to better standards of work. If successful,
this could be replicated elsewhere in the Corporation. Apart from consultant
services to help design the new work organization, the project will also
finance technical services for the training school, workshop design, loco-
motive testing systems and communications maintenance.
44.       The project will be executed by SRC itself.    Physical implementa-
tion of the previous IDA project has been satisfactory. Although, about
$11 million of the previous credit is still undisbursed, the credit is fully
committed and disbursements are now expected to be rapid.
Cost Estimates and Financing
45.       The total project cost is estimated at LS 56.6 million (US$141.6
million), of which LS 28.8 (US$72.1 million) is in foreign exchange. LS 12.4
million of the local costs represent local taxes and duties. It is proposed
to finance the project in the following way, the foreign exchange being pro-
vided on the basis of parallel financing arrangements:



- 15 -
US$ Million
Local      Foreign       Total      %
Bank (Third Window)                      -         12.0          12.0 )
)    14
IDA                                      -          8.0           8.0 )
FED                                      -          6.6           6.6       5
Kuwait Fund                              -         17.4          17.4      12
Arab Fund                                -         17.4          17.4      12
Abu Dhabi Fund                           -         10.0          10.0       7
Government                             20.1 a/      0.7          20.8      15
Sudan Railways                         49.4          -          49.4       35
Total                             69.5        72.1        141.6      100
/a   Represents deferment of customs duties, to be repaid by Sudan Railways
starting in about 1985.
The Bank Loan and IDA Credit would be on-lent by the Government to SRC at an
annual rate of interest of 8.0%, for a term of 20 years, with 4 years grace.
The Arab Fund, Kuwait Fund and Abu Dhabi Fund loans are assumed to be made
available to SRC on these same terms, but with an interest rate of 4%, in
line with previous experience. The FED contribution will be a grant to the
Government of Sudan, and is treated as an-equity contribution to SRC. Sig-
nature of the agreements of the Arab cofinancing agencies and effectiveness
of the FED grant agreement would be a condition of the effectiveness of the
Bank Loan and IDA Credit agreements (Section 5.01 of the Credit Agreement).
Organization, Management, Staff and Training
46.       The Sudan Railways Corporation was incorporated in 1967, and is run
by a General Manager, who is presently also Chairman of the Board. The Board
includes representatives of the Government, the labor union and the railway
users. Operational responsibility was regionalized among five regions in
1976, in response to a conviction that excessive centralization was leading
to inefficiencies and lack of effective control. The full benefit of this
reorganization will take some time to emerge. SRC has started a management
training program and senior SRC staff have also recently participated in EDI
courses held in Khartoum. It is hoped that the new workshop at Sennar will
set a new standard of maintenance operations in Sudan, which could then be
adopted elsewhere in SRC. This will require adaptability on the part of
management as well as labor.



- 16 -
47.       The need for training among SRC's staff is not being adequately
met. The Third IDA Railway Project provided some assistance for the estab-
lishment of a Central Railway Training School at Atbara. Progress has been
made in establishing the School and the proposed project would finance its
completion. As improved labor productivity results from the expanded train-
ing program and the on-going capital investment, it might be thought possible
to reduce the numbers of railway staff. In practice, however, since some
cities, especially Atbara, are heavily dependent upon SRC for employment,
it is likely to prove difficult to reduce numbers. In comparison with other
railway systems, the numbers of staff are on the high side, but staff costs
are not unusually high as a proportion of operating costs. Nevertheless,
SRC is anxious to improve productivity of its staff, and for purposes of the
financial projections for this project, it is assumed that the only increases
in staff will be those directly related to the running and maintenance of the
increasing numbers of rolling stock.
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       Items financed by the Bank Group would be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines,
except for certain items, such as communications equipment and component
spares, which should be compatible with installed equipment, and contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. Disbursements from the IDA Credit
and Bank Loan would be made on the basis of the CIF (Port Sudan) cost of
imported equipment and materials and the foreign cost of technical services.
Disbursements under the credit would be made before those under the loan.
Accounts and Audit
49.       SRC's accounts follow an acceptable commercial format.    The annual
accounts are submitted, with a general report of SRC's activities, to the
Minister of Transportation and to the national legislature. SRC's accounts
are audited by the Auditor General. This arrangement is satisfactory.
Financial Evaluation
50.       In the years 1973 to 1975 Sudan Railways made an operating loss.
In 1973 and 1974 this was partly a consequence of the loss of a profitable
component, Port Sudan, to the newly created Sea Ports Corporation, and partly
a consequence of declining traffic carried, at a time of steadily rising
costs. Traffic available at that time exceeded that carried, but SRC was
unable to meet the demand. In 1974 costs began to rise rapidly, beginning
with fuel costs and followed by wages and salaries. Although two successive
tariff increases were authorized, losses continued until 1976. It was not
until mid-1976 that, with the introduction of new locomotives, traffic carried
began to climb again. Further large wage and salary increases were again
granted in 1976, but the unaudited 1976 results show that for the first time
since 1972, SRC made a profit after provision for depreciation and interest.
On the basis of current projections, which assume rapid tariff adjustments to
meet future cost increases, SRC will earn a steadily rising profit. The rate



- 17 -
of return on net fixed assets in use is projected at 5.0% in 1978 and should
rise to 6.0% in 1980. An immediate tariff increase is not required to meet
these objectives. The Project Agreement (sections 4.03 and 4.05) requires
that SRC take all necessary measures required to provide SRC with revenues
sufficient to cover its operating expenses and debt service requirements and
earn an annual rate of return of not less than 6% on net fixed assets, in
1981 and thereafter. The Credit Agreement (section 3.03) requires that the
Government cause SRC to be provided with sufficient funds to meet its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement. The prompt supply of spare parts to SRC
will be crucial to maintenance of operational efficiency. SRC has a monthly
allocation of foreign exchange for this purpose and assurances were received
as to the continued adequate provision of foreign exchange (section 3.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement). The proposed project includes a substan-
tial component for locomotive spare parts, and the Government is discussing
with bilateral agencies the possible financing of further spare parts for the
rehabilitation of certain locomotives.
51.       As a result of losses over several years, SRC is in a non-liquid
position, current liabilities exceeding current assets by E 3.1 million.
In order to improve this position, it has been suggested to Government that
it consider injecting additional equity capital into SRC. The less satis-
factory alternative would be for Government to guarantee overdraft facili-
ties for several years, in order to meet future obligations. This matter
also was fully discussed during negotiations and the matter is now under
consideration by the Government. Debt service is calculated on actual or
prospective repayment schedules, while a "dividend" of 5% on the Government's
equity capital has been charged to retained earnings annually.
52.       The financial projections, which assume collections on the average
within 45 days of the date of billing, indicate that SRC can cover its share
of the costs of the proposed project, service its debt, and finance the local
component of the additional capital investment assumed in the financial
projections. Some additional capital commitments will be necessary within
the project period in respect of the large investment requirements for the
second half of the Plan period. The Bank has received assurances that it
will be consulted about such future commitments before they are made. These
consultation arrangements would provide an opportunity to consider these
needs as and when traffic forecasts develop. In order to maintain a satis-
factory debt service coverage, the Bank also received assurances from SRC
that it would not incur new debt if its net cash revenue in a given year
would be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements of any
succeeding year (Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
Economic Justification
53.       The general case for investment in Sudan Railways is overwhelming,
and is related to the long Sudanese distances, the nature of the goods being
transported and the cost of providing alternative forms of transportation.
The distance from Port Sudan to Sennar, for example, is over 1,000 kilome-
ters; the distances from many of the new agricultural developments to Port



- 18 -
Sudan equals or exceeds the distance from St. Louis to New Orleans, or Delhi
to Bombay. The goods carried by Sudan Railways are, and for the foreseeable
future will be, dominated by low-value bulk commodities of which the most
important are cotton, groundnuts, sesame, oil cake and other agricultural
products for export; imports of black oils, fertilizers, iron and steel,
sugar and bulk foods; and in domestic traffic, cement, timber and foodstuffs.
The most rapidly rising traffic is expected to be groundnuts, oil cake,
grain, sugar, fertilizers, iron and steel, cement, black oils and livestock.
Over the Sudanese distances, the cost advantage in favor of rail transport for
these goods is striking and outweigh the benefits of convenience and speed
associated with transport by road. So far as passenger traffic is concerned,
SRC expects to expand its role, especially for those who cannot afford air
travel.
54.       The main quantifiable benefits of the project w.uld be reduced
turn-around times and reduced equipment requirements from upgrading of the
railway track; reduced costs and equipment requirements from an improved
maintenance system; and reduced costs of transportation, vis-a-vis trucking
costs, from the additional locomotives and rolling stock. On the basis of
these quantifiable benefits, the economic return on the project at market
prices is 27%. The rate of return is not excessively sensitive to increased
costs or delayed benefits. However, the achievement of the estimated rate of
return is dependent upon improvements in the operational efficiency of SRC
and upon the growth of traffic at 10% per annum, as forecasted.
55.       Less than 20% of the project investment relates to expected traffic
growth up to 1980 despite an annual growth rate of 10%. However, even with
a traffic growth of only 6%, the additional wagons would still be needed by
1983, and any error would therefore be one of timing rather than need. So far
as SRC's finances are concerned, if actual traffic growth is, say, 25% short
of the projected growth, the impact on SRC for the project period would be a
reduction in revenues (ES 9.2 million), offset slightly by a reduction in
working expenses (bS 2.5 million) and possible deferment of wagon purchases
(bS 4.8 million), resulting in a net reduction in cash flow of only bS 1.9
million.
56.       The proposed project would be the fourth railway project financed
by the Bank Group in Sudan. At the time of the appraisal of the second pro-
ject in 1964/65 it was noted that operating efficiency had improved consider-
ably during the seven years from 1957/58 to 1963/64 and that further improve-
ments could be expected. These expectations were not realized and 1963/64
proved to be a high point in SRC's operations. For a complex of reasons,
technical, human, financial and political, SRC entered a period of steady
decline in operating efficiency. The third railway project approved by the
Board in 1974 began the process of reversing this decline, and signs of
improvement are now discernible. Although we feel that SRC has turned the
corner, restoring operational efficiency is a process which canot be completed
very quickly. At the same time, more is being expected of the SRC now, in
view of the country's large development plans for the future. Much progress
will be necessary to achieve the necessary improvements, but it is believed



- 19 -
that the combination of capital investment to remove equipment deficiencies,
staff training, experiments in work organization and the reorganization of
operational management which underlie the proposed project, provide reasonable
assurance that the operational targets will be met (para. 43).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan and Credit between the Democratic Republic of the
Sudan and, respectively, the Bank and the Association, the draft Project
Agreement between the Bank and the Association and the Sudan Railways Copora-
tion, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and in Article V, Section 1 (d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, respectively, and the texts
of draft resolutions approving the proposed loan and credit are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Principal conditions of the credit and the loan are referred to in
paragraphs 45, 50 and 52, and are summarized at Annex III.
59.       A special condition of effectiveness is signature of the financing
agreements with the Arab cofinancing agencies and effectiveness of the FED
grant agreement.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association and with established
criteria for Third Window loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan and credit.
by J. Burke Knapp
for President
Washington, D.C.
June 9, 1977






0I                                                                    6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  ha.                                                               S~~~A  . 
IL
ha  941                                              0  0~~~0  00  aOm 2               -, S1
N                               3~~~~~~~~~ 
C  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
..P  .. O C S   a  WC  Cs    0                CCC  CCC     C   0  -J  I  IV.C
-  050  -  .N  N-Z .  44   Ofo a -   annCC                                     - wC-N  N C. 
C  ha  I.'  V.  l-  Q.~~'*..  C  CV,  C  CV.                      54   WC,           a -
7  SN  -  C                 U    41                *.C                            ..  -  U~ft~  7 -W  o&  
ha                               a                 --~~~~~~~~~~~~a  W  a0~" :  -!~ 
:fth OS                                         It :                     U
Web  S                           CI                                     S7 
0.1                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- aIaI9.  7- 
du,  C 4N  o                  CZ, -r *  o*-  C   IO S  -o I C   C   C     n         .  a c  
*9  O S                                                   SnIC
NI  S                                                                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-~:.



Page 2 of 4 pagee
NOTES
mba  ocer.inenoteo. data for 1960 refer to .ny year betw*fn 1959 0nd 1961. for 1970 betwen 1968 and 1970, and fur M4oat ReCent Estimate between
N.pu to -igratton population, groch rate Is lowedr than the race of natural increase.
5Morocco h.e be..   selected as an objective country because of certain aiilarities (sixe of population, lack of population pressure, importance
of agriculture. eamber of ~rab World, and access to OPEC assisatnce), and has reached a stege of developeent to which the Sudan might aspire in
the mediud tetma.
S1706N      1960     /    1962;    lb   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ower to total labor force;            /c   1963, Deldrurma  urban;     /d  Including
a.s iotsnt nurses;     /e   Gowervnanmt hospital establishiments.
1970     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and Over to total labor force;            /b   1967-68;     /c GCover eot hospital establishments;
/d  1964-66;      'e  Beginning 1970, the duration of general secondary edasction, was reduced fron 8 to 6 years;               /f  U)rban only.
MOST RECENT ESTlMATR:       /a  Including mlidwives and assistant nurses;        lb   1969.71 average;      Ic   1972;     /d  Beginning 1970, the
duration of general oecondary education wasa reduced frmo 8 to 6 years;           /a   Governmxnt hospitals only.
KENY A      1970     1a   Ratio of population, under 15 end 65 and over to lsbor force 15-59 years;           /b  Labor force age 15-59 years;        Ic   Urban;
/ d  Regiutered, not all practicing in the coutntry;        Is  Total secondsry includes teacher training at the third le-el.
ECYPr       1970     is   1966,     lb  Relates to 12-64 years of age;        /c  Registered, not all Practicing in ths country.
MIOBOCCO    1970     Is   Due to emigration populstion growth rote is lowler thlan the rate of natural increase;            /b  Goverrzent hospital escablishm.nt.
/c 1964-66.
R7, May 10, 1977
MWINMTI 0F SOCIAL.TDMICATWRS
Land Area (thou hs27                                                                       BeuLatbon pner muraims     eo p    o.-Ppulation divided by nnbar of practicing
Total1  Total surf oe area comprising land arsa and inland      acen,                         male oad final  graduste nurses, "tirs  -d" or "c-rtlfied" nurses, and
aSrI.    Most recent estimace of arclularea med tamporarily or pernce-                        soiili.ary Persomma1 with training nr eaperience.
nen tly lot crops, pastures, market A kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                   Ponulation Per ho!gitaL bed - population divided by camber of hospital had.
-vilabla in public and privete gesaral and specialioed hospisi1 sod
CNP per canita (US$) -CNP par capita estimates at currant market prices,                      rehabilitation osmtsrs; excludes nursing hamsa and ostablishms.nt. for
calculated ho Same -oner-ion ntbhd as World lank Atlas (1973-75 basis),                    cstodial and preventiv     care,.
19 60.1970an    1975 dat.                                                                Par capica  0-pm   of osloriss  (% of -enuirsemets) - Compucod froc o-rgy
oqu,valant of -at food suppLies ssilable in tountry par capita per day;
POnulation and vi'ta statistic                                                                avalable oupplies -aprise doxestic production. Imports less exports. .nd
P.sulation (maid-ne- msillion)    ha  f July first    if not available, overage               changes in stock, net eupplies exclude animal f.ed, seeds, quintities used
of t,o endi-year estimates, 1 60, 1970 ond 1975 data,                                       in food processing and losses in distribution; requirclaents were estimated
by FAO based on Physiological needs for norma activity end health cona id-
Pooulatin densitY - or square        - Htld-year population, Per square kilmoter              acing sowirooe-tal tmprcsturs. budy weights, ago and see distributions, of
(IDO hectares) of total aroa.                                                               population, ed allowing 10% for waste at household leve.
?Poulationl density -par sguar. am    f soric  laod - Conputed as bhov    (cc               Per capita supply Of protein (grams per day) - Protein racnent of per capita
agriculturs1 land only                                                                      cet supply of food Per day; nMt supply of food is defined as ahov; rsquire-
mo.to for all countries established by UJSDA Economic Rs....rch Servioss
lr;stfcatieccs                                                                             provide for a oilolo   allowance If 60 gram of tonal protsis per day, and
Crude birtb rats p-t thousad..d   ve--x. - Anou-I Ive births per thousand of                  20 grins. of olimal- and pulse protein, of which 10 gr-m should he. anJIma
oid-year population. ten-yedr arithmatic serages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards sre loal r tha   those of 75 gras of total protein
-sd five.-year aera.ge ending in 1975 for meet recen.t estimdat.                            and 23 grams of animal protein as sn avrage for the world, proposad ho FAO
Crude death rate par thousand, average - Annoual deaths per thousand of mid-yxe.r             in the Third World Food Survy.
Ppopl.tatIo. ten-year arithmetic -vregs ending in 1960 and 1970 and fIe-                  Per, ..Pita protein supply (too a.nial and poise - ProteIn supply of loud
year avrage ending in 1975 for mast re..e.t ..tima ts.                                      derived Icon animals and pulses i agr-n per day.
Infant oottality rats C/thou) - Ansnual deaths of infata under one yssr of age              Death rate (C/hou)   R..s 1-4 - AnnuAl deaths per thcusa.d in age group 1-4,
per thousand lIve births.                                                                   years, to children in this age group; -Sugg-ted -s     n indicator of
Life enetac       t birth (Yre) - Average naber of years of lifs remaining at                 malnutrition.
birth; usually liv-yea     averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries                                                                             Education
Cross tnrod.cti.n rate - Average ocher of iivg d-ughtsrn -a wansill bear                    Adjusted sorpLmnt rstic - primary school - Enrollmant of all ages as p-et-
it her norma   reproductI-e period if she emperiesces presen.t age-specific                 cenraee of primacy s.hoo-Igs poulatio,lcue             hlre_gdhl           er
feriit  retes  usal    lv-ea       vrae     n   ing1  1960, 1970 and 1975                but adjusted for different lengths of primary educatton. for countriss with
urdeveloping countries,                                                                   universa  educstion, ..rcilmant mae emcee..d 1007. since sam   pupils are below
PPopu-tIon growth rate C'.) - total - Compounod annualI growth rates of mi-eror above the offitlallschool1aS.,
popolation for 1950-hi, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                              Adlu:.ted enrola     rto- secondary school - Cosputed as shov, secondary
Population growth rate (7.) -urbec - Computed like growth rate of total                       adcto       eurs at least four years of approved primary instruction,
population, different definitional of urban   res may affect camparability of               provides general, voctional or teacher training iuatructions for puplja
data among count ries,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of oge; -orvspondeacs courses are generally excluded.
Urb.n population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different               Yeare of schooling providsd (first and second I-lal) - Total year        of
defialtiona of   rban areas may affet coespr.bility of data among cotanri.a.                schooling; an secondary level * ocational instruction may ha partially or
campletely excluded.
Ann  nrutur  (poten) -Children (0-1'. years), utunking..sge (15-64 years),           Vocational enrollment (% of llecodary)      vocational inurtut.ions include
and -et,ted in5 Years and over) a- percntages of mid-year population,                       technical, industcrial or other pr-or-m which operate Indepenldently ora
Ax. denendenco ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end ovr to tho.s                   depercnets of secondary -otitutione.
of ages 15 Cnrough 64.                                                                    Aduilt lttsracy rane (7.) - Literate adults (abls to read and write)aspr
iconmicdepedenyra  o -Ratio of .poplation under 15 and 65 -od over no                  nentage of total adult PoPulation ated 15 years     nd oe
the labor force in age group of 15-64 vet.-
F=mIly Planning - acceptors (cumuol.tile, th-u) - Cmuou1atill number of    .ccepters         .ousing
of birth-control devices under a..pice- of national     buyil  planning program           Persona per rmon )urb..) - Average vnner of person      Per room in occupied
snince planteicng  ..,(      fm   rd             Pr..tConventional dwellings In, urban area.. dwellings o-cludeno-emet
tOOl0 plnnig -  oers(7.of mrtue  aoen)  Perentges of married -omen of           strctures and unclc.upied parts.
child-hearing age (11-44 years) who usel birth-control dev~ice   to all mortied           Ounupied d.ellings without Pined uster (%) - Occupted co-nvetional dwellings
conan Ill same age group.                                                                    in urban and ruralI ree wIthu       isode or outside p,ped oater facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwelilings.
-to I l.bora t                                                                              A (h-.d  cces to xIxtricitv (7. of ali duelings) - Conentional d.ellingo utth
tota laor frce(thosan) -Econonita11o octive Persona, includIng amnad                  electricity In liviug quartes    as percent of total dwellings in urban and
forces and ucocployed but exclding hocuewl-e, students, etc., definitions                    uaaea
In various countries are out conparshia.                            gural dwellings conne.cted to el-ctricitv (',) - Computed as above for -rurl
Labor f.ort  in agriculture (7.)   A gricaltura1 labor forte (in faroing, foreecry.           duellings only.
hunting, and fishing) as pecntg      If tois1 labor forte.
Unemploved (7. of labor force) - nempl-vd are usuallY defined as Peroon       who           Conauprion
atr aha end willing to take oJob, out of a Job onl a give       day. remaiued out         Radio r-eeivrs (parcthou pop) - All types of rciesfor radio broadc..scn
of a job, sod seeking work for a specified mlinliaul period sot -emeding .n.                 to gaasIPublic par thousand of population, exclude        unicense    rceivers
ansk, my not he    camp.r.ble betweenc.. nonties due to differenlt definitions               in no-tries and In years whet     eitain       frdost        waI      fet
of unemlydad soreocst,eg,                  apiomdent office atetiatics, a_ple                aafrrcn         yasmyntb           comprable sic     mos  ionie      abl     d
suvy,compulsory unemploymen,t insursne.dt fisarng.c.ty..-                                                            o   ecm.Il         i-    0tCutisbl..
PI'ene cars (ne thou nop) - fa.senger cars namprise motor nars s-ating
intonedistribution - Percentage of private incam      (both in cash and kind)                  lesthan eight persona, excludee am,bulances, hearees and military
received by rIchest 5%. richest 207.. Poorest 20%, and p.ooret 40% of houss-                vehicle..
holds.                                                                                    Electricity (kwh/yr par cap) - Annual cu__mption of indust..ial, coadercla.1
public and private electricity in ktles,att hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ow-rerhip - percentages If land owned by wealthiest 10%                   basaddon production data, without    loac      for lossesm In grids but allow
and Poorest 10% of land owners.                                                              log for importe and exports of electricity.
,W-Ith ..d N.tritim                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Nxesprinlt (ka/,r per cap) - Per capita annual conmption Ln kIlogra
P.Pslti- and Nutriion.                                                                         e --si  id  yume  fp.tc.stImated iron domestic production plus met Imports of newPrint.
physicians qualified gram a mediosi school at niversity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 cf 4 pages
EOONOMIC INDICATORS
GOMSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                       ANNUAL RATE OF OPOWIH (%, constant prices)
S$ Min.        j                        1970-75           1965 -?           1972
ONP at Market Prices         3,708.4       100.0                       4.5
Gross Domestic Investment      663.0        17.9                      11.4
Gross National Saving          265.0         7.1                       4.9
Current Account Balance      -417.0        11.2
3xports of Goods, NIS         436.5         11.8
Imports of Goods, MIS         790.0        21.3
CTPJUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRDUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added,/                 Labor Force-l                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      ]                  Mln. -     %                   US $
Agriculture                  1,297.7     41.3                  ..
Industry                       298.5      9.5                  ..
Services                     1,545.9     49.2                  ..
Unallocated
Total/Average           ._.__
3,142.1    100.0                  .                                        100.0
GOVERNMENT FtUCZ
General Government                             Central Government
(     Mln.)          of GrP                    (US$  Mln.)          o of ODP/ 
197          197         1   -7                 1974/5   FY 1975      F9Y17-2
Current Receipts                     ..            -                              720.6        19.1         23.3
Current Expenditure                  ..           ..          .                   728.A        19.3         22.4
Current Surplus                                                                   728-o        d.3          22.4
Capital Expenditures.!                                                             -8.03        7.1          4.3
Xxternal Assistance (net)                                                         285.7         7.6          1.1
IVNE.Y CRZDIT and PRICES                FY1970       FY1971      FY1972      FY1973      FY1974       FY1975
TMRtllioa     outstanding end periodF
Money and Quasi Money                     123.1        130.6      146.2       190.9        246.2       302.2
Bsank credit to Public Sector             90.1         112.2      120.8       152.2        190.7       257.5
Sank Credit to Private Sector             60.5          73.1       70.5        92.8        120.3       155.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          21.1         20.8       18.7        21.9          22.2       20.1
General Price Index (1970 * 100)          106.7        108.2      120.9       141.6         174.0      218.8
Annual percentage changes in$
General Price Index                        ..            1.4       11.7        17.1          22.9       25.7
Bank credit to Public Sector              43.9          24.5        7.7        26.0         25.3        35.0
Bank credit to Private Sector             -1.0          20.8       -3.6        31.6          29.6       29.0
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
2/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector Of their normal ocCUpation.    "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed 1orkers seeking their first Job.
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
not available
not applicable
EACP1B
June 3, 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
bIAER 0    P?ATMrS, HML         ASM3rTAW2  AND I2
lamas lnte i~ u.flm  of 05. r  UdoMs at CUMtt pV.c*S)
Avg. Annual
Actual                         8t197 e8                                     Pro.ectf      _4                   Growth gte.
19,3        197 4                                                                                                   L.7  9617  99 18  98  9 73 -1L9880
SUMIRt! hAlANCE OF PAfMENTS
Erorts (mnd. 99S)                     447.5        394.4       436.5        581.7          615.6       703.9        819.7       936.1       1848.7            9.62
rts (intol. 8(a  3a9.5                        653.4        790.0        867.7          976.9      1113.8       1261.6      1424.5       2587.2           17.2%
evurd  Baflane U-M)                 MTT                    --=           :!Rr*r                    i=           -=TT          4  T       -738.5
Interest oet)                         -12.5       -20.6       -30.2         -57.4        -7: 0.3       -82.0       -94.0       -10 6.9     -195.7           30.82
Other Factor Payments                 -17.9       -21.0        -27.6        -15.0          -20.0       -20.0        -25.0       -25.0        -25.0            4.37.
Direct In~vestent Income               -8.2        -6.0        -12.1        -20.0          -20.0.      -22.0        -22.0       -22.0        -25.0           13.1%
'dorkerS' Ramittance                    -            -            .          30.0           34-1        38.7         43.9        49.9         94.5
Cumt~n,f,          (tut                 6.2          0.4         61 1          2a    12.0                12.0        12.0         15.        - Q2Q           11.77.
9aIane,Con Currer.Accoufte             16.1 -o2 5             -417;0       -336.4           25.5      -            -26.9       -577.5
Plrivate Direct rnwmn                    -           4.9        10.0          30.0          34.3         39.2        44.8         51.2        99.9           34.1%
OflCcial Capital arante                10.0         25.1        10.0         30.0           60.0        84.0         70.0         70.0        88.0           27.5%
Public '96L. loans
Dish rsanest                         68.8        314.2       160.3        332.9          402.5       458.6        505.6       544.4        729.5           29.5%
-R 9pa ants                          -39.8       -37.9        -52.1        364.2         -114.7      -142.4       -139.1      -135.4       -101.2           15.5%
N-e-t- 9iiur s w-ern t a             -sr           275-3       108-2         26.             {         316.2        3.5         409.0        628.3           41.1%
Other M1LT Loans
13n.sbur s emoar.t s
Dt i Dasb u r se m e nt s                            -
Capital Transaxtions n.e.i.            -32.6        -8.9       225.8          50.0          52.S         55.1        57.9         60.8        77.6
Change in Net Resverss  (--ncrese)      22.5        39.7        63.0         -42.3           9.1        -11.0       -12.3        -13.6        -24.2
-                                                            -             -            Actual                 Estim,ated
GR8ANT1 AnD WAl  CfK'T  Ns                                                                   0EST AND DEBT SERVICE            1973     1971      1975         1976
Ofl:i-al irants      . Grant-like       34.0        35.0          -           30.0         Public Debt Cut. & D)iabursed   377.0    723.0     941.7        1259.5
P,bl,c WrLC osans                                                                           tIntrest oe Publc Debct         14.8     20.6      40.8          55.4
7.&D  ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   -      -                 -           20.0          Repaymsents on Public Debt     39.8      37.9     52.1           64.1
:DA                                  46.3         35.0        60.0          13.0          Total Public Debt Service      54.6      79.1     92.9          119.5
~~tner  ~   ~        ~        --                       -                         other Debt Service (net)         -        -         - 
Gther M,ltilateral                      -         S1.0         26.0         80.0           Total Debt Service (ret)       54.6     79.1      92.9         119.5
Z.overr.oenrts                       68 0        170.0        150.0         91.0
Suppliers                             50.0        54.0         63.0                      gurden on Export Earnings (7.)
Pinlr.cal institutions               49.0       352.0         61.0
Sonds                                                                                      Public Debt Service            12.2     22.0      21.3          20.5
Plic Loans n.e.'.                                                                          Total Debt Service               -        -         -
eta._ Pub.1 tc .9&L7 .cans                                      39L.0 *Y. 2          0   .   rDSiFDirect Invest. In..       14.0      25.7     24.1          24.0
Actual Debt Outstanding on   a. 31. 1975                    Average Terma of Public Debt
X2T92'.IAL  .88'M                 Lbursed Ornjt                Nrcent
IkD                                  74.1                     7.9                            int. as % Prior Year DOD      4.5       5.4       5.6           5,9
MDA                                  33.8                     3.6                       .    Anort. -a 2 Prior Year 004D   12.1      10.1       7.2           6.8
Other Multgtiateral                  51.3                      5.5
.3overnennts                        394.2                     41.9                         I88D Debt Cut. & Disbursed
S3ppliers                            $1.0                      8.6                            sas % Public Debt 0SD         19.6     11.2       7.8            5.6
Financ4ai   .natit'tions            307.3                     32.7                           " as % Public Debt Service     20.7      19.8     12.6            9.4
vublic Debts n.e.i                                                                         IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Total Public .M&LT Debt             941 7                                                      as 2 Public Debt OD          7.8       2.5      3.4            5.0
a es 2 Public Debt OD          0.5      0.5       0.3           0.3
Other '962.? Debts
Short-term Debt (d .sb. only)
.rnot applicable                                    a  ataft eatimte
not available                                      - nil or nagligible
not available separately                              less than half t19
but included in total                                 emallest unit shown                                                                      Juc3.B



ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of April 30, 1976)
Amount (US$ Million)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:               127.2    14.9
Credit 122    1968   Sudan    Education I                         8.5       2.2
Credit 311    1972   Sudan    Mechanized Farming II              11.3       6.6
Credit 331    1972   Sudan    Highways I                          7.0       1.1
Credit 364    1973   Sudan    Rahad Irrigation                  42.0       16.5
Credit 364-2 1975    Sudan    Rahad (Supplement)                20.0       20.0
Credit 447    1973   Sudan    Industrial Bank of Sudan I          4.0       0.4
Credit 457    1974   Sudan    Railways III                      24.0       10.9
Credit 476    1974   Sudan    Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project                         10.7 /a     7.8
Credit 547    1975   Sudan    Education II                       10.0       9.6
Credit 564    1975   Sudan    Power II                          23.0       18.7
Credit 589    1975   Sudan    Industrial Bank of Sudan II         7.0       7.0
Credit 614    1976   Sudan    Technical Assistance               4.0        4.0
Credit 643    1976   Sudan )                                     9.0        9.0
Loan 1287T    1976   Sudan ) Domestic Aviation           20.0              20.0
Credit    /c 1977    Sudan    Savannah Development              17.0       17.0
147.2  212.4      150.8
Total -
Of which has been repaid                          61.6    2.7
Total now outstanding                               85.6  209.7
Amount sold -                          5.8
Of which has been repaid            5.8            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                   86.2  209.7
Total Undisbursed                                   20.0  115.4      150.8
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1976)
Type of     (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                 Business    Loan  Equity     Total
1964 and   Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.   Textiles     1.87   0.34       2.21
1972
1976       Cotton Textile Mills                           8.71   1.27      9.98
Total gross commitments                     10.58   1.61     12.19
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       1.69   0.07      1.76
Total commitments now held by IFC            8.89   1.54     10.43
Total undisbursed                           2.21    0.35      2.56
/a   Includes grant participation of $5.35 million, of which $4.3 million is
undisbursed.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.
Ic   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made seven loans and fourteen credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to commence
for the following projects.
Credit No. 122      First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply short-
ages continue to interrupt construction. Recently changes were made in
project management. Cost overruns have been met by reducing the scope of the
project. We are continuing to monitor the project closely with a view to
ensuring that the project is completed by the new closing date.
Credit No. 547       Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
May 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will help meet priority education needs, principally
in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a
new type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Center for schooling in the
rural context. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site
selection and the education sector survey supported under the project has been
completed. Tendering is now under way. Implementation of the construction
program will be difficult and we are concerned that insufficient priority is
being assigned to ensure that these difficulties can be overcome.
Credit No. 311       Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan = 1.038 acres) was completed
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended by
75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road
construction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on
road improvements and construction of a training center are still behind
schedule. Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized farming
have been completed. Disbursements are proceeding steadily.
Credit No. 364      Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of March 30,
and 364a            1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:   August 29, 1973
and November 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of agri-
cultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of about
14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary infrastruc-
ture and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated in the
initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million each.
Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes, occurred and an in-
crease in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved by the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1975. The remaining increase of $81.5 in
the foreign exchange cost will be financed by the Kuwait Fund ($39 million),
the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab Fund ($14.5 mil-
lion). The Government will meet the increased local cost of the project,
totalling $80 million. Although work gpt off to a slow start in 1974, there
was good progress in earth-moving, design work and procurement of equipment
in 1975. The new management structure for the project is a distinct improve-
ment. Progress on the structures since October 1975 has been satisfactory
and planning for the settlement and agricultural programs is well advanced.
Diversion of the first water should occur in July 1977, slightly behind sche-
dule and the pumps should be ready to maintain water supplies after the 1977
rainy season.
Credit No. 476      Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31. 1979
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to farm-
ers, (ii) expanding extension services, (iii) establishing a center for nu-
trition research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production
through a program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also



ANNEX II
Page 4
aims at rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and establish-
ing the nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit and tech-
nical assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included. Provi-
sion of staff housing and recruitment of staff took sometime, but has now
been completed and good progress is now being made. Seed trials and seed
multiplication and cotton planting are under way. Coffee planting is ahead
of schedule. The associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed largely by
Germany, is under way, but the dairy component has encountered problems. A
project review mission took place in March to assess whether any modifications
to the project would be desirable now that the Region is moving beyond the
rehabilitation stage. Disbursements are expected to be completed on schedule.
The Government of Norway has taken a participation in this credit amounting to
US$5.35 million.
Credit No. 331      Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31. 1978
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials.
Also included were feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport in transport planning and training of RBPC staff. The project
is approaching completion, except for the technical assistance component.
To provide time for execution of this component, the closing date has been
extended. Detailed engineering is underway on 480 km of roads shown to be
feasible in the feasibility studies. Due to cost escalation on some project
items these engineering studies which are expected to lead to a second highway
project will be financed by other means.
Credit No. 457       Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and maintain the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complementary trans-
port modes and includes components to assist river transport, port develop-
ment and civil aviation. Contracts for supply of much of the equipment under
the credit have been awarded and disbursements are now expected to be rapid.
Useful discussions have been held with Sudan Railways about means to upgrade
the standard of operations, which is an important element of this project,
and a fourth Railway project which would finance additional equipment needed
for this purpose is the subject of this report.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1287T      Domestic Aviation Project; US$20 Million Loan of July 9,
and           1976 and US$9 Million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Credit No. 643      Date:   January 11, 1977; Closing Date:   September 30, 1981
The project consists of final design and construction of two new
airports and upgrading of two existing airports, complete with terminal
and other facilities; navigational and communication equipment; and certain
technical services. Design work is at an advanced stage and tendering is in
progress.
Credit No. 447      First Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:   US$4 Million
Credit of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan to
function more effectively in financing industrial development in the private
and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet IBS' re-
quirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975, but
business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved subproj-
ects exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. Disbursements are expected to
be completed in 1977. A second credit to IBS was approved by the Board in
November 1975.
Credit No. 589       Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 14,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project will continue IDA's support for this development finance
company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized indus-
tries. Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait Fund and
the Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the foreign exchange
needs of the Industrial Bank up to late 1978.
Credit No. 546      Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project consists of the fourth unit at the Roseires hydro-elec-
tric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, transmission and distribu-
tion lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and services.
Implementation of the generation and transmission features of the project is
proceeding generally on schedule although adequate bids for the civil works
at Roseires have not been forthcoming. Contracts have been awarded for most of
the main components and these indicate that there is likely to be a 25% cost
overrun. The Government is seeking additional foreign exchange to meet these
costs. A new management structure is showing some promise, and good progress
has been made in improving the financial operations. The various studies
financed under the project are either in progress or nearing completion.



ANNEX JI
Page 6
Credit No. 614       Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 4, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project, financed by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, will finance
preparation studies of high priority projects, to facilitate Sudan's public
investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established and in its
first two meetings, the Project Review Committee authorized five studies
for financing under the project. Progress achieved has been good.
Credit No.           Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 Million Credit
approved on May 31, 1977; not yet signed; not yet ef-
fective, Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project, financed by IDA and the Saudi Fund, will finance a
comprehensive agricultural development program in South Darfur Province,
including crop and livestock development, improved water maintenance, pro-
ject related agricultural research and creation of a Western Savannah
Development Corporation. Project implementation is just about to begin.



