CONiORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 727 SU
LOAN NUMBER 1467 T-SU
Project Agreement
(Fourth Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
Dated July 8, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association), INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION (hereinafter called SRC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that SRC agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that SRC
agree to undertake such obligations towards the Bank as herein-
after set forth;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SRC, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the
Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to SRC; and
WHEREAS in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, SRC has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
applicable thereto and in the Loan Agreement and in the General
Conditions applicable thereto have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SRC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
managerial, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SRC in carrying out Part D
of the Project, SRC shall employ management and technical experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil
works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SRC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by SRC to replace or repair such
goods.


﻿- 5 -
(b) Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, SRC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SRC shall furnish to the Association and
the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the -oject, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) SRC shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Association's and the Bank's representatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association and
the Bank all such information as the Association or the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) SRC shall enable the Association's and the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of SRC and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.06. SRC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
and the Bank shall otherwise agree, SRC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SRC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion or the Bank, exchange views with the Association or the Bank
with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit and of the Loan.
(b) SRC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit and of the Loan, or the performance by SRC of its obliga-
tions under this Agreekent and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 2.08. SRC shall:
(a) (i) monitor continuously the progress of the Project and
the attainment of the objectives thereunder on the basis of a list
of operational norms and targets satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank, and (ii) based on the above, prepare and submit to
the Association and the Bank for their comments annual progress
reports, adequate in scope and form; and
(b) promptly implement all such remedial measures considered
necessary or useful for ensuring the attainment of the objectives
of the Project as the Association or the Bank shall reasonably
request on the basis of the aforementioned criteria.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SRC
Section 3.01. SRC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry out its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, managerial, financial, engineering and technical
practices and to that end shall employ at all times and in ade-
quate numbers qualified and experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. SRC shall: (a) at all times operate, maintain,
renew and repair its facilities, plants, equipment and machinery
in accordance with appropriate engineering, technical and manage-
ment practices; and (b) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its properties or assets required for the
efficient carrying out of its business and undertakings, including
the carrying out of the Project, except in the normal course of
its business or with the prior agreement of the Association and
the Bank.
Section 3.03. SRC shall at all times take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part to acquire, maintain, and renew all
such rights, powers and privileges as shall be necessary or useful
for its operations.
Section 3.04. SRC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SRC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SRC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association or
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association and the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of SRC and the audit thereof as
the Association or the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. (a) Until the Project shall have been com-
pleted, and except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, SRC shall take all measures required (including but not
limited to the introduction, maintenance and periodic adjustments
of the tariffs charged for its services) to provide SRC with
revenues sufficient to cover its operating expenses and debt
service requirements; provided, however, that whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that, due to unforeseen decrease in
freight and passenger traffic beyond SRC's control, the funds
available to SRC will be inadequate to cover its above expenses
and requirements, SRC shall be deemed to have met its obligations
pursuant to this Section to the extent it has received from the
Borrower funds sufficient to cover such shortfall pursuant to
Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "operating expenses" shall mean all
direct costs of operation by SRC of its facilities
and equipment, including adequate maintenance
expenses and adequate provision for taxes, if any,
depreciation and pension funds;
(ii) the term "debt" shall mean all debt of SRC maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred;


﻿- 11 -
(iii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement
or other instrument providing for such debt;
(iv)  the term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any), interest and
other charg2s on debt; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing official rate of exchange at
which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by SRC for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, in the absence of such
rate of exchange, at a rate acceptable to the
Association and the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank
may otherwise agree, SRC shall not incur any debt, other than
for money borrowed for financing the Project, unless its net
revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or
for a later period of twelve consecutive months ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall be not


﻿- 12 -
less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" shall have the same meaning assigned
to it in Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred as set forth
in Section 4.03 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
(iii) the term "net revenues" shall mean the gross
revenues, adjusted to take account of SRC's tariffs
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt
even though they were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all working and administrative
expenses and provision of taxes, if any, but before
provision covering depreciation, interest and other
charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirement" shall have the
same meaning assigned to it in Section 4.03 (b)
(iv) of this Agreement; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,


﻿- 13 -
such valuation shall be made in accordance with
Section 4.03 (b) (v) of this Agreement.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association and the Bank may
otherwise agree, SRC shall take all measures (including but not
limited to the introduction, maintenance and periodic adjustments
of the tariffs charged for its services) required to realize an
annual rate of return of not less than 6% in its fiscal year 1981
and thereafter on the average net value of SRC's fixed assets in
operation.
(b) For the purposes of the Section:
(i) the required annual return shall be calculated by
using as the denominator in respect of each fiscal
year one-half of the sum of the net value of SRC's
fixed assets in service at the beginning and at the
end of each such year and as the numerator SRC's,
operating income from its operations for that same
year;
(ii) the term "net value of SRC's fixed assets in
operation" shall mean the gross value of such
assets, as revalued from time to time, less
accumulated depreciation, all determined in
accordance with appropriate methods of valuation,
revaluation and depreciation acceptable to the
Association and the Bank; and


﻿- 14 -
(iii) the term "operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross revenues from SRC's operations plus
other recurring fees and charges associated
with such operations, and
(B) working and administrative expenses, including
adequate provision for maintenance, repairs,
depreciation on all fixed assets in service
and taxes, if any, but before interest and
other charges on debt.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and SRC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with their respective terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If either the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
or the Bank shall promptly notify SRC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SRC:
Sudan Railways Corporation
P.O. Box 43
Atbara
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:
HADID
Atbara
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SRC may be taken or executed by the General
Manager or such other person or persons as the General Manager
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SRC shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf
of SRC, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by SRC pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
Section 6.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to SRC and so long as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan
Agreement: (a) the obligations of SRC to consult with, and to
furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and state-
ments to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association; (b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish
information to SRC shall be satisfied to the extent such obliga-
tions are fulfilled by the Association; and (c) all actions taken
(including the giving of approvals or the granting of waivers) by
the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall
be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement and in the name and on behalf of
both the Association and the Bank.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
By /s/ Omer Salih Eisa
Authorized Representative


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A above,
contracts for:
(a) miscellaneous items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less each and with an aggregate value not exceeding
$500,000,
(b) radio communications equipment which the Association
agrees must be compatible with existing equipment, and
(c) spare parts and components for diesel locomotives,
may be procured under negotiated contracts acceptable to the
Association.


﻿- 21 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
and the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the purchase of goods to
be procured in accordance with Part A of this Schedule and
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SRC shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank, for their comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Associa-
tion or the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Association's and
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SRC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion and the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association and the
Bank, in sufficient time for their review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably


﻿- 22 -
request. The Association or the Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform SRC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's and the Bank.'s concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association or the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
or the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of t.he pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan and not governed by dhe preceding
paragraph, SRC shall furnish to the Association and the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association and the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account, in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association or the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Association or the Bank shall,


﻿- 23 -
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SRC and
state the reasons for such determination.


