CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 727 SU
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Railway Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 8, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1977, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of Parts A (5), B (1), C (3) through
(6) and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance toward the financing of Parts A (5), B (1),
C (3) through (6) and D of the Project and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000) (hereinafter called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expeditures on Parts A (5), B
(1), C (3) through (6) and D of the Project before disbursements
of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are
made;


﻿-2-
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (hereinafter called the Arab Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount in
Kuwaiti Dinars equivalent to seventeen million four hundred
thousand dollars ($17,400,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Arab Fund;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount in
Kuwaiti Dinars equivalent to seventeen million four hundred
thousand dollars ($17,400,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
(F) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Development Fund (hereinafter called the European Fund) a grant
(hereinafter called the European Fund Grant) in an amount in
European Units of Account equivalent to six million six hundred
thousand dollars ($6,600,000) to assist in financing the Project
on the conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the European Fund Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the European Fund;


﻿-3-
(G) the Borrower intends to contract from the Abu Dhabi
Fund for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Abu
Dhabi Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan)
in an amount in Dirhams equivalent to ten million dollars
($10,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Abu
Dhabi Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and the Abu Dhabi Fund.
(H) the Project will be carried out by the Sudan Railways
Corporation (hereinafter called SRC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to SRC the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan as
hereinafter provided and the proceeds of the Arab Fund Loan, the
Kuwait Fund Lodn, the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan and the European Fund
Grant;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the Bank
and SRC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and SRC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such te rm includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SRC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;


﻿-5-
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as
made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to
the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(d) "Sudan Railways Corporation" and "SRC" mean the Sudan
Railways Corporation established by the Sudan Railways Corporation
Act, 1973, of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this
Agreement and as the same may be amended from time to time;
and
(e) "Sudanese Pounds" or "LSd" means the currency of the
Borrower.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amecnded from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts A (5), B (1), C (3) through (6)
and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-7-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1987, and ending March
15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of SRC or any other person
or persons designated in writing by the General Manager of SRC are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SRC to perform in accordance
with the prre 1sions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable SRC to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such perrmance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan to SRC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SRC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association including, inter alia,
an interest rate of eight per cent (8%) per annum and a repayment
period of twenty years, including a grace period of four years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall


﻿-9-
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall issue or cause to be issued
promptly as needed all permits and import licences, and cause its
Central Bank to provide, on a monthly basis, the foreign exchange
required by SRC to procure and import the spare parts and other
materials needed for ensuring the proper operation and maintenance
of its facilities and equipment.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to provide or cause
SRC to be provided, as and when needed, with funds sufficient to
enable SRC to meet its operating expenses and debt service
requirements as set forth in Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SRC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of SRC under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SRC will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c) The Sudan Railways Corporation Act, 1973, of the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability of
SRC to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set
forth in the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
SRC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) SRC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by SRC
or by others whereby any of the assets of SRC shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.


﻿- 11 -
(f) Any material adverse change in the condition of SRC
as represented by SRC, shall have occurred prior to the Effective
Date.
(g) Any representation made by SRC pursuant to the Project
Agreement or any statement furnished in connection with the Credit,
and intended to be relied upon by the Association in making the
Credit, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
(h) The Arab Fund Loan Agreement, the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement or the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan Agreement shall have failed
to become effective by June 30, 1978, or such other date as the
Borrower and the Association may otherwise agree; provided,
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that adequate funds for Parts A (1) through (4), B (3) and C (1)
and (2) of the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement and of SRC under the Project
Agreement.
(i) (A) Subject to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph:
(1) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Arab Fund Loan, the Kuwait
Fund Loan, the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan or the
European Fund Grant made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been


﻿- 12 -
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Arab
Fund Loan Agreement, the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement, the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan Agreement
or the European Fund Grant Agreement, or
(2) The Arab Fund Loan, the Kuwait Fund Loan or
the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(B) Subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (1) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(2) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of SRC under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 13 -
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and SRC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) (e) and (i)
(A) (2) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-14 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of SRC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and SRC, respectively, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action;
(c) the Arah Fund Loan Agreement, the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement and the Abu Dhabi Fund Loan Agreement have been duly
signed on behalf of the parties thereto;
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
European Fund Grant Agreement or the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals thereunder, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(e) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, except for the effectiveness
of this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SRC, and is legally binding upon SRC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SRC, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SRC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 7, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02, 3.03 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of National Planning or the
Under-Secretary for National Planning of the Ministry of National
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O.Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                Telex:
EIMAR                         324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Omer Salih Eisa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and               14,000,000          100% of foreign
Materials                                      expenditures
(2) Technical                    1,000,000
Services:
(a)  interna-                                 100% of foreign
tionally                                  expenditures
procured
(b) locally                                   100%
procured
(exclud-
ing staff's
local sub-
sistence
expendi-
tures)
(3) Unallocated                  5,000,000
TOTAL       20,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for.expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement. In addition, except as
the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn or
committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account
except under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to


﻿- 20 -
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01
of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have, or
after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit, the Bank
has, reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 21 -
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any item in any Category is
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan
as, in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist SRC in carrying out its
investment program for 1977-78 to 1979-80 in accordance with the
Borrower's National Economic Development Plan for 1977-78 to
1982-83 to improve SRC's operational efficiency and productivity.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Civil Works
(1) Construction of classrooms and practical training
facilities at the Atbara Central Railway Training
School.
(2) Improvement to existing bridges, culvert openings
and flood protection works, and construction of
additional crossing stations.
(3) Construction of a diesel locomotive maintenance workshop
at Sennar.
(4) Construction of a wagon workshop at Port Sudan.
(5) Provision of materials for the civil works to be
carried out under Part A (1) through (4) of the
Project.
Part B:   Track Works and Materials
(1) Renewal of sleepers on about 500 km of track on the
section from Haiya to El Obeid.


﻿- 23 -
(2) Relaying of about 194 km of track with used 37.5 kg/m
rail extending from Abu Zabad to Babanusa.
(3) Relaying of about 150 km of track with 45 kg/m rail
on the section from Khartoum to Sennar.
Part C:   Rolling Stock and Equipment
(1) Provision of about 10 diesel locomotives.
(2) Provision of about 400 freight wagons.
(3) Provision of couplers and roller bearings for
rehabilitation of existing freight wagons and
passenger coaches.
(4) Provision of track maintenance machinery and
tools and signals and communications equipment.
(5) Provision of teaching equipment for the Atbara
Central Railway Training School.
(6) Provision of workshop equipment and of locomotive spare
parts.
Part D:   Technical Services
(1) Design and implementation of a new form of work
organization based on autonomous work groups and
a system of incentives for SRC's diesel locomotive
workshop to be constructed under Part A (3) of the
Project.


﻿-24-
(2) Development of curricula and teaching methods for
the Atbara Central Railway Training School.
(3) Improvement of SRC's workshop design, locomotive
testing systems, communications and communications
maintenance.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


