FILE                                        Document of
COPY |'The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1894-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR
THE MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 14, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit               Won
Won 485          =          US$1.00
Won 1,000        =          US$2.06
Won 1,000,000               US$2,061.86
Fiscal Year      =          January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC    -   Agricultural Development Corporation
FLIA   -   Farm Land Improvement Association
MAF    -   Ministry of  Agriculture and Fisheries
NACF   -   National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
ORD    -   Office of Rural Development
OWD    -   Office of Watershed Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
FOR THE MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), with the guarantee
of the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $29.0 million to help finance
the Miho Watershed Area Development project in the Central Region of Korea.
The loan would have a term of 22 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 8.9 percent per annum.
1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Current Economic Position and Pro-
spects of the Republic of Korea") was distributed under cover of SecM75-437
dated June 9, 1975. A Basic Economic Mission is currently in the field. The
Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Korea's economic performance over the last decade was outstanding.
It entered the sixties with one of the lowest income levels in the world;
it had little experience of participation in international trade; and it
lacked natural resources. Despite these unpromising beginnings, Korea em-
barked on a course of export-oriented industrial growth that has led to
its recognition as one of the most successful examples of development. Its
rich endowment of human resources, including skilled labor and entrepreneurial
talent, a social environment which is conducive to rapid economic change,
and a national dedication to economic growth, all contributed to Korea's
impressive record.
4.        Around 1960, the Korean economy was still heavily dependent on
agriculture and tended to grow at 3-4 percent per year. Since then, how-
ever, the economy has been transformed and the growth of real GNP accelerated
to around 10 percent per year. Exports of manufactures increased from $65
million in 1964 to over $4 billion in 1974. The manufacturing sector grew
from 12 to 31 percent of GNP during this period while the share of agricul-
ture in GNP declined from over 40 percent to 22 percent, despite an annual
growth rate of 3 to 4 percent in value added in agriculture. The rate of
population increase declined from 2.6 percent per year between the censuses
of 1960 and 1966 to an estimated 1.7 percent in 1973/74. Consequently,
real per capita income more than doubled in the last decade and is estimated
at S472 in 1974.
I/ Paragraphs 3-24 are identical to those contained in the corresponding
section of the President's Report (No. P-1767) on the Rural Infrastructure
Project (1216-KO and 1218T-KO) which was approved on March 9, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.         The growth of incomes has been sustained by a significant in-
crease in the proportion of resources allocated to investment. Expenditures
on fixed capital formation were below 11 percent of GNP in the years up to
1962, but have been around 24 percent of GNP in recent years. National
savings rose from very low levels of around 6 percent of GNP in the early
1960's to around 15 percent of GNP in 1970-72, both government and private
savings having increased very substantially. This indicates that large
capital inflows (which averaged about 9 percent of GNP during 1970-71,
roughly the same level as in the early 1960's), did not weaken efforts
to mobilize resources domestically. However, Korea entered upon a period
of rapid growth with a very low level of domestic savings and, therefore,
the Government pursued a policy of relatively heavy dependence on external
capital in the interest of a rapid acceleration of investment and growth.
Moreover, since exports during 1964-74 were rising at an average rate of
nearly 47 percent (in current prices), the burden of additional external debt
was not excessive and the debt service ratio stood at around 13 percent in
1974.
6.         Korea's performance in attempting to achieve a balanced distribu-
tion of the benefits of growth is also creditable. Available data for 1964
and 1970 indicate that the distribution of income in Korea is among the most
equitable in the developing world and that the overall size distribution of
income changed little during this period. However, as a consequence of the
rapid growth in manufacturing and a shift of terms of trade against farmers,
income of urban wage-earning households tended to increase faster than that of
rural households and was twice as high in 1968. Since 1968 the Government has
succeeded in raising the relative price of farm outputs, increasing labor
productivity in agriculture through subsidized supply of inputs, and improving
the opportunities for off-farm employment principally as part of the Saemaeul
(New Community) movement begun in 1971. These measures have almost eliminated
the differential between average household incomes in urban and rural sectors.
Recent Developments and the Adjustment Process
7.         In the 1970's, the Korean economic situation has been subject to
sudden and sharp changes (see Economic Reports distributed under cover of
R74-42 dated March 4, 1974 and SecM75-437 dated June 9, 1975). Following a
period of rapid growth the Government undertook a stabilization program during
1970-72 as a result of which real investment did not increase and the growth
of real GNP slowed to 8 percent per year. In 1973, international demand grew
rapidly and Korea took full advantage of its opportunities. As a result,
there was an unprecedented boom: real GNP grew by 16.5 percent and export
volume by 57 percent; national savings rose to 22 percent of GNP, and foreign
savings financed only about 15 percent of total investment.
8.         The transition from the boom of 1973 to today's difficulties re-
flects the impact of the twin shocks of the rise in food, oil and other import
prices and the recession in the industrial countries. The Korean economy
was particularly vulnerable to both of these because of its heavy dependence
on imported energy, raw materials and foodstuffs, and on exports to the de-
veloped countries.



- 3 -
9.         From the last quarter of 1973 to the middle of 1974, the prices of
imports rose very rapidly. The immediate impact of the oil price increase
alone was to raise the import bill by more than twice the entire current
account deficit in 1973. The payments required to maintain the 1973 volume
of oil imports rose from $277 million to over $1 billion; the increase was
equivalent to 19 percent of total imports and over 6 percent of GNP at their
1973 levels. The higher prices of foodgrains added another $300 million to
the import bill. Furthermore, the average unit value of imports other than
petroleum and foodgrains rose by 45 percent during 1974, while the unit value
of Korea's exports rose by only 27 percent in that year. The impact of the
adverse shifts in the international terms of trade was aggravated during 1974
by the sudden recession in industrialized countries which affected the demand
for Korea's exports. The United States and Japan, which took 70 percent of
Korea's exports in 1973, suffered a decline of about 2 percent in real GNP
in 1974. As a result, Korea's export volume, which had grown by 57 percent in
1973 (and by over 29 percent in each of the preceding 5 years), grew by only
9 percent in 1974. The volume of exports to Japan actually declined by about
6 percent.
10.       The slackening of export demand and the adverse price movements
had a variety of effects on the economy. First, as a direct consequence
of the 18 percent deterioration in the international terms of trade, Korea
suffered a real income loss of the order of 4 percent of GNP in 1974. 1/ Ad-
justing for this terms of trade effect, real gross national income rose by
only 4.2 percent in 1974, following increases of 6.7 percent and 15.2 percent
in the previous two years. Second, the rise in import prices accelerated
domestic inflation. The rate of increase of wholesale prices rose to 42
percent in 1974 from an average of 7 percent in the previous four years.
Two-thirds of the increase in prices was the result of increases in the
landed cost of imported commodities. In an effort to prevent the emergence
of untoward distortions, the Government allowed import price increases to
be fully reflected in domestic prices (with the exception of basic foodstuffs
and fertilizers). Domestic prices of petroleum products rose nearly 300
percent from August 1973 to December 1974. These were also reflected in the
prices paid by consumers for electric power and transportation. In general
the burden of adjustment to higher import prices was borne directly by con-
sumers. Consequently, wholesale prices rose by 42 percent in 1974 and at an
annual rate of nearly 30 percent in the first half of 1975. In the second half
of the year, however, the index increased by only about 5 percent as domestic
prices completed the process of adjustment to international inflation, and
the program of monetary restraint instituted by the Government began to take
effect. Third, the current account deficit on the balance of payments grew
frbm $309 million in 1973 to $2.04 billion in 1974 and net foreign exchange
reserves dropped from $1.1 billion to $0.3 billion during 1974. About half
of this external deficit was due to the terms of trade loss, the balance
being primarily due to the recession in the economies of Korea's trading
partners. Finally, part of the adjustment was made by a sharp slackening
in the pace of domestic economic activity. The annual rate of growth of
GNP slowed from 16.5 percent in 1973 to 13.8 percent in the first half of 1974
1/    At 1970 prices and exchange rates.



- 4 -
an6 4.3 percent in the second half.    Import volume grew by only 4 percent
ir- 1974, compared with an average increase of 16 percent per year in the
previous 5 years. Industrial production (seasonally corrected) fluctuated
sharply from month to month but showed very little gain after the first
quarter of 1974. Employment rose by only 3.4 percent and was able to
absorb onlv three quarters of the increase in the labor force in the year.
II.       The slowdown in domestic production would have been greater but
for various government measures to sustain employment. In December 1974
the currency was devalued by 17.5 percent to W 485 per US$. Special
credits were extended through the banking system to enable industry to
finance accumulation of inventories, and the Government purchased excess
inventories of finished goods from industries particularly hard hit by
the fall in export demand. Subsidized credit was extended to small firms
and exporters to ease their financial situation. The purpose of these
ameliorative policies (which characterized the second half of 1974 and
the first quarter of 1975) was two-fold. One was to sustain employment
levels, thereby easing the adjustment of the economy to the permanent
and sizeable loss of real incomes resulting from the terms of trade
movement. The second objective was to prevent too precipitate a decline
in investment and production levels of export industries in response to
a temporary recession in export markets. In support of Korea's long-term
goals, it was held desirable to maintain a minimal economic momentum and
to remain poised to take rapid advantage of the anticipated recovery in
export demand. This policy was, of course, predicated on the belief that
the world recession would be relatively shallow and shortlived, a belief
that was shared at the time by many economists and policy makers through-
out the world.
12.       Contrary to expectations, the recession in industrialized countries
continued well into 1975, with the GNP of OECD countries having fallen by an
estimated 2 percent in 1975. Despite the unfavorable demand conditions,
Korea's export volume is estimated to have expanded by about 21 percent in
1975. However, as a result of reduced demand and increased international
competition, particularly for iron and steel and clothing exports, Korea's
export prices declined by about 7 percent and its terms of trade deteriorated
by about 11 percent in 1975. This, together with rising payments on freight
and interest obligations, has been principally responsible for a continued
large deficit in the balance of payments (estimated at $1.9 billion in 1975
compared with $2.04 billion in 1974).
13.       Korea has suffered heavy balance of payments losses in 1974 and
1975 due to an exceptional combination of adverse events. The average loss
in the two years on account of terms of trade movements alone is estimated at
about 7 percent of GNP (at 1970 prices and exchange rates). Any attempt to
adjust to such a large foreign exchange loss without incurring sizeable
balance of payments deficits would undoubtedly lead to large-scale unemploy-
ment and a loss of growth momentum, which would have severe adverse conse-
quences for Korea's long-term economic development.     The essence of Korean
policy, therefore, has been to smooth the process of adjustment, while at the
same time attempting to ensure that there is a steady movement toward long-
term improvement in the balance of payments. Toward this end, the Knrean



- 5 -
Government has intensified measures by which it had already begun, earlier
in the decade, to.tackle longer term structural problems in its balance of
payments and the need to increase the availability of resources for invest-
ment.
14.       The severity of Korea's balance of payments problems in 1974 drew
attention to the sensitivity of a trade-oriented economy to the economic
fluctuations of its trading partners. Because Korea is poorly endowed with
natural resources and its principal comparative advantage is a skilled and
energetic labor force, a relatively high degree of trade orientation is
unavoidable; however, the Government has made and is making strenuous efforts
to reduce Korea's vulnerability to international fluctuations by diversify-
ing the commodity composition of and markets for exports as well as reducing
import dependence.
15.       In recent years Korea has made considerable progress in diversify-
ing exports. In 1971 and 1972, 75 percent of Korea's exports went to the
United States and Japan. This proportion dropped to 57 percent in the first
nine months of 1975. In the same period, the share of exports to Europe
nearly doubled from 9 percent to 16 percent, and the share of other countries
(excluding the United States, Europe and Japan) has increased from 16 percent
to 27 percent. Commodity exports to oil exporting countries have increased
very rapidly from a small base, and amounted to $120 million in the first
nine months of 1975. Similarly, the commodity concentration of exports has
declined significantly; four major categories of exports (textiles, clothing,
plywood and miscellaneous manufactures) accounted for 60 percent of exports
in 1970 but only 48 percent in the first nine months of 1975. During this
period there was a particularly rapid growth of exports of iron and steel,
electronics, electrical machinery and appliances and ships. During the last
year, Korea has also been highly successful in winning construction contracts
in the Middle East. The development of new exports and the upgrading of the
qualitv and design of traditional exports are the major means by which Korea
hopes to diversify its exports and to further reduce its dependence on markets
In Japan and the United States.
16.       These developments suggest that Korea will be able to sustain a
rate of growth of exports that is relatively rapid compared to other countries,
although not as high as it was prior to 1974. Global projections indicate
that the volume of manufactured exports by developing countries is likely
to grow about 12-15 percent per year for the rest of this decade. Consider-
ing that 90 percent of Korea's exports now consist of manufactured goods,
that its links with the Japanese and U.S. economies remain strong, that
successful efforts are being made to penetrate new markets (especially in
Europe and the Middle East) and that some progress has already been made in
diversifying the industrial structure, the long-term prospects for Korea's
exports are markedly better than for developing countries as a whole. Pro-
vided measures continue to be taken to maintain price competitiveness, which
has been somewhat eroded by the relatively high rates of inflation in Korea
in the past two years, Korean exports may be expected to grow at 20-25 percent
per year in terms of current prices (allowing for international price infla-
tion of 5-6 percent per year).



- 6 -
17.       The potential for strengthening the balance of payments on the
import side is not great. Of total imports in 1974, 29 percent consisted of
raw materials for exports and a further 27 percent was capital goods, cat-
egories in which substantial import savings are unlikely to be compatible with
maintaining international competitiveness of export industries. More than
half of the remaining 44 percent of imports consisted of petroleum and food-
grains. The scope for restraining petroleum imports (16 percent of the total)
is very limited; because domestic energy sources are limited to low quality
coal, firewood and limited hydroelectric power, petroleum supplies about half
of Korea's energy needs and is utilized almost entirely for essential indus-
trial and transportation purposes. The number of private automobiles is
relatively small and home heating needs are met by coal and wood. Despite
these constraints, the rate of growth of petroleum consumption has been
severely curtailed - from 1.8 times GNP growth in 1968-73 to about the same
rate as GNP growth in the following two years.
18.       In order to reduce dependence on imported foodgrains, there
has been an energetic effort to increase agricultural productivity. In
1972-73 imports of grain accounted for about 30 percent of grain consumption
and about 11 percent of total imports. Since then, the rate of growth of
value added in agriculture has nearly doubled (from about 3.5 percent to about
6 percent per year). In part this was the result of good weather conditions,
but it was also in response to improved inputs and the assurance of high
grain prices. The proportion of land under high yielding varieties of rice
has increased from 16 percent in 1972 to 37 percent in 1975. Despite the
very severe topographical limitations (nearly 3/4 of the land area is too
mountainous to cultivate), there is a growing promise that Korea will be
able to achieve self-sufficiency in its staple foodgrains - rice and barley.
As a result it is anticipated that, in the future, imports of foodgrains will
amount to only about 5 percent of total imports and will consist mainly of
wheat, which cannot be grown in sufficient quantity because of Korea's
climate and topography.
Medium-Term Prospects and Program
19.        The goal of Korea's economic policy in 1976 and the succeeding
years is the achievement of the maximum rate of growth consistent with the
maintenance of internal financial stability and a sound balance of payments.
The potential for improvement in the balance of payments was foreshadowed by
Korea's performance in the second half of 1975. While the full year deficit
is estimated at $1.9 billion, the deficit in the first half of 1975 was $1.7
billion. The striking recovery in the second half was the result both of
export recovery and import restraint. During the first five months of 1975,
exports were 10 percent lower and imports 22 percent higher (in current
prices) than in the corresponding period in 1974. Since then, monthly exports
have risen steadily and imports were held below their 1974 levels, so that the
increase in values for the year as a whole is expected to have been 12 percent
for exports and 2 percent for imports. Allowing for changes in the unit value
of imports and exports, import volume is estimated to have declined by 3
percent in 1975 and export volume to have grown by 21 percent. Since the
Government had to increase grain imports to replenish food supplies and as



- 7 -
imports of other goods for domestic use amounted to less than 20 percent of
total imports and reductions could, therefore, not be quantitatively signifi-
cant, it was necessary to restrain the import of petroleum, capital goods and
raw materials for the production of export goods. As the restraint in the
import of raw materials was partially compensated for by the draw-down of
inventory levels and the decrease in the volume of capital goods imports, if
repeated in 1976, could adversely affect the expansion of capacity to produce
commodities for export in future years, the same degree of import restraint
cannot be sustained in 1976, when provision will have to be made for the
rising volume of production and trade.
20.        In the long-term, however, it is the firm intention of the Korean
Government to achieve a significant reduction in the size of the balance of
payments current account deficit both in absolute terms and, a fortiori, as a
proportion of GNP. The Government's aim is to reduce the deficit from the
peak of 12 percent of GNP in 1974 to 7.6 percent in 1976, and to lower it
further to about 1-2 percent of GNP by 1980. This strengthening of the
balance of payments will facilitate an improvement in the maturity structure
of external borrowing and reduce reliance on short-term credits.
21.        Before the recent international developments, Korea appeared to
be set on an economic course which could have led to its maintaining a rate
of growth of GNP of over 10 percent annually. However, these developments
have led Korea to lower its sights, modifying the expected rate of growth of
the economy to around 8 percent. In 1975, the growth of GNP is estimated
to have been about 7.4 percent compared to an average rate of around 10
percent in the previous decade. The rate of fixed investment is being sus-
tained at about 23 percent of GNP in 1976 but will have to increase during
the Fourth Plan period (1977-81) to permit achievement even of the reduced
target GNP growth rate. The great bulk of investment resources will continue
to go into the manufacturing sector and immediately associated infrastructure
requirements, with export growth being one of the principal criteria in
selecting investment projects. In this context, the Korean authorities have
recognized that efforts to deepen the industrial structure must proceed
selectively and investments must be geared to expand capacity in industries
which are skill-intensive, reflecting the country's international comparative
advantage. This recognition has led to significant modification of the
long-term investment plans which had been prepared in 1973 - specifically, a
postponement of planned rates of expansion of petrochemical and steel pro-
duction capacity and a shift of priorities towards electronics and machinery,
which are relatively labor intensive and have shorter gestation periods. The
development of the machinery industry is also seen as providing the basis for
greater import substitution in the coming years.
22.        In order to curtail aggregate demand in the effort to reduce
inflationary and import pressures, the Government proposes to continue to
restrain monetary expansion in 1976 and to monitor carefully the prices of
100 key consumer commodities. The increase in wholesale prices is expected
to be restrained to about 10 percent by the end of 1976, assuming that the
increase in import prices will be of the order of 5 percent during the year.



'3.        Success in restraining inflation is expected to have a signifi-
,ant  favorable effect on the mobilization of private savings.     In the
exceptional boom year of 1973, private savings reached 17.6 percent of
but, predictably, declined to about 15 percent in 1975 in response to
the slowdown in the growtlh of incones and the high rate of inflation.
Adjusting for the terms of trade loss, gross national income rose by 4.2
percent in 1974 and 3.2 percent in 1975; in 1976, no adverse movement in
the terms of trade is anticipated and incomes are projected to rise by
about 7 percent (at 1970 prices). The Korean Government is taking measures
designed to channel the higher private savings likely to be generated by
these developments to an increasing extent into the financial system and,
thereby, into more effective use for productive investments. In addition to
restoring a positive real rate of return on financial forms of savings
(through a reduction in the rate of inflation and, if required, necessary
corrective modification of the interest rate structure), the Government is
taking steps to increase the supply of government and corporate securities
to the public and to provide more attractive schemes for savings mobilization
by commercial banks. Among the measures designed to mop up private purchasing
power is the use of six-month certificates, instead of cash, in payment for
one-third of the rice procured by the Grain Management Fund this crop year -
amounting to about W 60 billion ($124 million), and carrying an interest
rate of 18 percent per annum.
24.        The measures to increase the mobilization of private savings
are being supported by fiscal actions to increase government savings. The
subsidization of farmers and urban consumers through the Grain Management
Fund and the Fertilizer Fund has placed a growing strain on Government
finances since 1974. In 1975, the borrowing from the Central Bank on the
two accounts is estimated at about W 350 billion (nearly 4 percent of GNP).
The Government is conscious of the importance of reducing this financial
burden and is taking the necessary remedial steps to slow down stock accumu-
lation and to adjust prices so as to eliminate the operating deficits. The
selling price of fertilizers was raised by 79 percent in December 1975, an
increase which is expected to eliminate the operating deficit of the Fertilizer
Fund.  Furthermore, the Government intends to set prices paid for the procure-
ment and sale of grain by the GMF at levels which will enable the elimination
of the operating deficit in respect of wheat in 1976 and rice in 1977,
leaving only a small deficit resulting from the subsidy on barley, sales of
which are primarily for the lower income groups. The overall operating
deficit of the GMF is to be totally eliminated in 1978, although the deficit
on barley sales may continue; however, the GMF will be permitted to continue
to incur cash deficits for the accumulation of grain inventories as needed.
25.       In addition to these measures to eliminate progressively the
deficits in the extra-budgetary accounts, strong measures have been taken
to maintain budgetary savings performance despite increased expenditures
on defense and government salaries. In response to the perceived need
to improve Korea's defense capability following the events in Indochina
and related developments, expenditures on defense have increased from
&.3 percent to 5.1 percent of GNP in 1975 and are budgeted to increase
further to 6.4 percent of GNP in 1976; and to improve the salary levels



- 9 -
of government officials, expenditures on salaries and pensions are bud-
geted to increase by 43 percent in 1975 and 61 percent in 1976. Against
the anticipated increase of W 595 billion in expenditure on these two
items in 1975 and 1976, budget revenues are expected to increase by W 903
billion. In part, the increase in revenues is the result of inflation in
nominal incomes, but a significant proportion, W 214 billion, is to be
contributed by the defense surtax imposed in July 1975. 1/ The increased
revenue mobilization and the strong restraint on other current expenditures
(which are not permitted to increase at all), will result in the budgetary
current surplus being maintained at over 3 percent of GNP.
26.       This combination of measures to strengthen the balance of pay-
ments and to improve the mobilization and effective utilization of domestic
resources should help Korea to emerge successfully from its present econo-
mic difficulties. The continued high levels of balance of payments deficits
in 1974 and 1975 were, at least partly, due to the need to sustain Korea's
export growth which, as we have noted, is a key determinant of its economic
performance. Investment requirements are dictated by the need to expand
export volume, diversify the commodity composition of exports and increase the
domestic value-added component of exports. Although Korea continues to look
to exports for its growth momentum and to narrow the balance of payments
deficit, it is at the same time attempting to replace imports with domestic
production, particularly in the foodgrain and machinery sectors, to the extent
possible. This will further increase investment requirements in the short
run. To sustain investment levels in the face of severe balance of payments
problems and uncertainties about the rate of recovery of international demand
doubtless involves an element of risk. However, the risk does not appear to
be unduly large, especially in the light of Korea's past export performance
and demonstrated flexibility in economic policy making; and there is a signif-
icant payoff to this strategy in maintaining the momentum of growth, which
might be difficult to restore if more severe contractionary policies were
undertaken. Finding the means to finance the external deficits will continue
to be Korea's most urgent economic challenge. The servicing of the sizeable
foreign borrowing required should not pose serious difficulties for Korea
given the present debt service ratio and the prospects for continued export
growth, provided, however, that external debt is incurred on as reasonable
terms as possible and in particular that the proportion of debt incurred on
short- and medium-terms and at high interest rates is not excessive. Assuming
that capital inflows will be forthcoming on reasonable terms, the debt service
ratio will rise from 13 percent in 1975 to about 16 percent in 1977 (due to
heavy medium-term borrowing in 1974 and 1975) and then decline to under 15
percent in 1980.
1/   The defense surtax is a temporary levy, until 1980, aimed at securing
financial resources required for increased national defense expenditures
without reducing pubLic expenditures on development.     The levy is pri-
marily a surtax on a number of existing taxes.



- 10 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
27.       As of May 31, 1976, Korea had received 26 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, amounting in total to $1,108.8
million in loans and $107.0 million in credits (taking into account cancel-
lations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan).
28.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been for the transport
sector - $219.7 million for railways, $191.5 million for highways and $80
million for ports. $130.5 million has been lent for agriculture projects.
The Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150 million,
the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $60 million, and the Medium Industry Bank
(MIB) $30 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. A total
of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects; $25.0 mil-
lion for a tourism project; $15.0 million for a secondary cities project; and
$60.0 million for a Rural Infrastructure Project. In addition, two Program
Loans amounting to $175.0 million have also been granted to Korea.
29.       As of May 31, 1976, about $628 million of the total Bank lend-
ing remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commit-
ments in the past eighteen months. Annex I contains a summary statement of
Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and Notes on
the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the Notes, progress on
project implementation is generally satisfactory.
30.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had
by May 31, 1976, entered into twelve commitments totalling $45.1 million
(net of participations and cancellations). Two additional investments
were approved by the IFC Board in June 1976 ($19 million for a zinc smelting
project and $10.4 million for an electronics products project). Under
advanced consideration is a further investment in electrical and electronic
products; under preliminary consideration are projects in cement distribution,
special steels, petrochemicals, construction materials and in leasing.
31.       Korea's ambitious industrial development programs require large
capital expenditures and further loans to the three major development banks
are planned to meet this need. This will enable the continuation of assist-
ance to a wide spectrum of industries, including small- and medium-sized
enterprises. With the closer relationship established as a result of recent
promotional efforts, we expect IFC's activities also to continue expanding
rapidly. TFC would seek projects that would: (a) result in foreign exchange
revenues or savings; (b) contribute to modernize or deepen the industrial
structure; and (c) increase value added in manufacturing.
32.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development will be reflected in the program for FY77. In addition to the
proposed project, the second stage of the Yong San Gang irrigation project
and a second agricultural credit project have been appraised.



33.        The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given relatively less
emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there
is considerable support for this sector in the proposed program.
34.        The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt (dis-
bursed) outstanding at the end of 1975 was about 8.5 percent, and the share
of debt service was of the order of 3.0 percent at that time. These ratios
are expected to increase somewhat by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
35.        The extraordinary expansion of Korea's export-oriented manufactur-
ing sector in recent years has, to a certain extent, obscured the tangible
and impressive, albeit less spectacular, gains made by the country's agri-
cultural sector; over the 1962-74 period its output increased by about 3.5
percent per annum (a rate comparable with that attained by Thailand, Indo-
nesia and the Philippines). Korea's agricultural exports (including those
of the fisheries sub-sector) rose from about $70 million equivalent in 1967
to approximately $423 million in 1974 and are estimated to have risen to
over $600 million in 1975. Further, despite the steady increase in indus-
trial wages, rising agricultural productivity and increased farmgate prices
have contributed towards the achievement of near-parity in the earnings of
urban and rural households. These achievements are all the more commendable
in view of the fact that, because of Korea's geo-physical features, only
about a quarter of its total land area of about 10 million hectares is cul-
tivable.
36.       The average farm size in Korea is about 0.9 ha, of which 0.5 ha
is paddy land, while upland crops, such as barley, maize, soybeans, fruit,
vegetables, tobacco, mulberries (for silkworm production) and other cash
crops are cultivated on the remaining extent. Nearly two-thirds of farm
households have less than 1 ha of cropland but only 4 percent of farm house-
holds are landless largely as a result of the Farmland Reform Law of 1950
which imposed a ceiling of 3 ha of cultivated land per household.
37.        Rice and barley are the major crops, accounting for two-thirds
of the total crop area. Due to climatic constraints, double cropping of
rice is not possible in Korea but a rice-barley rotation is practiced in
the southern regions and now occurs on about half of the total paddy land.
Rice yields in Korea are higher than those in South and Southeast Asia, re-
flecting a high level of input use and good management. High-yielding
varieties of rice were introduced in 1971 and are now grown on about
30 percent of the paddy area. Government plans call for an increase in
the areas under such varieties to 70 percent by 1980. The main constraints
on national foodgrain production, in addition to the severely limited total
area suitable for cultivation, are water control (irrigation and drainage),
varietal improvement (mainly of barley) and, to a lesser extent, agricultural
credit.



- 12 -
38*       The growth of agricultural output, which has been impressive as
_ompared with other East Asian countries especially when the country's geo-
physical features referred to in paragraph 35 above are taken into account,
has nevertheless not kept pace with domestic requirements. This has caused
the Government to be increasingly concerned with the need to raise agricul-
tural productivity and to devote additional resources to the development
of the agriculture sector. More than three times the resources budgeted
for agriculture in the previous Five Year Plan (1967-71) are included in the
current Plan (1972-76).
39.       The highest priority is being given to expanding foodgrain produc-
tion to achieve self-sufficiency to the extent possible. While it is realized
that self-sufficiency in wheat and corn will not be possible, efforts are
being made to increase the production of rice, barley and soybeans to meet
domestic requirements. This will have to be achieved mainly through higher
yields on presently cultivated land since future expansion is limited to about
200,000 ha of marginal uplands and to tidelands that can be economically
reclaimed. Rice yields are already high, but could be increased through irrig-
ation coupled with the wider use of high yielding varieties. Areas devoted to
winter cereals on ricelands can also be increased where the construction of
improved irrigation and drainage works would permit the timely planting and
harvesting of the rice crop. On the uplands, some increase in barley pro-
duction should be possible through the wider use of higher yielding and early
maturing varieties. The other major strand of the Government's agricultural
development strategy is the expansion of the output of fruits, vegetables,
mushrooms, tobacco, mulberry and livestock to increase farm incomes and to
utilize labor more fully.
40.       The Bank Group's lending for the agricultural sector in Korea has
been aimed at assisting in the achievement of these objectives. Of the
$130.5 million lent, to date, for agricultural projects, $93 million was
provided for the Pyongtaek Kumgang (Loan 600-KO) and Yong San Gang (Loan
795-KO-Credit/283-KO) Projects, which are expected to provide irrigation
for over 60,000 ha; $10.5 million has been made available for an Agricultural
Credit Project (Credit 335-KO) which supported a three year lending program
for the provision of medium- and long-term credit to Korean farmers through
the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) - which is the
country's main purveyor of agricultural credit - to develop orchards,
sericulture, mushroom production and to encourage the breeding of poultry
and swine; a S7.0 million Loan (942-KO) has been made for a Seeds Project
which is helping to develop higher yielding varieties of cereal crops, oil
seeds and potatoes for multiplication and distribution to farmers; $13
million has been lent for the Integrated Agricultural Products Processing
Project (Loan 994-KO) aimed at combining the on-farm production of commer-
cial crops on land that was idle or under-utilized with efficient and
hygienic processing facilities. A $7 million Credit (234-KO) has helped
finance a livestock project the main components of which are the establish-
ment of small- and medium-size dairy farms by providing long-term loans to
dairy farmers, the construction and operation of dairy products processing
plants and the provision of management and technlical services related to
these activities. In addition, a $20.0 million Bank Loan and a $40.0 million



- 13 -
Third Window Loan (1216-KO & 1218T-KO) are helping finance a Rural Infra-
structure Project involving the construction of minor irrigation facilities,
roads and bridges, water supply systems, the provision of rural electrifica-
tion, the development of fuelwood plantations, and upland reclamation. A
short description of these Projects and their current status is given in
Annex II.
41.       The proposed Miho Area Development Watershed project reflects the
belief that the further expansion of irrigation facilities will continue to
play an important role in the expansion of foodgrain production and crop
diversification which, as stated in paragraph 39 above, are the Government's
major policy objectives insofar as the agriculture sector is concerned. The
basic concept of the proposed project is to implement an integrated package of
irrigation and land improvement works in a specific area. Past investments
in irrigation have been largely concentrated on large-scale developments
involving major dams and canal systems in the coastal plains. In line with
its rural development policies, the Government is now placing more emphasis
on land and water development in the interior regions of Korea. Two approaches
are being followed. One is a nationwide program of minor irrigation projects
and upland reclamation as part of the Saemaeul Movement (these activities are
being supported under the Rural Infrastructure Project mentioned above).
The second approach, typified by the proposed project, is area specific and
involves the execution of larger and more complex project components than
would be appropriate for implementation under the Saemaeul Movement. The Miho
watershed was selected as being broadly typical of the interior regions of
Korea in terms of topography, present land use, and potential for further
development. Large-scale projects, area development, and minor irrigation -
all have a place in the Government's strategy for increasing agricultural
production and farm incomes.
42.       The concept of comprehensive development of selected areas
was introduced to Korea by two UNDP-assisted projects for which FAO was
the executing agency. UNDP/FAO specialists and government counterpart
staff evolved procedures for resource inventories and project formulation
and, in addition, implemented several small watershed projects. As a
follow-up to these recommendations, the Office of Watershed Development
(OWD) in the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), the implementing
agency for the Pyongtaek Kumgang and Yong San Gang Irrigation Projects,
carried out a feasibility study. The appraisal of the proposed project
provided an opportunity to assess the comprehensive approach to area
development in the context of detailed project proposals and has confirmed
the value of detailed resource inventories as a basis for area development
plans. Such inventories have particular relevance to Korea where, except
for the coastal plains, the land is broken up into many different types of
land use and land capability. Thus, within a watershed or any other
selected area, development planning has to take into account many small
hlocks of Land and numerous small rivers and streams.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       A report entitled "Miho Watershed Area Development Project" (No.
1130a-KO, dated July 8, 1976) is being distributed separately. A Loan and
Project Summary is attached as Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington from June 17 to 22, 1976 with a Korean delegation led by
Mr. H. K. Kang, Economic Counsellor at the Embassy of the Republic of Korea
in Washington.
44.       The proposed project aims at increasing agricultural production
and farm incomes on about 12,665 ha. It would provide irrigation over some
8,315 ha of land where crop production is presently dependent on rainfall.
Various forms of land development would be carried out in the irrigated area
to enable the cultivation of paddy and cash crops and the development of
orchards. Land development on some 4,350 ha outside the areas to be irrigated
by works constructed as part of the project would include land consolidation
on presently irrigated land and the development of uncultivated uplands for
rainfed crops. The main components of the proposed project are summarized
below:
(a) construction of dams and canals to irrigate 8,315 ha;
(b) conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to irri-
gated paddy fields in areas commanded by the above
canals;
(c) land consolidation, including construction of ditches,
drains and farm roads together with land levelling and
boundary realignment, on 4,600 ha (3,150 ha on presently
irrigated land and 1,450 ha in areas to be irrigated by
the project);
(d) development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland crops,
and 550 ha for orchards within the area to be irrigated;
(e) upland reclamation, primarily bench-terracing, of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land;
(f) improvement of about 80 km of river channels to increase
their flood discharge capacity;
(g) construction of about 150 km of village access roads;
(h) aerial photography, surveys, and mapping for the design
of project works; and
(i) provision of technical assistance, procurement of vehicles,
and a feasibility study for a second-stage project in the
bliho Watershed.



- 15 -
The Project Area
45.        The gross project area covers about 77,000 ha in the northern half
of the Miho river basin and is located about 90 km southeast of Seoul (see
attached map). It encompasses parts of three counties in the Chungcheong Bug
province. Jincheon, the largest town in the project area with a population
of 20,000, is the chief commercial and marketing center. It is connected
to the provincial capital of Cheongju 30 km to the south by an all-weather
road. Cheongju itself lies 15 km east of the Seoul-Busan expressway. The
topography of the area with its intricate pattern of hills and valleys is
typical of the central region of Korea. Over one-half of the land is too
steep for cultivation. Most of the suitable uplands and all of the lowland
areas in the valleys are cultivated. The project area has 180-190 frost-
free days. Annual precipitation averages about 1,100 mm with two-thirds
occurring during the rainy season (May through September). Even in the
summer, rainfall is unreliable, especially during the critical rice trans-
planting period (June). In addition, droughts occur sometimes in August
and September. Irrigation is therefore required to obtain optimum yields
from high-yielding varieties of rice.
46.        The present land use in the project area is as follows:
Area
(ha)                (%)
Forest                      42,500                 55
Cultivated Lowland           15,200                20
Cultivated Upland            13,600                18
Eroded Land                   1,100                 1
Other /a                      4,600                 6
77,000               100
/a    Includes towns, villages, roads, lakes and
rivers.
About 80 percent of the forest land is considered as well-stocked (a generally
complete cover of mature trees), and 20 percent consists of brush, small trees
and native grass. Eroded lands are usually found at higher elevations on
steep slopes with shallow soils. The potential for opening up new land for
cultivation is limited to about 1,900 ha. The cultivated lowlands consist
almost entirely of rice paddies, while the cultivated uplands are in the form
of terraces on sloping lands extending upwards from the edge of the paddies.
47.        Rice occupies virtually all of the 15,200 ha of lowland in the
summer and barley is planted on about 10 percent of the area in the winter.
On the 13,600 ha of uplands, a variety of vegetables, soybeans and tobacco
are grown in the summer, with barley being cultivated on about 40 percent of
the area in the winter.



- 16 -
hS.      Despite the relatively high yields and intensive land use in the
pro;Ject area, there is a considerable potential for further increases in
agricultural production through irrigation and land development. Rice
rarmers throughout Korea have shown their ability to take full advantage
of irrigation and drainage facilities. The provision of a timely and reliable
water supply would increase yields and also have the effect of reducing peak
labor demand since crop calendars would no longer be governed by rainfall.
Better timing of the rice crop would also lead to an increase in the area
planted to barley. In the irrigated area, land consolidation should result
in higher yields through better water control, lower labor requirements as
a result of easier access and conditions more suited to mechanical land pre-
paration, and an increased area under barley due to better drainage. Con-
version of uplands to paddy cultivation would be possible in areas which
can be supplied with irrigation water. There is also the possibility of
converting forest lands to crop production and orchards.
Detailed Features of the Project
49.       Dams and Canals.   The project would provide irrigation facilities
for an area of 8,315 ha, of which 7,115 ha would be served by four independent
irrigation units, each with its own dam and canal system, and the remaining
1,200 ha by 22 small dams and weirs. For the areas served by the four irri-
gation units, about 130 km of main canals and 140 km of laterals would be
constructed. A number of tunnels, culverts and other structures would be
needed because of irregular topography along the canal alignments. The areas
to be irrigated are generally narrow strips of land along the river valleys,
seldom more than 500 m wide and, consequently, the main canals and laterals
would serve much smaller blocks of land than is normally the case in large
irrigation systems. Therefore, the on-farm distribution systems would be
built by farmers, except for some large blocks totalling 1,450 ha where land
consolidation would be carried out.
50.       Land Development.   This component of the proposed project would
consist of several elements:
(a)  Conversion of Uplands to Paddy.    In areas to be irrigated by
the project works, 2,045 ha of cultivated uplands would be
converted to paddy cultivation. The areas to be developed
have slopes up to 15 percent and they would be converted
into a series of horizontal benches with widths ranging
from 5 to 10 m depending on the slopes. Uplands to be
converted would be carefully selected to ensure that soils
are suited to paddy cultivation and to avoid disturbing the
production of high-value crops.
(b)  Land Consolidation.   This work would be carried out on 1.450
ha of the paddy land in the areas to be irrigated by the
project works and on 3,150 ha of the paddy land which is



- 17 -
already irrigated in the project area. Land consolidation
consists of replacing the existing uneven pattern of small
irregular plots with larger levelled plots in a rectangular
grid of ditches, farm roads and drains.
(c) Furrow Irrigation. An area of 495 ha of uplands, of which
410 ha is presently cultivated, would be developed for furrow
irrigation. In these areas the soils are too shallow to be
benched for paddy cultivation.
(d) Orchard Development. There are about 550 ha of uncultivated
land with fairly steep slopes in small plots close to the pro-
posed canal alignments. The access provided by the canal
roads and the availability of water would provide a strong
incentive for development of these lands as orchards. The
land would be cleared and graded as part of the project, but
orchard establishment would be left to the farmers.
(e) Upland Reclamation. H4ost of the cultivable land in the
watershed is already being farmed, but detailed surveys
have revealed numerous small areas of uncultivated land
totalling about 1,800 ha, which could be developed for
crop production. About 1,200 ha of the uncultivated land
would be developed for the production of rainfed upland
crops, including barley, soybeans, fruits and vegetables.
Surveys indicate that bench-terracing would be appropriate
in the project area since the soils are generally deep and
of medium fertility. This would be confirmed as planning
and design proceeds. As the existing ADC standards for the
design and construction of upland reclamation are not suit-
able, agreement has been reached that appropriate standards
(similar to those agreed upon for the Rural Infrastructure
Project) would be employed throughout the implementation of this
component. (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Channel Improvement.   Sections of river channels with a total length
of about 80 km would be improved to prevent flooding of cultivated land bor-
dering the rivers. Floods occur several times during the rainy season and
damage rice and other crops. Channels would be deepened and in some cases
straightened. Materials excavated from the rivers would be used to construct
about 100 km of flood embankments, or levees, about 2 to 3 m high, to protect
low-lying areas.
52.       Village Access Roads.   About 150 km of 4-5 m wide gravel surfaced
roads would be constructed in the project area to provide access for equip-
ment and vehicles to areas where irrigation and land development would be
carried out. These roads would also serve as part of the county road system
linking the village to existing national or provincial highways.



- 18 -
53.       Surveys and Mapping.   Aerial photography of the project area to a
scale of 1:15,000 was carried out in 1972. This was used for the resource
inventory forming a basis for the feasibility report. Photography to a
scale of 1:8,000 is required to prepare maps for land acquisition and for
detailed designs. Dam-sites and areas scheduled for land development,
reservoirs, and canal alignments would be mapped. The maps would be prepared
by photogrammetry, but ground surveys would be carried out in areas where land
development is planned to attain the necessary precision in ground surface
elevations. Contractors would be employed for aerial photography, photo-
grammetry and ground control surveys. ADC surveyors would undertake supple-
mentary ground surveys.
54.       Feasibility Study for Stage II.   The total area of the Miho Watershed
is approximately 187,000 ha of which 77,000 ha constitutes the gross area for
the proposed project. The feasibility study for a second-stage project in the
remaining 110,000 ha of the Miho watershed would be carried out by ADC.
Primary responsibility within ADC would be assigned to the Office of Watershed
Development, whose capacity to carry out such a study was demonstrated in the
preparation of the proposed project. Assurances were obtained that ADC would
employ suitable consultants to assist the OWD (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
55.       The total project cost is estimated at $75.0 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $29.0 million (39 percent) which would be
met from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan. Physical contingencies
of 15 percent have been applied to the base cost estimates for civil
works, while provision of about 35 percent of the base cost estimates has
been made to cover expected price increases over the project implementation
period. The foreign exchange component has been estimated on the assump-
tion that all civil works contracts would be won by local contractors.
Local expenditures, representing the estimated balance of project costs,
would be met through annual Government budgetary allocations to ADC.
Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex III.
Procurement
56.       Contracts for civil works construction and for the supply of
cement and reinforcing steel would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. ADC's policy
is to supply contractors with the cement and steel to be incorporated in the
works. These materials would be procured in bulk on behalf of ADC by the
Office of Supply, Republic of Korea. A preferential margin of 15 percent
of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the customs duty, whichever
is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. The total value of all civil works contracts (exclusive of price
contingencies) would be about $33 million.    Civil works would be packaged
together by areas to form about five contracts with an average value of
about $6 million. Cement ($2.0 million) and reinforcing steel ($2.5 million)
would be procured under contracts of about $0.5 million each in order to



- 19 -
keep the supply of materials in line with requirements. Aerial photography
and mapping services ($0.5 million) and vehicles ($80,000) would be procured
through normal government procurement procedures. There are sufficient
suppliers of such services and vehicles to ensure adequate competition.
Disbursements
57.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100 percent against
the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and materials, and
65 percent of expenditures for equipment and materials manufactured locally.
For consultants' services, disbursements would equal 65 percent of local costs
or 100 percent of foreign expenditures. Disbursements for civil works would
be at 40 percent of total expenditures against certified monthly contractors'
progress payments. The disbursement schedule is given in Annex III.
Organization and Management
58.       The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a semi-autonomous
agency operating under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), would
be responsible for project implementation. Responsibility for designs,
procurement and construction supervision would rest with ADC's Office of
Watershed Development (OWD), which carried out the project feasibility study.
Some of OWD's key personnel gained experience in the design and execution of
irrigation and land development works through their participation in the UNDP
upland development and watershed projects. Additional staff would however
be needed, and assurances were obtained that ADC would assign to OWD the
technical and administrative staff needed to implement the project (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). ADC would employ consultants on periodic
short-term assignments to assist OWD in the final designs of the dams and
canals (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Agricultural services in the project area are well organized and
would provide adequate support to farmers in realizing project benefits. The
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries' Office of Rural Development (ORD)
is the agency with primary responsibility for agricultural research, extension
and training. The experimental and demonstration results of research are well
documented and extension pamphlets and posters are adequate for current
extension needs. The four counties included in the project area have sufficient
extension workers for tne purposes of the project.
60.       Responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing
irrigation projects in Korea rests with the Farm Land Improvement Associations
(FLIAs). Three FLIAs, presently operating 5,700 ha in the project area,
would be responsible for the additional areas to be developed by the project.
The FLIAs would operate and maintain the irrigation systems, schedule water
deliveries, allocate and collect project charges, provide extension service
and enter into cooperative arrangements with other agencies, such as the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) and ORD, for various
kinds of assistance to the farmers. Several small irrigation systems, which
would be constructed in isolated areas, would be operated by Water User
Groups or Hung Nong Gaes. ADC would establish these groups, which may in
time become big enough to form FLIAs, or join with existing FLIAs.    The



- 20 -
standard of O&M on existing irrigation systems in the project area is
generallv quite satisfactorv. The cost of adequate O&M (in early-1976 prices)
would average about Won 27,650/ha ($57/ha).
61.       Almost all supplies of inputs and credit originating from Govern-
ment sources are supplied through the cooperative system, which also handles
marketing of a number of crops. Some 90 percent of project area farmers
are members of district cooperatives. These primary cooperatives are success-
ively grouped into county agricultural cooperative federations, and ulti-
mately NACF. NACF anticipates no difficulties in providing the farmers
participating in the proposed project with their requirements of seeds and
fertilizer. At full development some 8,800 farmers would require an estimated
Won 1,100 million ($2.3 million) production credit annually. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government would make the necessary
arrangements to ensure that adequate credit is provided to farmers to finance
their requirements of farm inputs and hired labor (Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Cost Recovery
62.        In areas irrigated by the project, farmers would pay the full cost
of O&M through a water charge imposed and collected by the FLIA, as well as
an annual charge to repay 30 percent of the capital cost of the irrigation
facilities (about $3,800/ha on average excluding the farmers' labor used
to construct the on-farm network) over 35 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at 3.5 percent (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). Farmers also pay a production tax of 6 percent on all foodgrain
production above 1.4 ton/farm on the ricelands, and 6 percent of the gross
value of crop production above Won 85,000/ha on the uplands. Using a
discount rate of 10 percent and a period of 35 years, the water charges and
production taxes would together yield a cost recovery index of 36 percent.
At full project development on a 1.5 ha farm, incremental 0&M4 charges,
capital repaynents, and direct taxes due to the irrigation facilities
would total Won 100,000 annually, or 18 percent of incremental income
(Won 562,000/year). The beneficiaries of the upland reclamation sub-
project would repay 30 percent of the capital cost at 9 percent interest,
with repayment over eight years (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agree-
ment). This implies a cost recovery index of 41 percent. No difficulties
are expected in the collection of the project charges referred to above
since past experience on a country-wide basis shows that defaults did not
exceed 2 percent of annual assessments.
Environmental Effects
63.        Experience in Korea has shown that the development of irrigation
has no adverse effects on the environment. On the benefit side, drainage
would be improved under the project, and the reservoirs would reduce the
frequency of floods and damage to cultivable land.



i'roject Benefits and Risks
64.        Implementation of the project would lead to changes in land use,
a more intensive cropping pattern, and higher yields. It would increase
rice production by 23,000 tons and barley production by about 9,000 tons.
Income on a 0.5 ha farm benefiting from the project would increase from $870
to S1,220 at full development. For 1.5 ha and 2.5 ha farms the respective
increases in incomes would be from $1,650 to $3,040 and from $2,480 to
S4 ,620.
65.       The proposed project would benefit directly some 10,400 farm
farmilies or approximately 63,000 persons, about half the rural popula-
tion of the project area. It has been estimated that about a third of
the beneficiaries currently have per capita incomes below the proverty
level of around $165. The incomes of this group will increase on average
by about 50 percent as a result of the project, taking about half the
farmers in this group above the poverty line. The project will also
result in narrowing the gap between the incomes of the farmers in the area
generally and the national average per capita income. A further 60,000
people would benefit indirectly from the village access roads and channel
improvement components. By increasing annual cropping intensity and the
net cultivable area, the project would create a demand for an additional
496,000 man-days of farm labor per year, or about 2,100 man-years. The
proposed villages access roads would facilitate the moving, and reduce
transport costs, of farm inputs and produce, allow villagers to enter the
market economy more fully, and enable children from more isolated areas to
attend school. The project would support the Government's policies to
increase foodgrain production, and consequently rural incomes.
66.        At full agricultural development the project would result in rice
import savings of Won 3,500 million ($7 million) annually at the projected
world market price, c.i.f. Incheon/Busan. After deducting the incremental
cost of imported fertilizers, chemicals, fuel and other farm inputs, annual
net foreign exchange savings would amount to about Won 2,500 million
(S5 million).
67.        The project's overall economic rate of return would be 15 percent
using a 35-year evaluation period with full project benefits being attained
in 1991. The project's rate of return shows little sensitivity to vari-
ations in the cost estimates or in assumption amde concerning the timing
of agricultural benefits. Somewhat higher sensitivity is shown to reduc-
,ion in the level of benefits, emphasizing the importance of the timely
v.'ailabilitv of adequate credit and new farm inputs, but in no case is the
rate of return for the entire project expected to fall below 12 percent.
68.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
oDerations of this type.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Agricultural
Development Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Korea and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Director separately. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements follow the
pattern of Bank agreements for loans of this kind. The special features of
this project are referred to in paragraphs 49 through 62 of this report.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 14, 1976



ANNEX I
POE. I of 4 p.ge.
TABLE 3A
KOREA, REP. 0F      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KtU21
KUREA, RFP. o0                     REFERENCE COU4TRIES I 1970)
TOTAL       98.5                                      MOST RECENT
ARABLE         *-                      1960      1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND      TURKEY         JAPAN **
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     11U.0       270.0      400.3              21J.)       45..J     2570.0
POPULATInN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIVN (MID-YR, MILLION)            25.0        31.4       32.9               36.3        35.2      104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       250.0      319.0       334.0               71.0       45.3       280.0
PFP SQUARE KM. ARARLF LAND              ..      749.0          ..                 ..       140.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUnE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         4G.0 U     28.0        27.J               43.0        38.'0 /a   19.0
CRUDE nEATH RATE PEP THOUSANn         11.0 :      8.0         7. a              to.0        13.3 a      7.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)           ..         ..  -       ..               80.0      145.0        13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        SD.C       65.0          ..               59.0        55.0 /b    72.0
GPrSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1 /b      2.6        2.4                3.2         2. 67.b    1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE IS)
TOTAL                                  2.8        2.4         2.2                3.1         2.5        1.0
URBAN                                  5.9 /c     6.0          ..                5.0         4.5        2.5
URHAN POPULATION It n1- TOTALI          28.0        41.0         ..               13.0        39.J        72.O
AGF STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
O To 14 YEARS                        44.0       42.1        39.9               45.0       41.8        24.0
IS TO 64 YEARS                        53.0       54.o        56.7              52.0        53.9       68.9
6S YEARS AND OVER                      3.0         3.3        3.4                3.0         4.3        7.1
AGF OEPrNDENCY R4ATI                     0.9        0.8         0.8                0.9         0.9 /      0.5
FCONOmIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5 Id      1.4        1.4                1.2         1.1  '     0.6
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCFPTORS ICUMULATIVE, THOU)                 5..               ..              550.       489.0 /d
USE2S IS OF MARRIFD W`EFNI              ..          .          ..               10.0         R.2
EMPLOYMENT
TnTAL LABOR FrRCE ITHOUSANDI          7500.0    10400.0     121OO.0            16700.0    14500.0 /e 53330.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE 12)          66.0        50.5       50.6               79.0        67.0       19.0
UNFMPLOYED IS nF LABOR FrRLE)            S.O         5.0 /a     .5                 ..         4.0 /t      1.2
INCOmE .TSTRIBUTION
t OF PRIVATF INCOME RECID BY-
HIGHEST 5 rF POPULATION              17.0 /e     20.       18.1  a              ..        82.8 a     14.2 I
HIGHEST 202t OF POPULATION            42.0 7     47.1        43.4                 ..        60.6       3.6 
LOwEST  20X OF POPULATION              7.0 7i     6. 1        7.2 Li              ..        2 .        8.8 7
L'WEST  403 nF POPULATIO.             20 .0       16.2       18.7                .,          9.4       2 72.3 3
nISTRI3UTION nF LAND OwNERSHIP
______________________________
t OWN-E dY TOP 10f OF OWA PS            27.0        28.3         ..                 ..        53.J
g O*NFPT BY S'ALLEST 10 OWNERS          3.0        2.0          ..                  ..9
HEALTH AND NJTRITIUN
pnpULATION PEa PHYSICIAN             3000.0 /a,f2210.0 /b    1870.0             7970.0      2220.0      880.0
POIPULATION PER NJRSING PFRSON        3220.0 /7?E760 0 7_    1360.0  /b         2270.0 a    1880.0 .O   240.0
POPULATIIN PER HOSPITAL AED           76bO.l 7a- 1970.0      1850.0              850.0      490.0        80.0
PEP CAPITA SUPPLY UF -
CALORIES (I CF REQUIPErEENTS)         85.3       103.0      107.0              105.0       11J.0      I06.4
PROTrIN (IRAS PER DAYI                03.0        65.0       68.0               52.G        78.J       76.0
-OF WrIICH  NIM4AL ANO PJLSE        13.0 /a     19.0         ..               17.0 /b    22.0 /i     45 .
OEATH RATF 1/THOUI AI;ES 1-4              ..          ..         ..                 ..        15.J /b     1.J
EDUCATIL'N
ADJUSTED FNRPLLFNT WATIr
PRoMACY SCHOOL                        9S.0       I04. J       8.0               80.0       111.3      IUO.O
SL3pONOAY SCHOOL                      27.0        41.0         ..               13.3        28.0       9J.0
YEORRS OF SCHOCLING prV InEl
iF IST ANr SFCUNt' LEVfL I            12.0        12.0       12.0               12.0        11.0       12.0
VlJCAFInNAL ENROILLMFNT
IS OD SECONDARY)                      14.3        15.0       o.0               14.00      14.0        20.0
ADULT LITFRACY RATE I%$                   ..          ..       52.0 j               ..        SS.3 '     99.0
HOUSI NG
PERSCONS PFR ;cPO (AVERAGF)              2.3         2.7         ..                 ..         1.9        1.0
OCCUPIFD OWELLINGS WITHnUT
PIPED WATFC IY)                       9U. 3 /g    80.0 /c      . .                         64.          5.0
ACCFSS TO ELECTRICITY
r. OF ALL OwELLINGS)                  28.        SC.0        83.J                 *-       41. 
pOJVAL OWFLLINGS CO1NNECTFO
TO FL0CTRICITY 141                    12.0        30.0       40.0                 ..       Io.O
C UN SUMPTI ON
PA01" ilCCIvFAS (PER THO'l PCP)         3.0        126.0      1 7.0               78.1        r.O       551.0
PAS4FNrFv CAgS (PER THOU POPl            0.4         2.0        2.J                S.u         4.3       85.3
FLECT0ICITY (KwH/YR PER CAP)            71.0       3u9.0      3S2.u              12J.0       24,.0     3446 .0
"IEWSPIINlT (IKO/YP PEP CAP)             ' ,          .4         1 3               1. 0        J 7       18.9
SFE rIrS A5'O DEFINITIONS nO: RFVElSF



ANNEX I
Fage 2 -ct P. pge
Unle-   -ch-r- noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1960 and 1970, and for Most RecentL Estirsate between 1971 and 1973.
nO  pen has bee   selectd as an objc.tive cotnty due to the siilarity of the presen       Kor-a   cointoi structure   to that of Japanto rho vild-lofri- (with cho -no
principle r-surce base. i..      fficient, i.d.atriewa, cheap labor and heavy reliance on imported raw    Maerao)     -Nrov-r     agicicr       .tranport, and other
ocooof the -cony have ainilar Charaoteristicn.      Korea also has   a pattern of industrial developanni  which to not very dlifferent l1ne tne Ace Japan,
no.rnued with great success in the stx'tien.
,OREA  fEib  IF     1960    /o  1962,    /b  1950-55,   /c  1955-h0,    Id  Rato. of popolation ceder 11 and h5 and over to total labor force;      Ae   Wage van  nalarj
-oose ofsrbai, housesnide, 196is;    If   Registered, sot all practicing on too~ coscLr.Y;       Water piped inside.
1910    /a  RegisLteed;    /h  Registered, not all practicing in the cowetry,     /c  Water piped inside.
MOOT aSCENT F,OTThATE-    /a  tatrnl and urban houeehoidal   /b   Regiatered, not all practicisg on toe. country;    Ic  lu year.s old and over.
THii.LIAND          1970    /a  Isciading midwives,    /b  1964-66,    /c  Publi.c ah-oI, which isoindes technical education at the poat-sneondary leve.
TURKEY              1970    /a  Esclnden 17 eastern provinces.     /b  1965-67;   /c  facto. of popsiutine snder 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 yearn old
and over;    /d  1964 - June 1974, 96 pe~rcent being IODs:    /n  15 yearn and over, occludes oneotpleyed;    /f  Registered only;
lp  Dliupoable incens  nf hsuaehlds,     lb  Including astntnurse.sland midwives;         /I  1964-66.   Li. Peruonn sis yearn old and
ove who tell the ceSstakers that they nan read and write..
JAPAN               1910    IaHousoholdu.
R7, March 24., 1976
EPTNTTIONS OF SDCIAL INDIATORS
[-aru  Aa (thou km2                                                                   Popuilation peri nrig Pesn- population divided by noumshe of pranti-
Total'Totarsrfree      area oseiprising land area and inland waters,                    sigmaean         maale graute nurses, eltraineds or "Certified" nurses,
Itble.   Most recnet estimate of lend area used temporarily or permanently              and auxriliary personnel with training or experience.
'75-rcult;vstion, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to lie fallowe.             hTt    ...n   lo       albd - Population divided by number of hospital
a  C p  IC and privste generel and specialised hospital
GNP   ~      5$   -SI    e   apt     siaesa        aktprcs        sr-and rehabilitation cen ters: excludes nursing hones sod establisiments
nc noconversion method as World Rank Atlas (1979-7h basis),                     for Cusstodial and preven.tive cAre.
Pe  aiasply of  0loins 3 of ,reouirements) - Com,puted from
tnrulntlon and vital statistics                                                         energy equvalnOTf of n    bfooda iple    .avidable in country per
Povuinston (mid-yr . plin) - is of July flirst; if not available, average          capita per day; available supplies comp,rise donestic production,
oftwo end-year estimtes.                                                             imiports lees exportn. sod changes in stock; set supplies exolude
animal feed, seedo, quantities used in food processing and loseso
Popula:tion_densitty -ersuar      e - Mid-yeair population per square kilo-             in distribution; re,quirenenta ware estimated by FAO based on p96"si-
enter(107hectrev)of stal: araological sneds for normal activity aod health considering environ-
Popu.lation desity -per squar    lot of arable land - Computed as above for             mental tenmperaturn. hod' weighis, age and sex distributions of popu-
arbe ladonlyf.                                                                      ition, and alloucing 106 for waste at household lev,el.
Per capita -uply of protein (grains p-c day) - Protein Content of per
Vital snutiotios                                                                         cap ita net supply of food per day; oat supply of food in defined an
Crude birth rate Car thousand - Annual lice births per thousand of mid-                  above; reqoireenoto for all countries entablished bly USD1 Economic
year populotion; usuall   five-year averages ending in 1960, 17      n                 Research Services provide for a mint-non allowance o    ogass        oa
1975 for developing countries,                                                        protein per, day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
Cru,de death rate per thousand - Annnual daathc- per thousnod of mid-year,               grans should ha s-toa   prcte.in; these steoandsrd  ar  lower than those
.popolaior; uulyfv-yea.r averages ending in 1960, 1970 san 1975                        cc I5 grams, of total protein end 23 grust  of animal protain an an aver-
for deeelopig, co-tries.                                                              age for thse world, proposed by PRO in the Third World Fond Survey.
Infant s,nrtal)41 rate jjthonu)- Annual deaths of infants under one year               Per apiFta protein suply,from animal snd pulse - Protein supply of food
CTienSTusTTl           thrbs.                                                   drved fo      anmladlsesai          grams per day.
life omp t-  c  atbirth _ern)     Average number of yesars of life remai-              baeath rate C/thou) ages !:.h - Annual deaths per thousanid in age group 1-4u
n-co  brh  o"oally five-ya  veae     nding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                eas    to childrec  nti     g   eu;sgetdon indiao                  fml
far developing ocuntrien.                                                              nutrition.
Cmoos  -ronrduction rate - Average camber of live daughters a woman will
ora- Sr her nor'nal reproductive period if she experiences present age-              Education
opeco-foc for,tulity rotes; wuaolly five-year averages ending in 1960,              Adutied enrollment ratio      rmrysho           Enrollment of all ages a,s
l97S aci 2707 for developing Countries.                                               paeretg     fpiaysho-g             popultion; includes children aged
nulto  rowi hateo       tota  - Compound annrual growth rates of nid-             6-il yerarInlbt adnosced for different lengths of primary education,
Yea  pounhr       o   9360     907, ned 1960 in mast receni year.                      for roustries with universal educsation, enrollment may extend 100%
0coulcicn '-oath run 3%)- uran - ompued lik  grwhrteoaoa                      since none pupils are below or above the official school age.
ocpclinnn;diffrent definitions of urban aeas may offect cospra-                 Adjustedrenrollment rPatiot -scondarscol-Cmueasbv;ncod
ilit    -   oamaong countr ies.                                                        ar   dcto      eursa        es    oryearn of apprnved primary inn,rur-
rbac norulanbocn (5 of toal    - Ration of urban, to total population;                   tion; provides gecerel. vocational cr teacher training instruction for
dffrfenst do.ftittlons or urbar areas may affect Comparability of data                 pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; corr,evpondencn Courses are generally
.more conn-ctes.                                                                       excluded.
Az     tu-e~ .       n' - Children (P-lb years), working age (15-61. yeare),           Years nf schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total yealrn of
-ndi "viti-vd (65 years acd over) an percentages of mid-year population,               schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially
i,neit-u-s ratio - latin of population under 15 and 65 and over to                       or completely excluded.
fhcscV age  15 trough61,.                                                     Vocational eurollment (6 ufbsecon.da.ry) - Vocational institutions include
Euocoec  vpoodoov ratbo-  Patioof population under 15 and 65 adoetchil,nusrlor                              othr pogram   which operate independently
toth b?'or "crr00 in age group of 15-61. yearn,                                    or en departeerts of secondary institutions.
Faintly, pbcnv      cceptors (cumulativne,tho1u) - Cumuilative cotter of               Adult literncy rae()-Literate adults (able to read and write) as
tu:-o o  birth  ontrol  evicos  nder ospices of naticonal family        pecnaeo        .la   adult population sped 15 years and over.
Ot  ro,run om-n inception.
usnc'-ucrntk   fma     ediwuent) - Percentages of mar,ried                fsn
wooer cor rhi' 1-be.-Ln   age        Y.eaW Twhbo use birth-csntrul devices           Peron   per room (average) - Average number of persons per moom in occupied
a'! conrid none- to caie age group,                                                 conventional dwellings in urban areas; chellings exclude non-peroennt
ottuccures and unoccupied parts.
loplosfibsno-                                                    Oc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,cupied dwellings wthot  piped1etert (6) - Occupied conventional dwell-
fotl lta     fo-c ;thoousnd) - blnon-eically active persocs, including                   lags in urbao sodwrural nreo   thihut Inside or outside piped water
arned forona nod   nemployed but excluding h-osewicn, students, etc.;                  facilities no Pmoec tage cf all ocpid dtwellings.
ie'rtasi- vurioos countries are not comparable.                               Access to electric,ity (5 of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Thbor force inagiculture      (6) -  gtutrllabor force (in farming,                      elcrciyi        liin    r,irteru as percent of toadwellings tn urban
f,etryjWhunting and finbhing) as percentage of total labor force.                   and cia-al areas,
oCp vyeni (5 of labor force   - Unemploeds are usually defined as persons            Ruraldulics c-nnecied to eluotrinity(5         - Computed an above for rural
cc: abl "Ie arn cullice to tabs o nob, Cot of a -;ub on a given day.                duceell, only
on-1'e   Oif'~  a lobI,and seeking, work for a specified minion,=
00 io to- eceeit     on  ieel; -nayo'i be comparable between Countries             Consi-ptoo
ifferent de. otno     of unenpluyed and vourre of data, e.g.,               Ndnrcxes(e             hrpp         1  tyns o'rciesfrrdoicd
one-r  ffi-co ctu:nstlcs. samiple nur,evo, cmusrunemplo,cment                   ca'    o   neo    nolt     r 'uns-nd of opualtiono; excludes i--
ito J.ni                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~licen-c  receivers ino countries aid ic years when registrntioc of
radio onto was no eff-oc;; data for recent yearn may sot be compaable
-ncoe dln.trlbution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and                     since ns   countries aboclished licensiog.
kbud] r,Ce:,-c by rsc1oent 5%, ricesot 2)%, poorest 205, and poorest                 Passenger torn (per tint pcpi - Passnanger Cars Comprise mctor Cars seat-
':I'1 of' popu,ltioc.                                                                  ing less thus eight persons; occludes aebulanres. hearses and
Dlotriouc-n- of landtawnorshlp     Prearotages of land owned by wealIth-               Ileciroto-    okwh/vr oar nap)  Annuol   onoiton     f industrial, ocsser-
tent In,% and nCnest10% of lan d owners.                                               ciAl, publIc and private eloctricity In kilowatt hours per capita;
generally based on prntuctinn data, without allowance for looses in
IvAlIt ac! 'butin-ticn,                                                                  grids hut allowing fcr imports and exports of electricity.
'ou    e it n  onysician - Pspulation dividea by nunher of practicing            Newslprint (be/or per cop) - Per Capita annual consumption in kilograe-
'in-bo-  oun2ifiod from a nedice1 school at university level.                       estimated from domestic production plun net imports of newsbrist.



ANNE 1
EWDNOMIC DEJELOPME18T DATA
(A-t,.,   .-11i-c of U.S. D01II-)
A,ttua                        1'oe,td972-                      1974-     1Q75-     (980-
1972      1973       1974      1973      1976      1980      1974       1975      1980      1983       97'.      11        1Q8
NATIONAL AC-OUNTS                         ~~~~~1973 Price. and  ah,n.-R Race                 Awrage August Crpnth ates                 As Porceot of GUY
Dre  oe.ti, Prodoct                    10.666    12,415    13,474    i4,471     1'i,4114  21.01i      12.5       7.4        7.8       8.7      103.?     109.5     706.3
Gat-. Ir   T-. of Tr.de    +              116               - ....oM  -1-L.2.54  j,..2S5A  -1.254       -         -          -        --        -5.2      -9.5      -6.3
Crona Do.e.tic lec..e                     10.76?    12,415    12,810    13,217     14.230    19.764       9.1      T!7        F8z        S.1      TIm)      100.0     100.0
lWort I inoladlog 810)                    3.435      4.367     4.636     4.573     4,868      7,342      16.2      -1.3        9.9       9.0       36.2     34.6       37.2
Eaoo-t.    1.rt fgaeity)                2.771     3.6       2_        3 ,4      4.132      7.126       9.2       4.1       15.7      12.0       25.8      26.0      36.1
R--orc   Cap                               -644       -60     -1.328    -1.133       -736      -216      41.1     -14.7         -    -        -    10.4      -8.6      -1.1
Cona,ptioo lEpeaditr.-                     9.0t7     9,598    10.780    11,434     t2.118    16.540       9.3       6.1        7.6       7.3       34.2      86.5      83.7
I,r...t.en-t   (i.e1. stocks)             2.21?      3.230     4,185     4.113     3.566      6,100      37.8      -1.7       8.3       12.2       32.7      51.1      30.9
De.tlc ScoIng  /                       1,629     2,817     2.694     3,037     3,366      4,477      28.8      12.7       12.7      12.5       21.0      23.0      22.7
5.1100.1 S-vIng.-                          1,772     2,914     2,721     2,970      3,042,    4,261      23.6       9.2       12.3      13.0        21.2     22.5      21.6
IERC3ANDIS1 TRADEg                                        Anuol Dat.. at C.arret Pelt..                                                               A. Percet of T0.1l
Capital Good.                            762      1,157     1.849      1,837     2,05s     2.900      57.0      -0.7        9.6      16.1       27.0      25.9      20.7
Ie.tr-dlt.t Goode   ec.f@.              1.118     2.110     2,943     2,968      3.391     6,492      63.5        0.9      16.9      18.8       43.0      41.8      46.4
P,..la a..d Related Katerial.            230        312     1,150     1,395      1.700     2.700     150.0      21.3       16.1      15.3       16.8      19.7      19.3
of .dich. patrol.,,                   221       277     1.109      1.340     1.605     2.680     130.0       20.8      14.9      15.5       16.2      18.9      19.2
C.maepti.. Goods                                    66..~.   1          900j ...   954     I g        48.5       -1.1      1k..I     14.2       13.3      12-7      1.6I.
Total March. I.orr. (elf)               2,522     42-40     6.852      7,100     8.100    15,992      63.0        3.6      14.5      12.1      1'30.0    100.4     100.0
E.port.
Priesry p-dbcts (end, t.9lS)              269       327       422       301        567     1,361      25.0      18.7       21.8      19.8        9.4       9.9      10.0
F.fol..;od rlatead  I.ll
of ,ioh                               isrlaaI'1  35      10a        115       120       175     160.0        6.5       8.7       7.0         2.4      2.3       1,3
K&M nfaet.red Goods                      J   ~    j 2.        f       4-44.      5.i663   11.891                 11.6                l      ~    .JL      a7.0      6L.7
Total Ker.h. Report. (fa6)              1,676     3,271     4,515      5,064     6.350    t3.607      66.0       12.2      21.2      19.8      100.0     100.0     100.0
Toorl. sod Border T,sd.                   -         -         -          -         -         -
M.rch.odia. Tradc 10dt...                                Average 1973- 100
I.po-t Pri-e lode.                         79       100       127        119       1,4       150      27         -7         5         7
lap-re Pri-e lode.                         75       100       156       164        171       208      64         5          5         7
Tr.~ of T-ade lode.                       106       10o        81         72        72        72     -13        -11         -         -
Exports Vol..- lode.                       64       100       109        ;12       158       277      30        21         16        11
VAL.UE 4110D BY SjECOR                         A.1      toat 12U                                            A ee.  odtrhoe  c..4eeg A-1c Groat) Net"  A. Percent of Total
Agr1c.It-r                              3.201     3.500     3,620     3,837      3,952     4,633       6          6         4         2          29       29        23
'I-a,,.n,-t, - . -t. a  Mielno          2.140     2,885     3,311     3,708     4,152      6,194      24        12         Il        13         27        28        30
,!Ihtr ,,t, in.                        4.368     4.975      5.549     5.715     6,4       9.560       13         3        11I         8         44       447
Total                                   9.709    11,358    12,480    13,260     14,250    20,387      1.5         7                 - 9         100      100       100
PUBLIC FINAN1CE
(ce."Al G-roxam)                         5/         6/                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As ftrcent of GDY
Corret R-eipt.                          1.701     1,530     1,862     2.19?95/   2.531;,   3,B70       5        18         12        10         15        17        19
C-oret foosodItr.-                      1-5       1OI,      i"           ft idm       bifa  ;.aa       2        21         A9                   11        13        13
Rodgetc.ryS..tnV                          342       317       456       495       489      1,567      is         9         30        12TY 
Other Public Sector                       -              -    -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -                    -
Public Sector levea.nat                  522        44.5      593       720       746      1888        7        23         21        10          5         6        10
CtUR8mrT EXfPENDITURE inTILS 7___Act",________DETAIL ON
(A. % Total Carrant Espand.)                        _=~f     JL7A    IUf      L9,6=1      PUBLIC SKCTUR                05 Milliap At 1973 P and K
Ed .. tio                                    18.6   19.3     17.8    17.5    =T: 0         A                                     liRGPW 7  1976     % of Total 1974-76
Other Social ServIce.                         9.1   10.4      9.6     8.8       5.0       Social 5ctOr.                   679      73     84         10.9
Agric.It-r                                    2.4    2.4      2.0      1.8      1.9       Agrieoltor.                    121      187    209         24.6
Other tE.nen     Service.                     3.6    3.5      2.3     2.1       2.0       lnduatry and 910400             41       82     73          9.3
Defcoao                          ~~~~~~~~~~33.9  35.2  41.2 463.0  47.0        Por                             53       44     33         8.6
A"dei. atratio.,                             13.9   13.8     12.1     11.5      9.8       Trcanport cod C~ommncation     138      146    172         22.2
Tr... fer. to locel g-*vero,,.t.             15.1   14.2     14.2     14.6     16.1       2h                             171      197    175         26.4
Qther                                       __      .,_c.   ....L.  -L     0     .7O2     Toatl expenditure              593      728     746       100.0
Totld Co1rret tEpandit.r.e                  100.0  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
SELIECrED INDICATORS                                   1960-    1963-    1970-   1975-         Public Sector Savinga        456      495     489        70.3
Average 1(06~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~~~~96 19             70    197     1980           Doemtic Borrooleg            58        38     41         6.8
A--S. ICOR                              2 7 ~~~~~~ 2.3                         !gia77   FrlAi*bor s,..n      79      195    21 6        22.9
loport Elasticity                                       0.8      2.6      1.1     1.3          Total fioaociog              593      728    746        100.0
M-rg1o1 Ooeastic SavioBa gate                          1t.3     '1.3     16.6    22.01
Marginal National saving, Racte                        l,.9     21.7     18.8    30.0
LABOR FORCE AND5 OUTrPUT                                   Total Emlomit                       Vau    de         okr(93-Pices 6. Ex-, 8.1.I
PER WOBEII Iilan Rf oa                                                             1972-74     In 1I.0.llaee Porcnt'!of7Aoer3        1972-74
1972     1974      1972    197     REMOFALt&       1972     1974    19      1974      r  IhPt
Agriculture                                    5.3      5.6     50.6    48.2      2.8            6034      646     6t,      60        3.4
..nfttri~cd M10100                      1.5      2.1     14.2     17.8    18.3          1,189     1.577   1IW       147       15.1
littr sector                     ____~~~~~~37  9    35.2    34.0     2.7           1.181    1.42     AL       inl        9.2
Total                                         10.6     11.6    100.0    100.0     4.6            916     1,076    100      100         8.6
12 lcloda. gov.r.nx~t  torporet  a-d PrIvate non-erporeco    -ivga..
Include. dotmatlc savIng., not factor i-ctne   fron ar,ood a-d transfers -ro     thbr.od.
47 -ncLde, trad., banking,  -.,.rhip of d.elllnga, p.hl., ,dIItrto             the-srv.
52Reot-e R,,d8.t
721General B.dg.t and E-oonoa      D.v.lopeent SPec-I Accent.
Febrocry 9, 1976



ANNEX I
l a4i .4 of
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in nillions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                                     Proiected                                Groth Rate
1971    1972    1973    1974      1975    197K     1977    1978    1979    1980               _1975-1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                1,478   2,078   3,961   5,157     5,641   7,06i    8,507  10,286  12,344  14,823                    21.4
Inports (incl. NFS)                2.489   2.576  4_367    7.229     7 500   8 324    9.730  11.357  13.190  15.432                    15.5
Resource Balance (X-M)            -1,011    -501    -406  -2,072    -1,859  -1,258   -1,224  -1,071    -845    -609
Interest (net)                      -91    -106    -123    -141       -265    -407     -5Z8    -bIS    -691    -755                    23.3
Other Factor  ic-ns IL)               29      19     26     -49        -24    -196      -40     150     190     175
Workers Re.ittance                    54      47       4      -         -       -        -
Current Transfers (net)              171     170     190     222       210     15Z      200     225     250     275                     5.5
Balance on Current Account          -848    -371   -309  -2.040     -1,938  -1,707   -1,592  -1,309  -1,096    -914
Private Direct Investment (net)       41      74     137     104        42     135      203     220     240     260                    44.0
Offic,al Capital Crants               -       -       -      -           -      -        -       -       -
Poblic M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      639     784     759   1,085     1,491   1,766    1,942   2,043   2,226   2,379                     9.8
-Re_ay,a nts                        250     247     276     360       411     574      711     854     877     902                    17.0
Net Disbursements                    389     537     483     725     1,080   1,192    1,231   1,189   1,349   1,477                     6.4
other M&l.T loans
Disbursements                       33      49      71     168        82     94       124     152     168     181                    17.1
-Repayments                          10      10      15      23        32     39        59      75      96     113                    28.8
Net Disbursements                     23      39     53      145        50    55         65      77      72      68                     6.4
Actual
Capital Transactions, n.e.i.         312     -91      84     306                            1/          1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Change in Net Reserves               -83     188    448     -760      DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE -
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITlMENTS                                              Public Debt Out. & Disbursed    1,786   2,228   2,770   3,3.4   4,031
Official Grants & Grantlike           -       -       -       -         Interest on Public Debt          64      93      104     140     196
1/                                                     Repayments on Public Debt       211     250     247      276     360
Poblic M6LT Loans-                                                      Total Pub.ic Debt Service       275     342     351     415     556
I8RD                                85      73     150     85         Other Debt Service (net)         11      22      23      31      54
IliA                                 7      26     20      -          Total Debt Service (net)        286     364     374     446      610
ADB                                 81      68      46      89
Other Multilateral                  -       -       -       -        Burden on F::port and NFS Earnings (7)
Co-ernments                        305     505     381     418
Suppliers                          242      86     236     441         Public Debt Seryice              22.5    23.1    16.9    10.5    10.8
Financial Institutions              12      8C     205     787         Total Debt Service               23.4    24.6    18.0    11.3    11.8
hous                                -       -       -       19        TDS+Direct Investment Inc.        24.2    25.6    20.0    12.7    13.7
Public Loans, n e.l.                -                       -
Total P-.blic MiLT loans             732     839   1,038   1,840       Average Terr.s of Public Debt
ActLIal Debt Outstanding on Dec.31.74       Interesr asc % Prior Year DO&D    4.3     5.2     4.7     5.1     5.9
E\TERNAL DEBT                     Disbursed Only           Percent        Amort. as % Pi or Year DO&D       14.3    14.0    11.1    10.0    10.9
IBRD                                 223.8                 5.6
TDA                                   78.3                  1.9       I88D Debt O: I D abursed             9.6    40.2    94.7   139.8   223.8
ADB                                  113.0                  2.8            as 7. P i l-c D-Ot 06D          C.6     1.8     3.4     4.2     5.6
Covernments                        1,697.3                 42.1            as % P blic Debt Service        0.3     0.7     1.9     3.0     3.5
Suppliers                          1,250.6                 31.0
Financial Institutions               648.5                 16.1        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed          26.7    39.8    47.1    58.5    78.3
Bonds                                 19.0                 0.5      "    as % Public Debt O0D              1.5     1.8     1.7     1.8     1.9
as 7. Public Debt Service        0.1     0.1     0.1     0.1     n.1
ro,tal Public MAlT Debt            4,030.6                100.0
Other M&LT Debti /                   396.o
Short-term Debt-/                    971.0
1/ SOURCE:   IBRD, loans of maturity one year and above, including commercial bank borrowing
2/ SOLTRCE   Korean authorities
... not available separately bilt ;n -ied in total
February 9, 1976



Annex II
Page 1 of 10 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of May 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                         US$ Million
Credit                                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower             Purpose         Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
Ten loans and credits fully disbursed                   153.8     65.1
600    1969   ADC                   Irrigation          45.0              1.7
151    1969   Republic of Korea     Education                    14.8     0.8
669    1970   Republic of Korea     Railways            40.0              0.6
234    1971   Republic of Korea     Livestock                     7.0     0.1
769    1971   Republic of Korea     Highways            54.5              1.2
795    1972   ADC                   Irrigation          33.0             21.4
863    1972   Republic of Korea     Railways            40.0              2.3
905    1973   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.       40.0              2.3
906 &  1973   Republic of Korea     Education II        23.0     20.0    40.5
394
917    1973   Republic of Korea     Ports               80.0             63.4
941    1973   Republic of Korea     Seeds Production     7.0              6.3
953    1974   Republic of Korea     Tourism             25.0             20.8
956    1974   Republic of Korea     Highways II         47.0              5.9
994    1974   AFDC                  Agriculture         13.0             12.6
1070    1975   Republic of Korea     Secondary Cities    15.0             14.7
1095    1975   KDB                   Dev. Fin. Co.       60.0             37.0
1096    1975   Republic of Korea     Third Education     22.5             22.5
1101    1975    Republic of Korea    Fifth Railway      100.0             74.9
1145    1975   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.       55.0             44.3
1175    1975   MIB                   Dev. Fin. Co.       30.0             29.8
1203    1976    Republic of Korea    Third Highway       90.0             90.0
1216 &  1976    Republic of Korea    Rural Infra-        60.0             60.0
1218-T                                  structure
1219    1976   Republic of Korea     Program Loan II     75.0             75.0
Total                                         1,108.8   106.9   628.1
of which has been repaid                       25.0      .6
Total now outstanding                         1,083.8   106.3
Amount sold                   2.0
of which has been repaid    1.0                 1.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                1,082.8   106.3
(prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                               609.8    18.3   628.1



Annex II
Page 2 of 10 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of May 31, 1976)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor               Type of Business               Loan  Equity   Total
1968   KDFC                  Development Financing            -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.        Textiles                        1.4    0.3     1.7
1970   Atlas Paper           Pulp and paper                  4.5    0.5     5.0/1
1971   Korea Tnvestment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development       -     0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                  Development Financing            -     0.4     0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Develoment        -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products            16.0    1.3    17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development      5.0    0.6     5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers                6.9    2.1     9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.    Tourism                         2.7    0.7     3.4
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development       -     0.4     0.4
1976   Chongju Paper
Mfg. Co.              Paper                           5.0    0.5     5.5
1976   KDFC                  Development Financing          17.8      -    17.8
Total gross commitment                               59.3    8.5    67.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               21.9    0.8    22.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                    37.4    7.7    45.1
Total undisbursed                                    16.7    0.5    17.2
/1 Cancelled at the recuest of the Company.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Loan No. 600      Pyongtaek Kumgang Irrigation Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of May 23, 1969; Effective Date: May 25, 1970;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project includes irrigation for about 31,000 ha, (4,000 ha
less than expected at appraisal), improvement of drainage and roads, con-
solidation of paddy fields, benching of upland and tidal land reclamation.
Construction was delayed by a reorganization of the executing agency and
a delay in hiring consultants. The major project components (two sea
dikes, the main distribution system and pumping plants) were largely com-
pleted by the end of 1974. Contracts for nearly all of the remaining work
have been awarded. Cost considerations have led to the exclusion of about
4,000 ha of land from the project. Costs have risen from US$90 million
at appraisal to about US$130 million largely because of the increased costs
of right-of-way, engineering, administration and land consolidation. Pre-
liminary estimates indicate increases in the price of rice will partially
offset the effects of higher costs and reduced irrigable area. The econo-
mic rate of return is now estimated to be about 10 percent, compared with
the appraisal estimate of 14 percent. The implementing agency (ADC) has
reviewed ways of economizing on the remaining work which should lead to
some marginal cost savings. About 95 percent of the loan has been dis-
bursed. Construction has been virtually completed.
Credit No. 151   First Education Project; US$14.8 Million Credit of
June 4, 1969; Effective Date: May 25, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
The Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commercial and agricultural schools, 5 post-secondary higher
schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b) 26 man-
years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fellowships
to support the development of agricultural and technical education. All
civil works, equipment and furniture procurement, technical assistance
and fellowships included in the Project have been completed. The Credit
is expected to be fully disbursed by the Closing Date. The total project
cost is estimated to remain about 3 percent below the appraisal estimate.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalu-
ation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Fa,t , of 10 pages
Loan No. 669      Third Railway Project; US$40.0 Million Loan, US$15.0
Credit No. 183   Million Credit of May 14, 1970; Effective Date:
September 11, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase
of freight cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track
maintenance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the procurement of some micro-wave equipment which had to be
retendered, and delivery is now expected in October 1976. The Closing
Date has been extended by a year to December 31, 1976 to provide adequate
time for the completion of procurement.
Credit No. 234    Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project; US$7.0
Million Credit of February 11, 1971; Effective Date:
August 24, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The development of about 700 small and medium-sized dairy farms
by providing long-term loans and the construction and operation of two
dairy products processing plants were the principal components of the
Project which also includes the provision of management and technical
services. To date, about 580 farmers have participated and farm loans of
about US$4.5 million equivalent have been approved. About 4,900 head of
cattle have been purchased and two dairy plants have been constructed and
are in operation. The proceeds of the Credit are almost fully disbursed.
Loan No. 769      First Highway Project; US$54.5 Million Loan of June 29,
1971; Effective Date: December 7, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973,
at a final cost of about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasi-
bility studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km
and 900 km of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance
and the establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis
of the creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which
is being carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date
has been extended by 13 months to permit completion of procurement of
highway maintenance equipment, and staff training.
Loan No. 795      Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283    and US$15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
The Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with reliable irrigation and crop diversification.
Also, there will be increased production of high value crops such as fruits
and winter vegetables. Design work is proceeding satisfactorily and the



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
work on four dams will be finished by August 1976; however, three major con-
tracts for construction of canals and land consolidation were awarded only
recently, and completion of all work will take about three more years. The
delay was caused mainly by increased costs due largely to price escalation
and design modification. The cost increases will be partially compensated
for by benefits attributable to the enlargement of the area to be irrigated
by about 1,400 ha; and the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) plans
to reduce costs by constructing only canals, roads and drainage systems for
contour furrow irrigation on all lands exceeding 2 percent slope. Also the
Bank has begun monitoring construction costs on each of the ten civil works
contracts on a monthly basis.
Credit No. 335    Agricultural Credit Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973;
Closing Date: September 1, 1976
The Credit supports a three-year lending program to small farmers
to develop orchards, sericulture and mushroom production and to encourage
the breeding of poultry and swine. It also finances an organizational and
accounting study of the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
and the strengthening of its training facilities. The Project is progressing
satisfactorily and was completed ahead of the Closing Date. The Credit has
been fully disbursed.
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to the
northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling
stock. No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan pro-
ceeds have been committed, and nearly 95 percent already disbursed.
Loan No. 905      Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date: September 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; US$23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to the buildings
of 18 technical and 14 agricultural high schools; ten higher schools/junior
colleges for industrial, agricultural, fishery and nursing training; colleges



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
of agriculture, engineering and natural sciences in nine universities and
a merchant marine college; and ten junior teacher colleges and 12 colleges
of education. It also includes pre-investment studies on health and
management education. Implementation has improved significantly in the
last year. All equipment lists have been prepared and reviewed. Progress
on civil works is satisfactory and ahead of schedule. Equipment procurement
is somewhat behind schedule, but has improved significantly in the last
semester. A staff development plan has been approved. Total project cost
is estimated at US$75.8 million, about 8 percent above appraisal estimates.
Covenant requirements under the Development Credit Agreement are being met.
Project completion is expected to be on schedule.
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; US$80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment at
Busan and Mukho. The Project is progressing satisfactorily. Preparation
of contract documents for all nine civil works contracts has been completed
and five have been awarded. Two of the five equipment contracts have also
been awarded. Three of the civil works contracts are on schedule while two
are slightly behind schedule; all are expected to be completed on time.
The Government signed a Loan Agreement, on March 8, 1976, with the Saudi
Fund for Development, which will provide US$35 million equivalent for this
Project.
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December
31, 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed pro-
duction; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irriga-
tion and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary
legislative and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and
establishing an "Office for Seed Production and Distribution" has been
taken. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Preliminary
estimates suggest that Project costs would be somewhat higher than
envisaged at appraisal; the estimates are being revised. Disbursement
has been somewhat slower than expected at appraisal but is expected
to improve soon.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
Loan No. 953     Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project forms part of the first phase of the planned
development of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a
multi-purpose dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement
and expansion of the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal
systems for the city of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of
electrical supply and telecommunication facilities for the resort area;
the construction and/or realignment of about 57 kms of roads, infra-
structure including storm water drainage, environmental sanitation,
community facilities, and a golf course; a school for training hotel
personnel; and a feasibility study for the development of tourism on
Cheju Island. Final design for almost all Project components is complete
and several contracts have been awarded. Considerable efforts are being
made by the newly established Kyongju Tourism Agency to promote hotel
investors interest in the resort area. Disbursement is over 15 percent
of the total loan and is expected to accelerate in the months ahead.
Loan No. 956      Second Highway Project; US$47.0 Million Loan of January
25, 1974; Effective Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction (chiefly
on new alignments) of about 130 kms and paving (largely on existing align-
ments) of approximately 635 kms of national highways, feasibility studies
by consultants of about 1,000 kms of national and provincial roads, followed
by detailed engineering where justified; and the procurement of highway
maintenance and workshop equipment for the extension of a new highway
maintenance program from a pilot province to the remainder of the country.
All construction and paving was satisfactorily completed by December 1975.
Procurement of equipment is in progress and expected to be completed
shortly. Feasibility studies started in August 1975 and are scheduled to
be completed in August 1976, to be followed by detailed engineering. The
total cost of the project is expected to exceed the appraisal estimates by
less than 10 percent. Disbursement is over 80 percent of the total loan.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of commer-
cial crops for export with efficient hygienic processing facilities using
land that is presently idle or under-utilized. It comprises: (i) on-farm
development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (ii) construction
of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak mushrooms,
mushrooms and fruits, and (iii) technical assistance including training of
staff, services of consultants etc.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
As the current investor demand for the project processing facili-
ties is less than projected, implementation of the Project as a whole is
likely to be delayed.
Loan No. 1070     Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an
organizational framework for regional investment, planning and develop-
ment and the improvement of working and living conditions in the secondary
cities of the less developed Gwangju region. The main elements of the
Project are: (i) housieg sites and services in the cities of Yeosu, Mogpo
and Gwangju (370,384 m ); iii) a fishery harbor complex with industrial
processing zon2 (215,385 m ) in Yeosu; (iii) a city market in Suncheon
City (33,160 m ); and (iv) access roads in Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km). It
also provides technical assistance to strengthen regional planning and
development, to improve the utilization of existing water supply systems in
the four cities, to assist the management and operation of the fishery com-
plex and to carry out feasibility studies of project proposals identified
under the UNDP-financed Phase II Regional Study. Project implementation is
roughly a year behind the appraisal schedule largely because of delays in
establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit. However, progress has
been improving and is considered satisfactory.
Loan No. 1095     Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 Million Loan of
of March 31, 1975; Effective Date: June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project provides funds to KDB which will be used to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial sub-projects during the period
mid-1975 to mid-1977. Disbursement is already about 40 percent of the total
Loan.
Loan No. 1096     Third Education Project; US$22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The principal aims of the Project are to assist in supplying
needed skills and to establish a framework for evaluating performance and
improving the educational system. The Project consists of: (a) construc-
tion and equipment of a new technical high school; (b) equipment and exten-
sion of buildings for three agricultural junior colleges; (c) equipment and
enlargement of buildings for a fisheries college, three fisheries high
schools, and equipment for one merchant marine junior college; (d) con-
struction and equipment of seven new vocational training institutes; and



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
(e) financing of engineering and technical services required for the
preparation of future education projects. Execution of the project imple-
mentation is expected to be on schedule. Site layouts and sketch plans for
all Ministry of Education (MOE) project schools have been approved. Most
sites have been acquired. A consultant architect for Office of Labor Affairs
(OLA) project items is being appointed and sketch plans are presently being
reviewed. Progress in equipment procurement is satisfactory. No cost
overrun is anticipated at this time. Disbursement is expected to start on
schedule. Both MOE and OLA project units are functioning satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1101     Fifth Railway Project; US$100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The Project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and its financial
recovery. The main components of the Project are: an increase in station
and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisition of rolling
stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair facilities;
track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion of electri-
fication of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous items. Con-
tracts, financed by the Loan, have been signed for procurement of passenger
and freight cars, wheel sets, rail, bridge girders and spares for coaches
and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about US$57.6 million equiv-
alent. Electrification of industrial lines and the Seoul Suburban system has
been virtually completed. A quarter of the loan proceeds has been disbursed.
Loan No. 1145     Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Loan will cover about half the KDFC's foreign exchange require-
ments through the end of 1977. It will be used to finance direct imports
of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods and of civil works. Disbursements are proceeding on
schedule.
Loan No. 1175     Medium Industry Bank (MIB); US$30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The Project provides funds to MIB to make sub-loans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over the next two years. The
Project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1193     Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;- /US$15.0 Million
Loan of June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450 new
dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of the
First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the expan-
sion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their production,
the establishment of two milk centers and fifty small milk cooling units and
the construction of a frozen milk products plant at Yeongnam; (d) and the
expansion of technical services for both farm development and milk processing.
Loan No. 1203     Third Highway Project; US$90.0 Million Loan of February 3,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The Loan provides funds to help finance: (i) the construction,
chiefly on new alignment, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (ii) paving and
improvement chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways total-
ling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and
(iii) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and
provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. Bids have been
called for all construction and paving contracts.
Loan No. 1216     Rural Infrastructure Project; US$60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T    US$40.0 Million Third Window; Effective Date: June 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project consists of: (a) the construction of 66 minor
irrigation sub-projects which will provide irrigation facilities for tracts
of land ranging from 50 to 700 ha in size; (b) upland reclamation of
roughly 4,500 ha involving some 35 projects; (c) the development of about
11,000 blocks of fuelwood plantations over an area of approximately 127,000
ha; (d) the construction of a total of 850 km of village roads and 200
bridges; (e) the construction of simple water supp].y systems for some 2,000
villages; (f) the electrification of about 300,000 rural households through
a program involving some 2,700 sub-projects; and (g) the improvement of
hydrological services. Project implementation has commenced and a recent
review mission reports that progess is very satisfactory.
Loan No. 1219     Second Program Loan; US$75.0 Million Loan of
March 3, 1976; Effective Date: June 9, 1976;
Closing Date: May 1, 1977
The principal aim of the Loan is to help meet the foreign exchange
requirements for the import into the Republic of Korea, by the private sector,
of essential capital and intermediate goods.
1/ Loan signed on June 4, 1976; not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
KOREA
MIHO AREA WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Republic of Korea
Amount:                  $29.0 million equivalentf
Terms:                   22 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 8.9 percent per annum
Project Description:     The proposed project would increase agricultural
production and farm incomes on about 12,665 ha
and would benefit directly some 10,400 farm
families. The main components of the proposed
project are:
(a) construction of dams and canals to irrigate
8,315 ha;
(b) conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland
to irrigate paddy fields in areas commanded
by the above canals;
(c) land consolidation, including construction
of ditches, drains and farm roads together
with land levelling and boundary realign-
ment on 4,600 ha (3,150 ha on presently
irrigated land and 1,450 ha in areas to be
irrigated by the project);
(d) development of 495 ha for irrigation of
upland crops, and 550 ha for orchards
within the area to be irrigated;
(e) upland reclamation, primarily bench-
terracing of 1,200 ha of presently unculti-
vated land;
(f) improvement of about 80 km of river channels
to increase their flood discharge capacity;
(g) construction of about 150 km of village
access roads;
(h) aerial photography, surveys, and mapping
for the design of project works; and



ANNEX III
Pinge 2 of 3 pages
(i) provision of technical assistance, procure-
ment of vehicles, and a feasibility study for
a second-stage project in the Miho Watershed.
Estimated Cost:
For-                 For-          Foreign   % of
Local  eign   Total  Local   eign  Total  Exchange Base Cost
-----(Won B)------   -----(US$ M)------      ()       (%)
Dams and Canals          5.2    4.3    9.5   10.8    8.8   19.6      45       45
Land Development         2.8    2.3    5.1    5.9    4.6   10.5      45       24
Channel Improvement      0.4    0.3    0.7    0.8    0.6    1.4      45        3
Village Access Roads     0.4    0.3    0.7    0.8    0.7    1.5       45       4
Mapping, Consultants
& Vehicles             0.1    0.4    0.5    0.2    0.8    1.0      80        2
Feasibility Studies      0.3    0.2    0.5    0.5    0.5    1.0      50        2
Right-of-Way             2.3      0    2.3    4.8      0    4.8        0      11
Engineering & Admin.     1.6   0.3     1.9    3.3    0.6    3.9      15        9
Base Cost Estimate      13.1    8.1   21.2   27.1   16.6   43.7       38     100
Physical
Contingencies          1.4    0.9    2.3    2.9    1.8    4.7      38       11
Expected Price
Increases              7.8   5.1    12.9   16.0   10.6   26.6      40       61
Total Project Cost      22.3   14.1   36.4   46.0   29.0   75.0       39     172
Financing Plan:          The proposed Bank loan of $29.0 million would finance
the full foreign exchange requirement of the project.
Local expenditures, representing the estimated balance
of project costs, would be met through annual Govern-
ment budgetary allocations to ADC.
Estimated
Disbursement:                                  in $'000 equivalent
Bank Fiscal Year       Annual     Cumulative
1977               100          100
1978             1,100        1,200
1979             5,800        7,000
1980             9,000       16,000
1981             7,600       23,600
1982             5,400       29,000



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
Procurement:        Contracts for civil works construction and for the supply
of cement and reinforcing steel would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. These materials would be
procured in bulk on behalf of ADC by the Office of Supply,
Republic of Korea. Civil works would be packaged together
by areas to form about five contracts with an average value
of about $6 million. Aerial photography and mapping
services ($0.5 million) and vehicles ($80,000) would be
procured through normal government procurement procedures.
Consultants:        The Agricultural Development Corporation will employ con-
sultants on periodic short-term assignments to assist the
Office of Watershed Development in the final designs of the
dams and the canals.
Rate of Return:     The project's overall economic rate of return is 15 percent.
Appraisal Report:   No. 1130a-KO, dated July 8, 1976.






IBRD 12022
KOREA                           FEBRUARY 1976
330   3  EAST Chu nSEA 36MIHO                  WATERSHED          AREA     DEVELOPMENT           PROJECT
IRRIGATED AREA(EXISTINGI
Inchcon 4PROPOSED IRRIGATION AREA
PRA v T                                                          i   '  UPLAND RECLAMATIONS
-ou:5. EXISTING DAM
NEW DAYS
YEL, GW7 T v5/ kZaeleon v   |                                                *        PROPOSED IRRIGATION CANALS
SSA                                             TO CHASGHOWEON
X fiJ@onl  t   36 SR                                                      TOWNS
330                                                            _______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N-ROADS
TO ANSEOG                                   *-/---.-,-, RAILWAYS
Diu  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~IRIVERS AND RESERVOIRS
bOOR  AN9 ANG                               ----SUB WATERSHED BOUNDARIES
mogpo                           G UN            J-W                              WER   TERSBO BUNDARY
$  ~~~~~~iCOUNTY(GUN) BOUNDARIES
340~~~~~~~~~~~.
'4 27            20  3                          i 
Th, bo-ndomp- ohu-  - 18, mp do J73
-pl, e.donemenl or accepw,-ce by h,                                                KUMWANG a
World BonEa 772,, offdiho1e w  wro
Vu,d
-                                        TO CHUNGJG
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o     2      4     E     8     10 I N b      &
kILOMETERS8 
MILES                                                                                       6AES/
rO CHEONGJU ~ ~ ~ ~
0  2  4  6  8  1 a                                                              rO BOEBJUSA~~~



