Report No. 1130a-KO                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the Miho Watershed
Area Development Project Korea
July 8, 1976
East Asia & Pacific Projects
Irrigation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed witho-t World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =    Won 485
Won 1,000       =    US$2.06
US$1 million          Won 0.485 billion
Won 1 million   =    US$2,062
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                      =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                   =  2.47 acres
1 million cubic meters (Mm3    =  810 acre-feet
3
1 cubic meter per second (m Is) =  35.3 ft Is (cusec)
I ton                            =  1,000 kilogram (kg)
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC    -   Agricultural Development Corporation
FLIA   -   Farm Land Improvement Association
MAF    -   Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NACF   -   National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation
ORD    -   Office of Rural Development
OSROK  -   Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea
OWD    -   Office of Watershed Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSION  .................................    i-ii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ...........................................                                     1
II.      BACKGROUND  .............................................                                    1
The  Agriculture  Sector  ........................... .                               1
Rural Incomes and Employment ...............                                          2
Project Formulation  .............................. .                                3
III.      THE  PROJECT  AREA  .......................................                                   5
Location  ..........................................                                  5
Climate  ...........................................                                 5
Water  Supply  and  Demand  ...........................                               5
Land  Use  and  Soils  ................................                               6
Population,  Land  Tenure  and  Farm  Size  ....                     .........        6
Agriculture ..................................                                        7
Existing  Infrastructure  ...........................                                8
IV.      THE  PROJECT  ............................................                                   9
Project Components ................................                                   9
Dams  and  Canals  ...............              ..      ..................          10
Land  Development                     ..................................            11
Channel  Improvement  .............                ..       ................        12
Village  Access  Roads  .............               ..       ...............        13
Feasibility  Study  for  Stage  II  ....................                            13
Surveys  &  Mapping    .............             ..       .................         13
Status  of  Designs  ...............             ..       .................         14
Implementation  Schedule  ...........                 ..      ..............        14
Cost  Estimates  ....... ...........                    ..................          14
Financing            ....................          .....................            15
Procurement  ........ ...........                    ....................           15
Disbursements               ..................         ...................          16
Accounts  and  Audits  .............               ..       ................        16
Environmental  Effects  ............                ..       ...............        16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................    17
Agricultural Development Corporation ..............    17
Project Implementation ..o..... . .  ......... ........    17
Agricultural Supporting Services ............ . ....     18
Operation and Maintenance ........................       19
Cost Recovery ****...**.............  .............      20
VI.   PRODUCTION, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ....................      21
Production ......*.-...*....**.**.......*.*.*....        21
Prices   .....**t**............ *........... 0...........  21
Farm   Incomes   ......................................................  22
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS ...............  .....     23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ................       24
ANNEXES
1.   Climatological Data
2.   Project Works
3.   Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.   Cost Estimates
5.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
6.   Supporting Agricultural Services
7.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
8.   Crop and Farm Budgets
9.   Cost and Benefit Recovery
10.   Economic Analysis
11.   Schedule of Critical Events
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 15823
Proposed Cropping Calendar No. 15824
ADC Organization Structure No. 15825
MAP
Miho Watershed Area Development Project No. 12022



KOREA
APPRAISAL OF THE
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank assistance
in financing the Miho Watershed Area Development Project. The project would
provide irrigation and land development for some 12,700 ha and would directly
benefit some 10,400 farm families or approximately 63,000 people. Dams and
canals would be constructed to serve 8,300 ha where crop production is present-
ly dependent on rainfall. Land development within the area to be irrigated
would include conversion of uplands to paddy cultivation, land consolidation,
and development of uplands for irrigated orchards and crops. Elsewhere
in the project area, land consolidation would be carried out on about 3,200
ha, and 1,200 ha of uncultivated upland would be reclaimed for crop production.
The project would also include construction of 150 km of gravel roads to
improve access to the project area, and improvement of 80 km of river chan-
nels to reduce damage to cultivated lands during floods. Other components of
the project are: surveys and mapping needed for design of project features;
technical assistance; procurement of vehicles and equipment; and preparation
of a feasibility study for a second-stage project in the Miho watershed.
ii.       Major objectives of the Government in the agricultural sector are
to achieve self-sufficiency in rice and barley, and to raise the incomes and
living standards of the farming population. The proposed project is aimed
at helping the Government to achieve these goals. Other Bank Group invest-
ments in the agricultural sector include: the Pyongtaek-Kumgang (Loan 600-
KO) and Yong San Gang (Loan 795/Credit 283-KO) Irrigation Projects, which
cover 30,000 ha and 33,000 ha, respectively, on the West Coast; a Seed Proj-
ect (Loan 942-KO) to expand seed production for most of the major food crops;
a Dairy Development Project (Credit 234-KO); an Agricultural Credit Project
(Credit 335-KO) and an Agricultural Processing Project (Loan 994-KO).
iii.      Total cost of the project is estimated at US$75 million (Won 46
billion, including provision for price increases of US$26.6 million, or 35% of
the total cost. The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of US$29 million, or 39% of the project cost. Contracts for con-
struction of all civil works (US$33 million excluding expected price increases)
and supply of construction materials (US$4.5 million) would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines
for procurement. Mapping services and vehicles (US$1.1 million) would be
procured through normal government procedures.
iv.       The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a semi-autonomous
agency operating under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), would
be responsible for project implementation. Within ADC, responsibility for
execution of the project would rest with the Office of Watershed Development
which carried out the project feasibility study.



- ii -
v.        The project would increase production of rice by 19,500 tons, and
barley by 12,500 tons. Farm income on a 0.5 ha farms benefitting from the
project would increase from US$730 to US$1,100 at full development in 1986.
For 1.5 ha and 2.5 ha farms the respective increases in incomes would be
US$1,550 to US$2,950 and US$2,410 to US$4,560. About one-half of the farm-
ers in the project area own 1 ha or less, one-third between 1 and 2 ha, and
about two-tenths more than 2 ha. The economic rate of return for the project
is estimated to be 15%. The rate of return is only moderately sensitive to
increases in costs and delays in benefits.
vi.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$29.0 million
for a period of 22 years including a five-year grace period to the Agricultural
Development Corporation with the guarantee of the Republic of Korea.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank assistance
in financing the Miho Watershed Area Development Project in the central region
of Korea. This would be the first Bank loan for an area development project in
Korea.
1.02      The proposed project, providing irrigation and land development on
12,700 ha, is the first stage of a plan for development of the land and
water resources in the Miho watershed (drainage basin). The Agricultural
Development Corporation in its preparation of the project drew on the experi-
ence gained in two UNDP-assisted pilot watershed development projects. Prep-
aration of the project was financed in part through the Seeds Project (Loan
942-KO), and UNDP made available the services of experts formerly employed on
the pilot watershed projects.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which
visited Korea in November 1975, comprising Messrs. W.T. Smith, R. Baskett,
C. Goldfinger (Bank), and L. Shanan and G. Austin (consultants).
Mr. M.G. Saddington assisted in preparing the report.
II. BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
2.01     Agriculture provides 25% of the GNP and 50% of the total employment.
The rural population, consisting of almost 2.4 million households, accounts
for 40% of the total population.
2.02      About 23%, or 2.3 million ha, of Korea's total land area is culti-
vated. Lowlands used primarily for rice production occupy just over 1.3 mil-
lion ha and cultivated uplands account for nearly 1.0 million ha. Annual
rice production in years of favorable rainfall is on the order of 4.2 million
tons. Production of winter cereals, chiefly barley, generally approaches 2.0
million tons annually on a cropped area of some 1.0 million ha; about 45% of
the winter cereals are grown on the lowlands after the rice harvest and the
remainder as a winter crop on the uplands. Soybeans occupy the largest area
of the summer crops grown on the uplands; annual production is about 300,000
tons on about 30% of the uplands. Other important upland crops are fruits,
vegetables, tobacco and ginseng.
2.03      Annual food grain production has grown little over the past decade.
A steady rise in rice production has been offset by declines in barley and
wheat production due to conversion of uplands to paddy. Population growth



-2-
coupled with rising per capita consumption has caused annual grain imports to
grow from 700,000 tons in the early 1960's to an average of 3 million tons in
the period 1971-75. In 1975, food grain imports cost US$724 million. Wheat
and corn account for nearly two-thirds of the tonnage of imported food grains.
2.04      The Government places high priority on expanding food grain pro-
duction to achieve self-sufficiency to the extent possible. While it is
realized that overall self-sufficiency will not be possible, efforts are
being made to expand production of rice, barley and soybeans to meet domestic
requirements. This will have to be achieved mainly through higher yields on
presently cultivated land since future expansion is limited to about 200,000
ha of marginal upland soils, and tidelands that can be economically reclaimed.
Rice yields are already high (ranging between 3 and 4 tons of polished rice per
ha) 1/ but are still substantially below yields achieved in a similar environment
in Japan. Yield increases are therefore possible through irrigation coupled
with wider use of high yielding varieties. Areas devoted to winter cereals
on the ricelands can also be increased where the construction of improved
irrigation and drainage works allows more timely planting and harvesting of
the rice crop. On the uplands, some increase in barley production should be
possible through wider use of higher yielding and early maturing varieties.
Some increase in wheat production in the uplands is possible, but it would
be insignificant in relation to domestic requirements. Yields of other up-
land crops could also be increased through use of new varieties and by lime
application, which would increase the response to fertilizer.
2.05      Investments in agriculture during the Third Five-Year Plan (1972-
76) are expected to exceed Won 807 billion compared with Won 260 billion in
the Second Plan and Won 130 billion in the First Plan. Emphasis is being
placed on increasing the productivity of existing cultivated land through
irrigation, drainage and flood control, and by increasing the area under
high-yielding varieties of rice and other crops.
2.06      The average farm size in Korea is about 0.9 ha, of which 0.5 ha is
paddy land, while the remainder grows upland crops, such as barley, maize,
soybeans, fruit, vegetables, tobacco, mulberries (for silkworm production)
and other cash crops. Nearly two-thirds of farm households have less than
1 ha of cropland but only 4% of farm households are landless. Most farmers
own the land they cultivate, 70% being full owners and a further 23% renting
some land in addition to their own. This equitable distribution of land owner-
ship is the result of the Farmland Reform Laws of 1945 and 1950, which lJ.Iposed
a ceiling of 3 ha on cultivated land per household.
Rural Incomes and Employment
2.07      Higher prices for farm produce in recent years have brou,-l   ural
household incomes almost on a level with those in urban areas. Coverscme:,;
price programs have raised prices of farm products relative t:   > s paid
1/   Rice yields on the farm are quoted in ton of polished -Ie(-/ha
assuming a 68% milling yield.  Similarly, on-farm !-. 'ey yields
are in ton of polished barely/ha at a 65% milling   eld.



-3-
by farmers for inputs and consumption items and this has been a major factor
underlying the increase in per capita incomes in the rural areas.  However,
since the number of workers in an average rural household is larger than in an
average urban household (as women and children work in the crop planting and
harvesting operations), the income of an individual rural worker still remains
much lower than that of an urban worker.
2.08      Rapid growth of employment in services and industries over the past
decade has led to a decline in the farm population classified as economically
active. Although this trend appears to have been temporarily reversed by a
slow-down in industrial growth, employment in the agricultural sector can,
in the long-term, be expected to continue to decline in absolute numbers.
Reduction in the number of people dependent upon Korea's limited land re-
sources for a livelihood will help make farm mechanization profitable and
contribute to increased labor productivity in agriculture.
Project Formulation
2.09      The concept of comprehensive development of selected areas was
introduced to Korea by two UNDP-assisted projects for which FAO was the
executing agency; ROK7 (1962-67) dealt mainly with upland reclamation, and
ROK67/ 522 (1967-73) had the broader objective of comprehensive development
of selected watersheds (in this context a watershed is the drainage basin
of a river). UNDP/FAO specialists and government counterpart staff evolved
procedures for resource inventories and project formulation and, in addi-
tion, implemented several small watershed projects.
2.10      The Bank's interest in area development stems from the 1973 Agri-
cultural Sector Survey, which recommended that "an area and regional devel-
opment approach be adopted in planning and carrying out projects to raise
agricultural productivity and raise rural incomes," and suggested watershed
development projects as possibilities for external financing.
2.11      As a follow-up to these recommendations, the Office of Watershed
Development (OWD) in the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) carried
out the feasibility study 1/, which forms the basis of the present project.
Most of OWD's staff are former members of the counterpart team for the UNDP/
FAO project, and were assisted in the study by visits from the former UNDP
Project Manager and an economist. The Bank included partial financing for
the study under the Seeds Project (Loan 942-KO). Development of the
Naeseong watershed area has been deferred because of budgetary considerations.
2.12      The appraisal of this project has provided an opportunity to assess
the comprehensive approach to area development in the context of detailed
project proposals and has confirmed the value of detailed resource invento-
ries as a basis for area development plans. Such inventories have particular
relevance to Korea where, except for the coastal plains, the land is broken
1/   "Comprehensive Development of the Naeseong and Miho Watersheds," April
1975.



-4-
up into many dlfferent types of land use and land capability. Thus, within
a watershed or any other selected area, development planning has to take into
account many small blocks of land and numerous small rivers and streams.
2.13      The project proposed in the feasibility report included numerous
components (dams and canals, land consolidation, upland development, channel
improvements, roads, rural electrification, village water supply, livestock,
and fuelwood plantations). While ADC would have been responsible for the
irrigation and land development works, implementation of the remaining com-
ponents would have involved other agencies such as the Korea Electric Company,
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, Office of Forestry. Thus, special
arrangements for inter-agency coordination would have been needed to imple-
ment a comprehensive project containing such a wide range of components in
a limited geographical area. The benefits of irrigation and land develop-
ment could, however, be realized without a parallel program to provide such
amenities as electricity and piped water supplies. The Government has there-
fore concluded that the limited benefits of a comprehensive project would
not warrant the establishment of a special coordinating body. Consequently,
the rural electrification, village water supply and, fuelwood plantation
components have been excluded from the project but would be implemented in
accordance with nation-wide programs and priorities. Such programs are being
carried out as part of the Saemaeul (New Community) Movement, which is aimed
at improving standards of living in the rural areas. Financial assistance
for these programs is being provided by the Bank under the Rural Infrastruc-
ture Project (Loan 1216-KO, 1218-T-KO). The livestock component was excluded
as its economic rate of return was below 10%.
2.14      The exclusion of the above components does not, however, change the
basic concept of the project which is to implement an integrated package of
irrigation and land improvement works in a specific area. Past investments
in irrigation have been largely concentrated on large-scale developments in-
volving major dams and canal systems in the coastal plains. In line with its
rural development policies, the Government is now placing more emphasis on
land and water development in the interior regions of Korea. Two approaches
are being followed. One is a nationwide program of minor irrigation projects
and upland reclamation as part of the Saemaeul Movement. The second approach,
typified by the proposed project, is area specific and involves the execution
of larger and more complex project components than would be appropriate for
implementation under the Saemaeul Movement. The Miho watershed was selected
as being broadly typical of the interior regions of Korea in terms of topog-
raphy, present land use, and potential for further development. The three
approaches -- large-scale projects, area development, and minor irrigation --
all have a place in the Government's strategy for increasing agricultural pro-
duction and farm incomes.



- 5 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
3.01      The gross project area covers about 77,000 ha in the northern half
of the Miho river basin and is located about 90 km southeast of Seoul. It
encompasses parts of three counties in Chungcheong Bug province. Jincheon,
the largest town in the project area with a population of 20,000, is the
chief commercial and marketing center. It is connected to the provincial
capital of Cheongju, 30 km to the south, by an all-weather road. Cheongju
itself lies 15 km east of the Seoul-Busan expressway. The topography of
the area with its intricate pattern of hills and valleys is typical of the
central region of Korea. Over one-half of the land is too steep for culti-
vation. Most of the suitable uplands and all of the lowland areas in the
valleys are cultivated.
Climate
3.02      Korea lies in the path of warm, moist southeasterly air currents
from the sea in the summer, and a northwesterly flow of cold, dry air from
the Asian land mass in the winter. The summer extends from May through
September with temperatures of up to 300C and relative humidity reaching
80% in July and August. December and January are the coldest months with
temperatures often below freezing. The project area has 180-190 frost-free
days. Annual precipitation averages about 1,100 mm with two-thirds occur-
ring during the rainy season (May through September). Even in the summer,
rainfall is unreliable, especially during the critical rice transplanting
period (June). In addition, droughts occur sometimes in August and September.
Irrigation is therefore required to obtain optimum yields from high-yielding
varieties of rice. Annex 1 presents climatological data.
Water Supply and Demand
3.03      Streamflow records in the project area are limited to short periods
on some of the larger rivers. Consequently, estimates of runoff have been
based on data from other areas in Korea with similar topography and rainfall.
A high proportion (nearly 50%) of rainfall on upland catchments appears as
runoff because of the steep slopes in the catchments and because most of the
rainfall occurs in short, intense storms. Average annual runoff in the drain-
age basin of the proposed reservoirs is estimated at about 6,000 m3/ha. The
annual irrigation requirement for paddy would be about 7,000 m3/ha in an
average year and around 8,200 m3/ha in a drought year. Reservoir storage
capacities range from 30 to 50% of the mean annual runoff and would provide
sufficient regulation to meet irrigation requirements except in abnormally
dry years. Sediment runoff is quite low (in the range of 400-800 ton/km2
year) and it would take many years for any significant depletion of the
active storage of the reservoirs. There are no water quality data available



-6-
for rivers in the project but, since irrigation has been carried on for many
years without any adverse effects, it can be safely assumed that water quality
is suitable for sustained irrigation. Further details on water supply, demand
and quality are presented in Annex 3.
Land Use and Soils
3.04      Present land use in the project area is as follows:
Area
(ha)           (%)
Forest                                42,500          55
Cultivated Lowland                    15,200          20
Cultivated Upland                     13,600          18
Eroded Land                            1,100            1
Other /a                               4,600            6
77,000         100
/a   Includes towns, villages, roads, lakes and
rivers.
3.05      About 80% of the forest land is considered as well-stocked (a gener-
ally complete cover of mature trees), and 20% consists of brush, small trees
and native grass. Eroded lands are usually found at higher elevations on
steep slopes with shallow soils. The potential for opening up new land for
cultivation is limited to about 1,900 ha. The cultivated lowlands consist
almost entirely of rice paddies. The cultivated uplands are in the form of
terraces on sloping lands extending upwards from the edge of the paddies.
3.06      Upland soils are derived from the granite rocks occurring through-
out the project area and are highly acid, with low cation exchange capacity,
low organic content and low natural fertility. The alluvial soils of the low-
lands have similar characteristics to the upland but have a higher percentage
of fine-grained sediments, which inhibit internal drainage. The slow drainage
of the lowland soils tends to delay planting of winter cereals following the
summer rice crop.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.07      The project area population is 165,000 people of whom 25,000
are classified as urban and 140,000 as rural. Some 10,400 farm families
(63,000 persons) would benefit directly from irrigation and land development
works to be constructed under the project. A further 60,000 people would
benefit from the village access roads and channel improvement components.
Nearly all farmers hold full title to the land they cultivate. The average
farm unit is 1.2 ha, with approximately 50% of farms 1 ha or less. The farm
size distribution in areas benefitting from the project is as follows:



-7-
Farm Size                  Farm Holdings                   Cultivated Area
(ha)                   (No)           (%)                (ha)         (%)
Less than 0.5               2,390           23                  515          4
0.5 - 1.0                2,700           26                 2,150         17
1.0 - 1.5                2,390           23                3,040         24
1.5 - 2.0                1,250           12                2,150         17
More than 2.0               1,670           16                4,810         38
Total                10,400          100                12,665       100
Agriculture
3.08      Rice occupies virtually all of the 15,200 ha of lowland in the
summer and barley is planted on about 10% of the area in the winter. On
the 13,600 ha of uplands, a variety of vegetables, soybeans and tobacco are
grown in the summer, followed by barley on about 40% of the area in the
winter.
3.09      About 5,700 ha of lowlands are presently irrigated from existing
dams and weirs. Rice cultivation on the remaining lowlands is largely
dependent on rainfall--both direct rainfall on the paddy fields and the
diversion of runoff from the surrounding hillsides. Skillful water manage-
ment by the farmers tends to compensate for an erratic rainfall pattern and
explains the fairly high yields obtained under "rainfed" conditions. Never-
theless, lack of water in the right amount and at the right time is the most
serious physical constraint on rice production outside of the areas presently
irrigated. Crop cultivation on the upland areas is entirely dependent on
rainfall. Upland crops are less sensitive to drought than rice, but yields
and production can be significantly reduced by prolonged droughts, which
cause wide swings in annual production and prices.
3.10      In 1972, a new short, stiff strawed and nitrogen responsive rice
variety was released to farmers. Known in Korea as "Tongil," it has been
well accepted by farmers and accounts for about 20% of the rice grown in the
project area, but most of it is concentrated on irrigated lands or on lower
terraces with a good water supply. Four new varieties of improved rice were
released in 1975; one of them, an earlier maturing Tongil, should do well in
the project area, whereas the others are probably better suited to the south-
ern part of the country. Yields of 5 ton/ha (polished rice) for Tongil have
already been reached on irrigated land in the project area. Average yields
of traditional varieties, which are less demanding in terms of water supply
and drainage but have lower yield potentials, are about 2.7 ton/ha under
rainfed conditions and 3.1 ton/ha with irrigation.



- 8 -
3.11      Barley is grown as a winter crop on both the ricelands and the
uplands. The crop does not tolerate excessive soil moisture and on the low-
lands it is only grown on well-drained fields. On uplands, drainage is less
of a problem, but the planted area is limited because planting and harvesting
conflicts with the more profitable summer crops. For the project area as a
whole, about 25% of the cultivated land is planted to barley. Present yields
range from 1.8 to 2.4 ton/ha with an average of about 2 ton/ha. New varie-
ties with high yield potentials were recently introduced and, with good
drainage, yields of 3 ton/ha are possible.
3.12      Soybeans follow rice and barley in terms of cropped area.  Yields
are low, ranging from 0.8 to 1.1 ton/ha but could be increased through higher
lime applications to correct soil acidity. The more popular vegetables grown
on the uplands include peppers, chinese cabbage, and potatoes. Yields are
high enough to produce good returns for the farmers, but much higher yields
could be obtained with irrigation and improved varieties. There are many
small (0.1-0.3 ha) apple and pear orchards in the project area. Under rainfed
conditions yields are high enough for orchards to be profitable, but drought
damage is not uncommon and irrigation would make consistently higher yields
possible.
3.13      Most farmers own approximately equal areas of lowland and upland.
Farming is highly labor intensive and most land preparation is by draft bul-
locks. In recent years, however, there has been a steady increase in the
number of powered implements such as tillers, sprayers and threshers. Fer-
tilizers and pesticides are used on nearly all crops with fairly high appli-
cation rates on rice, barley and the higher value upland crops. Herbicides
are used little at present, although they are becoming more widely accepted
to alleviate labor shortages.
3.14      Despite the relatively high yields and intensive land use in the
project area there is a considerable potential for further increases in agri-
cultural production through irrigation and land development. Rice farmers
throughout Korea have shown their ability to take full advantage of irriga-
tion and drainage facilities. The provision of a timely and reliable water
supply would increase rice yields and also have the effect of reducing peak
labor demands since crop calendars would no longer be governed by rainfall.
Better timing of the rice crop would also lead to an increase in the area
planted to barley. In irrigated areas, land consolidation would have a num-
ber of advantages: higher yields through better water control; lower labor
requirements as a result of easier access and conditions more suited to
mechanical land preparation; and an increased area under barley due to bet-
] arainage.  Conversion of uplands to paddy cultivation is also possible
in areas which can be supplied with irrigation water.  Finally, there is the
possibility of converting forest lands to crop production and orchards.
Existing Infrastructure
3.15      About 3,900 ha of ricelands are irrigated by numerous small dams
mqd we[.rs. Many of the small dams, irrigating only 10 to 20 ha, are located
at the head of thii< Daddy terraces on side valleys of the main rivers. There



- 9 -
are two large dams in the project area -- Baekgok and Jopyong. Baekgok
irrigates about 1,800 ha, but water from Jopyeong is only used outside of
the project area. Except for 130 km of gravel roads, maintained by the
counties, the roads and tracks leading to most of the villages are too nar-
row for motor vehicles. Nearly 60% of the households have electricity and
more are to be electrified in the next two or three years as part of a gov-
ernment program to bring electricity to 85% of the rural households in
Korea. Most of the villages rely on communal wells for their water sup-
ply. At present only 5% of the villages have piped systems but more sys-
tems are planned under a nation-wide village water supply program (para
2.14).
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Components
4.01      The proposed project would increase agricultural production and
farm incomes on about 12,665 ha. 1/ The project works would irrigate 8,315
ha of land where crop production is presently dependent on rainfall. Within
the irrigated area various forms of land development would be carried out in-
cluding the conversion of uplands for paddy cultivation, land consolidation,
and development of uplands for irrigated orchards and cash crops. Land devel-
opment on 4,350 ha outside of the areas to be irrigated by project works in-
cludes land consolidation on presently irrigated land, and development of
uncultivated uplands for rainfed crops (upland reclamation). The project
components are summarized below:
(a) construction of dams and canals to irrigate 8,315 ha;
(b) conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to irri-
gated paddy fields in areas commanded by the above
canals;
(c) land consolidation, including construction of ditches,
drains and farm roads together with land levelling and
boundary realignment on 4,600 ha (3,150 ha on presently
irrigated land and 1,450 ha in areas to be irrigated by
the project);
(d) development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland crops,
and 550 ha for orchards within the area to be irri-
gated;
1/   In the text and annexes, areas are rounded to only 5 ha, instead of the
normal practice of rounding to 100 ha or more, because of the small scale
of individual components and in order to maintain numerical consistency.



- 10 -
(e) upland reclamation, primarily bench-terracing, of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land;
(f) improvement of about 80 km of river channels to in-
crease their flood discharge capacity;
(g) construction of about 150 km of village access roads;
(h) aerial photography, surveys, and mapping for the design
of project works; and
(i) provision of technical assistance, procurement of vehicles,
and a feasibility study for a second-stage project in the
Miho Watershed.
The components of the project are described below; further details are
given in Annex 2 and cost data are given in Annex 4.
Dams and Canals
4.02      The project would provide irrigation facilities for an area of
8,315 ha, of which 7,115 ha would be served by four independent irrigation
units, each with its own dam and canal system, and the remaining 1,200 ha
by 22 small dams and weirs. Principal features of the four irrigation units
are briefly summarized below and further details are given in Annex 2.
Service
Unit              Area (ha)                         Dams
Kumwang              1,500        Two dams with heights of 20 and 26 m with a
combined storage of 8.8 Mm3 serving a common
canal system.
Maengdong            2,360        A 29 m high dam forming a 9.8 Mm3 reservoir,
linked by a 900 m tunnel to a 1.2 Mm3 diver-
sion reservoir in an adjacent drainage basin.
Baekgok              1,685 1/    An existing 17 m high dam to be raised bv 3 Tr
to increase storage from 7.0 to 17.0 Mm's
Weonnam              1,570        A 25 m high dam storing 7.7 Mm3 with a-rm
tunnel leading to the canal headworksT
1/   1,685 ha is additional to 1,750 ha already being irrigaeti.z
the project a total of 3,435 ha would be irrigated.



- 11 -
4.03      All dams would have earth and rockfill embankments with an adjacent
concrete spillway. Designs vary according to foundation conditions and the
types of fill available within a reasonable haul distance, but generally the
dams have a central clay core surrounded by random fill. Ample deposits of
random fill, often with a high gravel content, are generally found near the
damsites. Suitable core material is less abundant, but can usually be located
within a reasonable haul distance.
4.04       For the areas served by the four irrigation units, about 130 km of
main canals and 140 km of laterals would be constructed. These would be un-
lined canals except for short sections in permeable soils, which would be
lined with concrete. Numerous tunnels, culverts and other structures would
be needed because of irregular topography along the canal alignments. The
areas to be irrigated are generally narrow strips of land along the river
valleys, seldom more than 500 m wide and, consequently, the main canals and
laterals would serve much smaller blocks of land than is normally the case
in large irrigation systems. Therefore, following the usual practice in
Korea, the on-farm distribution systems would be built by farmers, except for
some large blocks totalling 1,450 ha where land consolidation would be carried
out (para 4.06).
Land Development
4.05       Conversion of Uplands to Paddy.  In areas to be irrigated by the
project works, 2,045 ha of cultivated uplands would be converted to paddy
cultivation. The areas to be developed have slopes up to 15% and they would
be converted into a series of horizontal benches with widths ranging from 5
to 10 m depending on the slopes. Uplands to be converted have been carefully
selected to ensure that soils are suited to paddy cultivation and to avoid
disturbing high-value crops such as orchards and ginseng plantations.
4.06      Land Consolidation.  This work would be carried out on 1,450 ha,
or 20%, of the paddy land in the areas to be irrigated by the project works
and on 3,150 ha, or 55%, of the paddy land which is already irrigated in the
project area. Land consolidation consists of replacing the existing uneven
pattern of small irregular plots with larger level plots in a rectangular
grid of ditches, farm roads and drains. Boundary rearrangement leads to minor
changes in size of individual holdings, but there is no change of ownership.
Land consolidation, which has been carried out in large areas of irrigated
land in Korea, improves water management and facilitates mechanical land
preparation, which in turn result in higher rice yields and an increase in the
area of winter barley.
4.07      Land consolidation can generally be justified only in fairly large
blocks where land slopes are less than 2%, since on steeper slopes earth-
moving costs become prohibitive. Irrigation in the Miho watershed was first
established on flat and level blocks of land which could be easily commanded
by weirs on the main rivers. Hence, a larger part of the presently irrigated
land is more suitable for land consolidation than the steeper areas to be



- 12 -
served by the project facilities. Up to the late 1960's most of the land
consolidation in Korea was carried out on large blocks of flat land (less
than 0.5% slope), and topography was not a significant factor in the designs.
As land consolidation came to be applied to steeper land, up to 2% slope, de-
sign procedures were modified to take more account of topography in order to
minimize earthwork quantities. The Bank has participated in the evolution
of design principles for land consolidation through its supervision of on-
going Bank-financed projects.
4.08      Furrow Irrigation.  An area of 495 ha of uplands, of which 410 ha
is presently cultivated and 85 ha is uncultivated, would be developed for
furrow irrigation. In these areas the soils are too shallow to be benched
for paddy cultivation. About 60% of the area has slopes in the 5-10% range,
and 40% has slopes up to 15%. Development would consist of land clearing,
grading, rearrangement of property boundaries, and construction of tertiary
lands, drains and farm roads.
4.09      Orchards.  There are about 550 ha of uncultivated land with fairly
steep slopes (15-35%) in small plots close to the proposed canal alignments.
The access provided by the canal roads and the availability of water would
provide a strong incentive for development of these lands as orchards. The
land would be cleared and graded as part of the project, but orchard estab-
lishment would be left to the farmers.
4.10      Upland Reclamation.  Most of the cultivable land in the watershed
is already being farmed, but detailed surveys have revealed numerous small
areas of uncultivated land totalling about 1,800 ha, which could be developed
for crop production. About 1,200 ha of uncultivated land with slopes in the
10 to 20% range would be developed for the production of rainfed upland crops,
including barley, soybeans, fruits and vegetables. There are basically three
alternative methods of development for upland areas -- bench terracing, semi-
bench terracing (the area between benches is sloped at about 5%), and contour
farming with buffer strips and drains. The selection of the method of devel-
opment depends not only on land slopes and soil characteristics, but also on
the crops to be grown, taking into account such factors as farm size and mar-
ket demand. Surveys indicate that bench-terracing would be appropriate in
the project area since the soils are generally deep and of medium fertility.
This would be confirmed as planning and design proceeds. As the existing
ADC standards for the design and construction of upland reclamation are not
suitable (see Korea: Rural Infrastructure Appraisal Report, February 15,
1976 for details), assurances were obtained that ADC shall use and maintain
such design standards for upland reclamation as shall be agreed with the
Bank. The standards to be employed would be similar to those agreed upon for
the Rural Infrastructure Project.
Channel Improvement
4.11      Sections of river channels with a total length of about 80 km would
be improved to prevent flooding of cultivated land bordering the rivers.
Floods occur several times during the rainy season and can damage rice and



- 13 -
other crops. Channels would be deepened and in some cases straightened.
Materials excavated from the rivers would be used to construct about 100 km
of flood embankments, or levees, about 2 to 3 m high, to protect low-lying
areas. A continuous line of levees along both sides of the channels is not
needed. The top of the levees would carry a 3.5 m wide gravel road. Drain-
age outlets with flap gates would be placed at intervals of about 400 m along
the levees to permit drainage of land behind the levees.
Village Access Roads
4.12      About 150 km of four to five m wide gravel surfaced roads would be
constructed in the project area to provide access for equipment and vehicles
to areas where irrigation and land development would be carried out. These
roads would also serve as part of the county road system linking the vil-
lage to existing national or provincial highways. The project areas are
traversed by a large number of tracks, but few of them are wide enough for
motor vehicles and often become impassable during the rainy season. Some
village roads have been constructed under the Saemaeul Movement (para 2.15),
but these are mostly short links from a main road to a nearby village. Roads
to be constructed under the project would be unsuitable for inclusion in the
Saemaeul Program because they are too long (5 to 10 km) for construction by
manual labor and because they must be built in coordination with other project
construction activities.
Feasibility Study for Stage II
4.13      The feasibility study for the second-stage project in the remain-
ing 110,000 ha of the Miho watershed would be carried out by ADC. Primary
responsibility within ADC would be assigned to the Office of Watershed Devel-
opment (para 5.02), whose capacity to carry out such a study was demonstrated
in the preparation of the proposed project. A project formulation report
based on field surveys, and existing maps and aerial photography, would be
prepared by December 1977 and submitted to the Bank for review and comment.
This report would identify the principal features of the project; describe
requirements for mapping, site investigation, farm surveys; and present
a work program for completion of the feasibility report by June 1979. Korean
consultants, and foreign specialists on short term assignments, would be em-
ployed by ADC, to supplement their own staff resources in carrying out the
study. Assurances were obtained that ADC would employ these consultants on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. In addition to preparation of
irrigation and land development components, the study would also include a
survey to determine the possibilities of increasing productivity of presently
cultivated uplands, with particular reference to agricultural extension and
credit.
Surveys and Mapping
4.14      Aerial photography of the project area to a scale of 1:15,000 was
carried out in 1972. This was used for the resource inventory forming a
basis for the feasibility report. Photography to a scale of 1:8,000 is re-
quired to prepare maps for land acquisition and for detailed designs. Dam-
sites would be mapped to a scale of 1:1,200 and areas scheduled for land



- 14 -
development, reservoirs, and canal alignments would be mapped at a scale of
1:3,000. The maps would be prepared by photogrammetry, but ground surveys
would be carried out in areas where land development is planned to attain the
necessary precision in ground surface elevations. Contractors would be
employed for aerial photography, photogrammetry and ground control surveys.
ADC surveyors would undertake supplementary ground surveys.
Status of Designs
4.15      Preliminary designs have recently been completed for all of the
dams serving the four independent irrigation units. These are based on
accurate topography and adequate foundation and material investigations.
Detailed designs are unlikely to change quantities of the major work items.
Preliminary designs have been prepared for all main canals and laterals.
In some cases, however, the canals were aligned to command larger areas of
upland than it is now proposed to irrigate. Changes in alignments to take
account of this could possibly lead to cost savings in the canal systems.
After finishing the final design and before proceeding with construction
of the small dams, ADC has agreed to provide the Bank with basic data, and
estimates of costs and benefits for the Bank's review and comment. Designs
have been made of sample areas for land consolidation works and 10% of the
length of roads and channel improvement to form a basis for cost estimates.
Implementation Schedule
4.16      The project would be implemented over a period of five and a half
years, from July 1976 to December 1981 (Chart No. 15823). The first year
would be taken up by purchase of right-of-way, preparation of designs and
contract documents, and award of contracts. Construction of the project works
would begin in October 1977 and all works would be completed by mid-1981. In
Korea, contractors are able to work year-round on dams and canals. Develop-
ment works on cultivated land (conversion to paddy, land consolidation and
furrow irrigation) have to be scheduled during the winter to allow the farmers
to plant the main season (May-October) crop. However, such works can be
carried out in advance of the main irrigation facilities, since rainfed crop
production on developed land could continue until irrigation water becomes
available.
Cost Estimates
4.17      The total project cost is estimated at US$75.0 million, of which
US$29.0 million or 39% is foreign exchange. The cost estimates are based on
quantity and unit price estimates prepared by ADC, with unit costs having
been updated to actual January, 1976 levels. Unit prices were calculated
using a standard government procedure which, for each work item, estimates
equipment use (depreciation and operation), labor, materials and contractor's
profit. The unit prices are in line with recent bid prices for similar work.
Physical contingencies of 15% have been applied to the base cost estimates
for civil works. Engineering and administration has been taken as 10% of the
construction cost (including physical contingencies). Costs due to expected
price increases over the implementation period amount to about 35% of total
project costs and assume the following annual inflation rates:



- 15 -
Price escaiation rate (%)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Civil Works               15      12       12       12      10       10
Equipment & Services    10         8        8        8       7        7
The 1976 price escalation rates are those suggested by ADC.  The rates
for 1977-81 follow the Bank guidelines. Details of the project costs are
presented in Annex 4 and summarized below:
Foreign % Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Cost
-------(Won B)-------  -------(US$ M)-------    (%)           (%)
Dams and Canals          5.2     4.3      9.5   10.8      8.8    19.6        45      45
Land Development         2.8     2.3      5.1    5.9      4.6    10.5        45      24
Channel Improvement    0.4       0.3      0.7    0.8      0.6      1.4      45        3
Village Access Roads   0.4       0.3      0.7    0.8      0.7      1.5       45       4
Mapping, consultants
& vehicles            0.1      0.4      0.5    0.2      0.8      1.0      80        2
Feasibility studies    0.3       0.2      0.5    0.5      0.5      1.0       50       2
Right-of-way             2.3      0       2.3    4.8       0       4.8        0      11
Engineering & Admin.   1.6       0.3      1.9    3.3      0.6      3.9       15       9
Base Cost Estimate    13.1       8.1    21.2   27.1    16.6    43.7          38     100
Physical
Contingencies         1.4      0.9      2.3    2.9      1.8      4.7      38       11
Expected Price
Increases             7.8      5.1    12.9   16.0    10.6    26.6         40       61
Total Project Cost    22.3    14.1    36.4   46.0    29.0    75.0            39     171
Financing
4.18      The proposed Bank Loan of US$29.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange requirement of the project. Local expenditures, represent-
ing the estimated balance of project costs, would be met through annual Gov-
ernment budgetary allocations to ADC. While most construction funds would be
channelled through ADC, for upland reclamation works the Government would lend
NACF 30% of the capital cost at 8% interest, with repayment over eight years,
including a three-year grace period. NACF would on-lend these funds to the
farmers at 9% interest and the same repayment terms. Assurances were obtained
that the Government and NACF would make these loans.
Procurement
4.19      Contracts for civil works construction, and for the supply of
cement and reinforcing steel would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The domestic



- 16 -
civil engineering contracting industry has grown rapidly in recent years and
has demonstrated considerable capacity and competence to perform major public
works in Korea as well as overseas. Most local contractors are well equipped
and are expected to be the successful bidders on all contracts under the proj-
ect. ADC's policy is to supply contractors with the cement and steel to be
incorporated in the works. These materials would be procured in bulk on
behalf of ADC by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK). A prefer-
ence limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evalua-
tion of bids.
4.20      The total value of all civil works contracts (exclusive of price
contingencies) would be about US$33 million. Civil works would be packaged
together by areas to form about five contracts with an average value of about
US$6 million. Contracts for cement (US$2.0 million) and reinforcing steel
(US$2.5 million) would be divided into contracts of about US$ 0.5 million in
order to keep the supply of materials in line with requirements. Aerial pho-
tography and mapping services (US$0.5 million) and vehicles (US$80,000) would
be procured through normal government procurement procedures. There are suf-
ficient suppliers of such services and goods to ensure adequate competition.
Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported equipment and materials, and 65% of expend-
itures for equipment and materials manufactured locally. For consultants'
services, disbursements would equal 65% of local costs or 100% of foreign
expenditures. Disbursements for civil works carried out by contractors would
be at 40% of total expenditures, to be disbursed against certified monthly
contractors' progress payment. Undisbursed funds would be cancelled unless an
alternative use was approved by the Bank. The estimated schedule of expend-
itures on the project and the disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 5.
It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 1982.
Accounts and Audits
4.22      Assurances were obtained that ADC would maintain separate accounts
for the project and would employ independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank
to audit project accounts annually; and that the audited accounts, together
with the auditor's comments, would be sent to the Bank within four months of
the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
4.23      Experience in Korea has demonstrated that the development of irri-
gation would have no adverse effects on the environment. On the benefit side,
drainage would be improved under the project and the reservoirs would reduce
the frequency of floods and damage to cultivable land.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Agricultural Development Corporation
5.01      The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a semi-autonomous
agency operating under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (M4F), would
be responsible for project implementation. ADC was created by the Rural Mod-
ernization Promotion Law (Law No. 2199) of January 12, 1970, which merged the
Union of Land Improvement Associations (ULIA) and the Ground Water Development
Corporation. The predecessor institution of the ULIA was formed in July 1940.
The main activities of ADC are the promotion of agriculture through develop-
ment of land and water resources, and the provision of technical assistance
to Farm Land Improvement Associations (FLIA) (para 5.12). ADC is headed by
a president, who is assisted by a vice president, and a six-man board of
directors. The president, who nominates all his staff including department
heads, is appointed by the President of the Republic of Korea, while the vice
president, auditor and directors are appointed by the Minister of Agriculture
and Fisheries (Chart No. 15825).
Project Implementation
5.02      Responsibility for designs, procurement and construction supervi-
sion would rest with ADC's Office of Watershed Development (OWD), which car-
ried out the project feasibility study. This is in line with ADC's normal
practice whereby special units, under a project manager, are set up with the
necessary technical and administrative staff to implement specific projects.
The Manager of OWD would serve as project manager under the general supervi-
sion of one of ADC's directors. Some of OWD's key personnel gained experi-
ence in the design and execution of irrigation and land development works
through their participation in the UNDP upland development and watershed
projects (para 2.11). Additional staff would however be needed, and assur-
ances were obtained that ADC would assign to OWD, as and when needed, the
technical and administrative staff required to implement the project, and
appoint a project manager whose qualifications and experience shall be ac-
ceptable to the Bank.
5.03      ADC would employ consultants on periodic short-term assignments
to assist OWD in the final designs of the dams and canals. The consultants,
an expert in canal design and an expert in the design of dams, would review
the designs before they are finalized to identify and recommend possible
savings in costs and improvements in operating efficiency and safety. Each
consultant would be employed for a total of twelve months. In employing these
consultants ADC would be supplementing its own senior technical staff who
face a considerable work load from ongoing and planned projects and ADC's own
technical assistance activities. Assurances were obtained that ADC would
employ the above consultants on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
5.04      Land acquisition for right-of-way and property compensation on
ADC projects is handled by the provincial authorities with funds provided



- 18 -
by ADC. Assurances were obtained that land and rights to land and prop-
erty would be acquired in a timely manner to avoid any delays in project con-
struction.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.05      Agricultural services in the project area, described below and in
Annex 7, are well organized and would provide adequate support to farmers in
realizing project benefits. The project area is practically all (96%) within
the province of Chungcheong Bug, with the provincial administration at
Cheongju. The remainder of the project area lies in Gyeonggi province.
5.06      Agricultural Research and Extension.  The Office of Rural Develop-
ment (ORD) within MAF is the agency with primary responsibility for agricultu-
ral research, extension and training. Its principal research activities are
conducted at its headquarters at Suwon, 25 km south of Seoul. The provincial
ORD at Cheongju is responsible for research and extension in the project area.
Research is currently aimed at crop yield improvement, earlier maturing var-
ieties, and disease or insect resistance. Trials or plots at the county
level may be part of a research effort, but are usually designed to demons-
trate new or proven practices to the farmers. The experimental and demonstra-
tion results of research are well documented. Extension pamphlets and posters
are adequate for current extension needs. The four counties included in the
project area have 145 extension workers to serve about 75,000 ha of farms,
averaging about one worker to 500 ha or 400 farmers. The existing extension
system works satisfactorily as is evidenced by the relatively high yield level
even under existing rainfed conditions.
5.07      Cooperatives.  Almost all supplies of inputs and credit originat-
ing from Government sources are supplied through the cooperative system. It
also handles marketing of a number of crops. Some 90% of project area farmers
are members of district cooperatives. These primary cooperatives are succes-
sively grouped into county agricultural cooperative federations and ultimately
the National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation (NACF).
5.08      Although NACF is the apex of the rural cooperatives, it actually
functions as a Government trading and banking agency. The president of NACF
is appointed by the President of Korea, and the managers of the provincial
NACF and county cooperatives are in turn appointed by the NACF president.
While the Government effectively channels inputs and credit and assists
farmers in marketing farm products through the cooperatives, they also
serve the farmers in making their needs known to Government. Other farmer
organizations in the project area are the Farm Land Improvement Associations
(FLIA), which operate and maintain irrigation and drainage facilities. They
are described in para. 5.12.
5.09      Fertilizer and Seed.  Annual fertilizer consumption in the project
area is currently some 2,950 nutrient tons, consisting of 1,370 tons nitrogen;
840 tons phosphoric acid; and 740 tons potash. Lime is applied to a small
area (370 ha) of upland crops. At full development the project would require
some 5,500 nutrient tons of fertilizer annually, consisting of 2,520 tons of
nitrogen; 1,580 tons of phosphoric acid; and 1,400 tons of potash. As well,



- 19 -
1,560 tons of lime would be required for upland crops. NACF currently sup-
plies all fertilizers through the district cooperative depots in the project
area, and would be able to handle easily the increased demand.
5.10      The Chungcheong Bug provincial ORD multiplies foundation rice,
barley, wheat, soybean and potato seed to produce registered seed at the ORD
seed farm in Cheongju. Selected seed growers in the villages then use the
registered seed to produce certified seed, which they sell to farmers. At
full development the project would use approximately 100 tons of certified
rice and 100 tons of certified barley seed annually. A new national system
for quality seed supply is presently being established with financial assist-
ance from the Bank (Loan 942-KO), and no problems are expected in obtaining
the quantities of seed needed.
5.11      Credit.  An estimated 15% of project area farmers finance their
requirements of farm inputs and hired labor from their own resources. The
remainder use credit from the NACF, money lenders, millers or relatives. The
NACF supplies approximately 50% of the farmers' production credit needs, pro-
viding six-month loans at 1% interest per month. NACF's annual production
loans in the area amount to some Won 430 million (US$0.9 million), and are
limited by budgetary constraints. Credit from other sources is usually much
more expensive, with money lenders charging 3%-5% interest per month. At
full development, an estimated 8,800 farmers would require an estimated
Won 1,100 million (US$2.3 million) production credit annually. The NACF
project area operations would have to expand by 150% to supply this sum.
An additional US$2.2 million of longer term credit would be required for
farm machinery purchases. Administratively, there would be no difficulties
in handling the increased volume of credit, provided the funds are made
available. Because of the need for credit to finance the larger volume of
farm inputs and machinery requirements under the project, assurances were
obtained that the Government would make the necessary arrangements to meet
the farmer's short and long term credit needs.
Operation and Maintenance
5.12      Responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing irri-
gation projects in Korea rests with the FLIA's. These associations operate
as independent units although their annual operating budgets must be approved
either by the Provincial Government or the MAF, depending on the size of the
project. Most FLIA's also engage extension workers to assist their members.
Three FLIA's, presently operating 5,700 ha in the project area, would be re-
sponsible for the additional areas to be developed by the project. The FLIA's
would operate and maintain the irrigation systems, schedule water deliveries,
allocate and collect project charges, provide extension service and enter
into cooperative arrangements with other agencies, such as NACF and ORD, for
various kinds of assistance to the farmers. Several small irrigation systems,
which would be constructed in isolated areas, would be operated by Water
User Groups or Hung Nong Gaes (HNG's). ADC would establish these groups,
which may in time become big enough to form FLIA's, or join with existing
FLIA's. The standard of O&M on existing irrigation systems in the project



- 20 -
area is generally quite satisfactory. The cost of adequate O&M (in early-
1976 prices) would average about Won 27,650/ha (US$57/ha). Maintenance of
the village access roads would be the responsibility of the counties.
Cost Recovery
5.13      In areas irrigated by the project, farmers would pay the full cost
of O&M, through a water charge imposed and collected by the FLIA, as well
as an annual charge for repayment of 30% of the capital cost of the irrigation
facilities (about US$3,800/ha on average excluding the farmers' labor used
to construct the on-farm network) at 3.5% interest over 35 years (Annex 9).
Farmers also pay a production tax of 6% on all foodgrain production above 1.4
ton/farm on the ricelands, and 6% of the gross value of crop production above
Won 85,000/ha on the uplands. Using a discount rate of 10% and a period of 35
years, this implies a cost recovery index of 36%. At full project development
on a 1.5 ha farm, incremental 0 & M charges, capital repayments, and direct
taxes due to the irrigation facilities would be about Won 100,000 annually, or
18% of incremental income (Won 562,000/year). The beneficiaries of upland
reclamation would repay 30% of the capital cost (about US$1,650/ha on average)
at 9% interest, with repayment over eight years, including a three-year grace
period. At a 10% discount rate, the proposed terms imply a cost recovery index
of 41%.
5.14      The above charges are compared in Annex 9 with the "project rent,"
which is defined as incremental net farm income before paying water charges
less the imputed value of family labor, farm management, the return on the
farmer's own capital investment, taxes and an allowance for risk/uncertainty.
The implications of the proposed charges for income distribution are also
examined. According to this analysis, the proposed charges are about 27% of
project rent, for the smaller farmers, and about 20% of project rent for the
larger farmers. A forthcoming Bank economic mission will review price policies
in the agriculture sector and urban/rural income distribution which have
a bearing on appropriate levels of cost recovery. At present the Government's
repayment policy is uniform throughout the country, and laid down by law. Any
change to this law should await discussion of the mission's findings with the
Government. In suggesting this action, it is pointed out that:
(a)  the absolute level of project charges and general taxes at
full development is considerable, varying from US$190/ha to
US$260/ha;
(b)  the collection of water charges in Korea is commonly greater
than 98% of assessments.
5.15      Assurances were obtained from the Government that project farmers
would contribute to the capital and annual costs of the project facilities
at the levels described in para 5.13.



- 21 -
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Implementation of the project would lead to changes in land use, a
more intensive cropping pattern, and higher yields. Upon completion, the
project net cultivable area would increase by 1,835 ha to 12,665 ha; and the
irrigated area would increase from 3,150 ha to 11,465 ha. The remaining
1,200 ha would be rainfed. Annual cropping intensity would increase from
117% to 138%. Adequate irrigation facilities, land consolidation, flood
control and expanded credit supplies would encourage increased plantings of
high yielding rice varieties, good quality varieties for other crops, heavier
fertilizer applications, and greater use of crop protection chemicals. To
overcome labor shortages, the use of machinery would increase for land prep-
aration, threshing and hauling. At full agricultural development in 1986,
most farmers are expected to thresh their rice and barley crops mechanically,
use a combination of machinery and animal-drawn implements for land prepara-
tion, and mechanically haul most farm inputs and produce.
6.02      At full development, estimated rice yields for consolidated and
non-consolidated areas would average 4.5 ton/ha per crop (polished rice).
Estimated barley yields would average 2.6 ton/ha per crop irrigated, and 2.4
ton/ha per crop rainfed. Farmers would achieve these yields five years
after the completion of project works or introduction of water on areas to
be irrigated. Annual rice production would increase to about 47,000 tons,
from present 24,000 tons, and annual barley production would increase to about
12,500 tons, from the present production, 3,600 tons.
Prices
6.03      All prices have been adjusted to a January, 1976 level; whenever
possible crop prices for economic analysis have been based on the Bank's pro-
jections of 1985 world market prices. Thus the world market price was used
for rice, soybeans, tobacco and fertilizer. In the absence of price forecasts
for polished barley for human consumption, a price equal to 85% of that
projected for wheat flour was used because, based on observed price trends,
this is the price ratio between the two products on the local market. For
other crops, and for farm income analysis, average farmgate prices for the
last five years (adjusted for inflation) have been used. As there is little
market for fuelwood, the value was determined in terms of agricultural resi-
dues and coal, the alternative fuels for which it would be substituted.
Farm Incomes
6.04      For the purpose of farm income analysis, three representative farm
models were examined; 0.5 ha; 1.5 ha; and 2.5 ha. Land use and cropping
patterns for the present condition broadly reflect averages for cultivated
lands in the project area. The future condition assumes that the 0.5 ha
farms would be entirely under irrigation; the 1.5 ha and 2.5 ha farms would



- 22 -
have irrigation facilities for 90X of their net cultivable area. The analy-
sis' results are summarized below and shown in further detail in Annex 8. Net
farm income is equal to the gross value of production less cash inputs, hired
labor costs, taxes, 0 & M charges and capital repayments, plus income earned
off-farm or from non-farming sources.
Farm       Cropping Intensity                       Farm Income/a
Size     Present  With Project  Present  With Project  Present  With Project
(ha)     -------(%)-----------  ------(Won '000)-----  -------(US$)---------
0.5       120          140           420         590          870        1,220
1.5       113          137           800       1,475        1,650        3,040
2.5       113          137         1,205       2,240        2,480        4,620
/a   Rounded to nearest Won 5,000 and US$10, and includes off-farm and non
agricultural income.
6.05      Present net farm incomes vary from won 420,000 (US$870) on a 0.5 ha
farm to Won 1,205,000 (US$2,480) on a 2.5 ha farm. Similarly at full develop-
ment net farm income would vary from Won 590,000 (US$1,220) on 0.5 ha to
Won 2,240,000 (US$4,620) on 2.5 ha. This represents a 40%-85% income increase,
and indicates that the farmers would have sufficient financial incentive to
participate in the project (Annexes 8, 9).
6.06      Although comparisons of farm incomes based on farm budgets with
income data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with
caution, they do present a rough picture of the relative income position of
project beneficiaries. With an estimated six persons per family and one
family per farm, present per capita farm income (US$145-US$415) is about
25%-75% of the estimated 1976 per capita GNP of US$545. Providing the farm-
ing population remains constant, at full project development in 1991 the
projected per capita farm income is estimated to be 25%-85% of the then per
capita GNP. The project would slightly narrow the income gap (which without
the project is expected to widen) between the farmers in the area and the
national average per capita income.
6.07      About one-third of the projects' farm families are currently es-
timated to have per capita incomes below the absolute poverty level of arournd
Won 80,000 (US$165).  At full agricultural development the project woul'!
crease this group's incomes on average by 50%, taking about half the   ;ivs
in the group above the absolute poverty level.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The proposed project would directly benefit some             farm fami-
lies or approximately 63,000 people.  The project works an-l   . rease yields
and production on nearly 12,700 ha through irrigation anc    1 development,



- 23 -
including developing of about 1,800 ha of presently uncultivated land
for crop production. By increasing annual cropping intensity and the net
cultivable area, the project would create a demand for an additional 496,000
man-days of farm labor per year, or about 2,100 man-years. The proposed vil-
lage access roads would facilitate the moving, and reduce transport costs, of
farm inputs and produce; allow villagers to more fully enter the market eco-
nomy; and enable children from more isolated areas to attend school. The
project would support the Government's policies to increase foodgrain produc-
tion, and reduce income disparities between rural and urban incomes.
7.02      The project's overall economic rate of return would be 15%, using
a 35-year evaluation period; full project benefits being attained in 1991 ten
years after completion of construction; farm gate prices for rice, soybean,
tobacco and fertilizer based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1985
expressed in January 1976 constant prices; a shadow foreign exchange rate of
US$1.00 = Won 560; an average shadow wage rate for unskilled labor of Won
1,450 per man-day; and assuming the project facilities have a salvage value of
25% of their original cost at the end of the evaluation period. Individual
project components were also evaluated, and showed economic rates of return
from 12% for both the small dams and Weonnam dam and facilities to 35% for
upland reclamation works (Annex 10).
7.03      The project's rate of return showed little sensitivity to varia-
tions in the cost estimate or assumptions made concerning the timing of
agricultural benefits. It showed more sensitivity to a reduction in the
level of benefits, emphasizing the importance of the timely availability of
adequate credit and other farm inputs. In none of the cases tested, however,
did the rate of return for the entire project fall below 12%. On the other
hand, if project benefits turn out to be 25% higher than forecasted because
of higher commodity prices, the rate of return would be 18%.
7.04      At full agricultural development the project would result in rice
import savings of Won 3,500 million (US$7 million) annually at the projected
world market price cif Incheon/Busan (Annex 10). After deducting the incre-
mental cost of imported fertilizers, chemicals, fuel annd other farm inputs,
annual net foreign exchange savings would amount to about Won 2,500 million
(US$5 million).
7.05      In implementing the project, risks to be met are no greater than
can normally be expected with operations of this type.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a) ADC shall use and maintain such design standards for up-
land reclamation as shall be agreed with the Bank. The
standards to be employed would be similar to those agreed
upon for the Rural Infrastructure Project (para 4.10);



- 24 -
(b) ADC would engage consultants on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank to assist OWD with the Feasibility
Study for Stage II (para 4.13);
(c) the Government wold lend NACF 30% of the capital cost
for upland reclamation at 8% interest, with repayment over
eight years, including a three-year grace period. NACF
would on-lend these funds to the farmers at 9% interest
and the same repayment terms (para 4.18);
(d) ADC would maintain separate accounts for the project and
would employ independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank,
to audit project accounts annually; and that the audited
accounts, together with the auditors's comments, would be
sent to the Bank within four months of the close of each
financial year (para. 4.22);
(e) ADC would assign to OWD the technical and administrative
staff needed to implement the project, and appoint a
project manager whose qualifications and experience would
be acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.02);
(f) ADC would engage consultants on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank to assist OWD in the final designs
of the dams and canals (para. 5.03);
(g) ADC would make the necessary arrangements to ensure the
purchase of land and rights to land and property in a
timely manner to avoid any delays in project construction
(para 5.04);
(h) the Government would make the necessary arrangements to
meet the farmers' short and long term credit needs (para
5.11); and
(i) Project farmers would contribute to the capital and annual
costs of the project facilities at least at the levels
described in para 5.13 (para 5.15).
8.02      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$29.0 million for a period of 22 years including a
five-year grace period to the Agricultural Development Corporation with the
guarantee of the Republic of Korea.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
Climatological Data Miho Watershed
Jan      Feb       Mar      Apr       May       Jun       Jul      Aug       Sep       Oct       Nov       roe       Total
Rainfall 1/ (mm)
Average                      36        35       55        85        98      125       311       283       150       55        49        14        1,296
Maximum                     100        72      166       187       252      265       694       545       348       121       95        32        1,676
Minimum                       0        12        1        14        36       42        89       136        15        11       14         6          884
Number of rainy days 2/         9         7        5         6         8        7        12        12         9         7       10         6           98
Temperature (IC) 2/
Mean                       -2.1      -0.1      3.8      11.7      16.8     21.7      26.1      25.7      19.3      11.9      5.3      -1.6
Mean Maximum                5.4       5.3     12.3      18.5      20.8     24.1      29.6      28.7      24.0      16.8     12.7       5.3
Mean Minimum               -9.8      -6.2     -4.2       3.4      12.2     18.3      21.3      20.3      13.3       5.6     -3.2      -9.9
1/ Period of observation 1963-1973.
2/ Period of observation 1971-1973.
e -.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Works
Dam and Canals
1.        The project would provide irrigation facilities for 8,315 ha.
Four independent irrigation units, each with its own system of dams and
canals, would serve 7,115 ha (Table 1). The remaining 1,200 ha would
be irrigated from 22 small dams and five weirs with a typical small dam
serving about 50 ha. Details of present and projected land use in areas
served by the irrigation facilities are presented in Annex 7, Tables 1-3.
2.        Principal features of the four irrigation units are:
Service
Unit      Area (ha)                          Dams
Kumwang      1,500        Two dams with heights of 29 m and 26 m with a
combined storage of 8.8 Mm serving a common
canal system.
Maengdong   2,360         A 29 m high dam forming a 9.8 Mm3 reiervior,
linked by a 900 m tunnel to a 1.2 Mm diversion
reservoir in an adjacent drainage basin.
Baekgok      1,685        An existing 17 m high dam So be rais5d by 5 m to
increase storage from 7 Mm to 17 Mm .
Weonnam      1,570        A 25 m high dam storing 7.7 Mm  with an 1,800 m
tunnel leading to the canal headworks.
The small dams would be from 8 m to 12 m high. Foundation conditions and
topography at the damsites favor the construction of fill-type dams. The
valleys are fairly wide (crest lengths are between 200 and 300 m), with
silts, clays, and gravels overlaying granite which is often weathered to
a depth of several meters. All of the dams would be of the embankment
type with concrete overflow spillways. The embankment would have a central
clay core surrounded by a shell of random fill. The core would be carried
down to sound rock and the shell would be placed on weathered granite
after removal of unconsolidated overburden. Side slopes and thickness
of core would depend on the material available within a reasonable haul



ANNEX 2
Page 2
distance. Ample deposits of random fill, often with a fairly high gravel
content, are usually found near the sites. Suitable core material is less
abundant but can usually be found. Rock and filter material for slope pro-
tection is readily available at most sites. Side-channel over-flow spill-
ways without gates would be founded on rock on the abutements. Raising of
the Baekgok dam would require converison of the existing siphon to a gated,
overflow spillway. Reservoir outlets would be formed by concrete conduits
founded on rock. For the areas served by the large dams, about 130 km of
main canals and 140 km of laterals would be constructed. Most of the canals
would be unlined, but some short sections in permeable soils would be lined
with concrete. A number of siphons and tunnels would be needed because of
the irregular topography along the canal alignments. Further details of the
four irrigation units are given in Table 1.
On-farm Distribution and Land Consolidation
3.        The areas to be irrigated are generally narrow strips of land
along the river valleys, seldom more than 500 m wide. Because of the rela-
tively short lengths of tertiary canals required, their construction would
be left to the farmers who traditionally are willing to join together in
such works. Farmland Improvement Associations (FLIA's) would organize
farmers to do the work, and farmers would bear the cost. The area in-
volved is 6,865 ha. However, where large blocks of irrigated land extend a
considerable distance from the canals, the on-farm distribution systems would
be designed and constructed as a part of the project works. This would take
the form of land consolidation which consists of a rectangular grid of
ditches, roads and drains, with land levelling and boundary realignment over
most of the area. Some 1,450 ha would be consolidated.
4.        Land consolidation would also be carried out on about 3,150 ha of
land which is already irrigated and lies outside of the areas to be irrigated
by project facilities. The advantages of land consolidation are that (a) it
facilitates mechanical land preparation, (b) it allows easier access to the
fields and improved standards of farm management, and (c) it allows more
efficient control of irrigation and drainage. The improvements in crop
and water management lead to higher rice yields. Also, more timely land
preparation combined with effective drainage at the end of the rice growing
season facilitate the planting of a winter cereal crop.
5.        Land consolidation has been carried out on about 200,000 ha in
Korea over the past 20 years. Priority was given to large, flat blocks of
land with slopes not exceeding 0.5%. Under these conditions, earth moving
quantities were low and uniform standards for the layout of the drains and
farm roads were developed. However, land consolidation is now increasingly
being carried out where slopes are steeper (0.5-2.0%) and topography is more
irregular. Such conditions have been encountered in recent Bank-financed
projects 1/ and attempts to follow standard design procedures led initially
1/   Pyongtaek-Kumgang (Loan 600-KO).
Yong San Gang Stage I (Loan/Credit 795/283-KO).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
to excessive earthwork quantities. ADC, its consultants, and Bank staff have
devoted considerable attention to the problem. As a result, design principles
have been evolved and are being applied which aim at minimizing earthwork
quantities by adjusting layout to topography.
Upland Development
6.        Conversion of Uplands to Paddy.  About 2,045 ha of presently
cultivated uplands would be converted to paddy cultivation in areas to be
irrigated by the project works. Areas to be converted would be carefully
selected to ensure that soils are suited to paddy cultivation and to avoid
disturbing orchards and ginseng plantations. The areas to be developed have
slopes generally in the range of 5%-10%, and they would be converted into a
series of horizontal benches with widths ranging from 20 m to 10 m depending
on the slopes. Design and construction techniques for paddy conversion have
been developed in the Pyongtaek-Kumgang Project and also in the UNDP/FAO
Watershed Project.
7.        Furrow Irrigation.  A total of 495 ha of upland would be developed
for furrow irrigation, of which 410 ha are presently cultivated and 85 ha are
uncultivated. These are areas where soils are too shallow to be benched for
paddy cultivation. Slopes range from 5% to 15%. Development would consist
of land clearing, grading, rearrangements of property boundaries, and con-
struction of tertiary canals, drain and farm roads.
8.        Orchards.  There are about 550 ha of fairly steep (15-35% slopes)
uncultivated land, scattered in small blocks close to the proposed canal
alignments. Improved access provided by the canal road and the proximity
of an irrigation water supply would provide an incentive for orchard devel-
opment on these lands. They would be cleared and graded as part of the
project, but orchard establishment and facilities to deliver water from the
canals would be left to the land owners. The trees would be irrigated only
two to three times a year using portable pipes and pumps.
9.        Upland Reclamation.  About 1,200 ha of uncultivated lands, out-
side of the areas to be served by the irrigation works, would be developed
for rainfed crop production. There are basically three alternative methods
of development for upland areas: bench terracing, semi-bench terracing
(the area between benches is sloped about 5%), and contour farming with
buffer strips and drains. The method to be adopted depends not only on
slopes and soil characteristics, but also on the crops to be grown, which
in turn are determined by such factors as farm size and proximity to
markets. The areas to be developed are covered with small trees and
native grasses, and about 500 ha have slopes in the 10-15% range and 700 ha
in the 15-20% range. Soils are generally deep and of medium fertility, and
suitable for a wide range of upland crops. Under these circumstances, bench
terracing is proposed. Designs would be based on detailed topographic and
cadastral surveys. In some areas with irregular terrain and dense vegeta-
tion, land clearing and rough levelling, to remove mounds and gulleys, would



ANNEX 2
Page 4
be carried out prior to the surveys. The geometry of the benches and
risers would depend on the original ground slope. Risers are usually
limited in height to 1 m, and thus the benches become quite narrow (4 to
8m) on the steeper slopes. Inspection of existing bench terraces con-
structed by farmers in the project areas, and those constructed else-
where by the Office of Watershed Development (OWD), shows that surface
drainage needs careful attention to avoid excessive erosion. Grassed
channels, or channels lined with plastic sheets, appear to be effective,
and farmers use plastic sheets on a large scale. OWD has agreed to base
their planning and designs for upland reclamation on a report prepared by
a Bank consultant. 1/
Channel Improvement
10.       Throughout Korea most of the best agricultural land lies in the
flood plains of the rivers, and over the years large investments have
been made in flood embankments and river training on the larger rivers.
However, in the project areas, as in the rest of Korea, lands along many
of the smaller rivers remain unprotected.
11.       Surveys of the project areas have identified a total of about
80 km of river channels where improvements are needed to protect land and
crops from flood damage. Flood embankments, or levees, are the main
features of channels protection. Material is excavated from the river
channels to construct the levees, and this increases the channel cross-
section and hence its conveyance capacity. In some areas the river
channels would be straightened to reclaim marginal land bordering the
channels. The excavated material (boulders, gravel and sand) would be
placed in the levees so that the large boulders would form a protective
facing on the channel side of the levee. About 100 km of levees would
be constructed for the 80 km of channel improvement, since in some sections
a levee is needed only on one side of the channel. Levees would vary in
height according to local conditions and would average 2 to 3 m. Except
where an existing road runs parallel to the river, the top of the levee
would be wide enough to carry a 3.5 m wide gravel road. In constructing
a levee, provision would be made to drain the land it protects; a collector
drain would be located just inside the levee and drainage culverts with
flap gates would be located at intervals of about 400 m.
Access Roads
12.       About 150 km of four to five m wide gravel roads would be built to
provide access to areas where project works are to be undertaken. In general,
the roads would follow existing tracks to minimize land acquisition and would
range in length 5 to 10 km. They would generally follow flat terrain, and
earth-work would mainly consist of raising the road above the surrounding
paddies. Present standards for bank protection and drainage of village
1/ "Guidelines for Upland Development" Leslie F. Shanan, October 1975.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
roads would be used. The roads would be surfaced with 20 cm of crushed stone
or river gravel. Culverts would be needed at frequent intervals and allowance
has been made in the cost estimate for a 25 m bridge on an average of every
5 km. Bridges would be designed for single-lane traffic only and would normal-
ly have a 4.0 m travelled width. The design loading would be the Korean equi-
valent to the HS-20-44 loading of the American Society of State Highway Offi-
cials. Sources of construction material are readily available within short
distances of the roads. Bridges would be simple reinforced concrete slab (or
beam and slab) construction, with solid piers and abutments. Labor would use
simple concrete mixers, powered by hand or small gasoline engines, to mix
concrete for bridges or minor structures. Since there are only about 130 km
of gravel roads in the project area at present, the proposed roads would sig-
nificantly improve access from the villages to the main roads leading into
the project.
Feasibility Study for Stage II
13.       The feasibility study for the second-stage project in the remain-
ing 110,000 ha of the Miho watershed would be carried out by ADC. Primary
responsibility would be assigned to OWD whose capacity to carry out such a
study was demonstrated in the preparation of the proposed project. A pro-
ject formulation report based on field surveys, and existing maps and
aerial photography, would be prepared by July 1977 and submitted to the
Bank for review and comment. This report would identify the principal
features of the project; describe requirements for mapping, site investiga-
tion, farm surveys and present a work program for completion of the feasibi-
lity report by December 1978. Korean consultants, and foreign specialists
on short term assignments, would be employed by OWD, to supplement their
own staff resources in carrying on the study. In addition to preparation of
irrigation and land development components, the study would also include a
survey to determine possibilities, for increasing productivity of presently
cultivated uplands with particular reference to agricultural extension and
credit. Cost estimates for the study are shown in Annex 4.
Surveys and Mapping
14.       Aerial photography of the project area to a scale of 1:15,000 was
carried out in 1972. This was used for the resource inventory forming a
basis for the feasibility report. Photography to a scale of 1:8,000 would
be required to prepare maps for land acquisition and for detailed designs?
Damsites would be mapped at a scale of 1:1,200 and areas scheduled for la-d
development, reservoirs, and canal alignments would be mapped at 1:3,000 The
maps would be prepared by photogrammetry, but ground surveys would be carried
out in areas where land development is planned to attain the necessary pre-
cision in ground surface elevations.  Contractors would be employed 3Wai
photography, photogrammetry and ground control surveys.  ADC surveyors would
undertake supplementary ground surveys.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Irrigation Facilities
I/              2/           3/
Project Unit:                Kumwang             Maengdong-         Baekgok-    Weonna3r-
Dam I     Dam II    Dam I       Dam II
Catchment Area (hi)           750       2,llO            4,400            8,160        3,840
Annual Runoff (MT )             4.5        13               26               49           23
Live Storage (Mm )              2.4         6.4       1.2         9.8        17            7.7
Max. Height of Dam (m)         20          26         7           29         22            25
Crest Length of Dam (mi       240         270      210          230         220          260
Volume of Fill ('000 m )    130           260      120          350         130          320
Main Canals (km)                    39                      29                37           28
Lateral Canals (km)                 20                      41                18          62
Service Area (ha)
Paddy                          1,300                   1,840            1,550        1,460
Upland                           -                       300               85          -
Orchard                          200                     220               50          110
1,500                  2,360             1,685        1,570
Right-of-way (ha)
Paddy                             19                      65               45           50
Upland                            51                      78               17           45
Uncultivated                      62                      61               55           47
132                    204               117          142
'-.3
1/  Includes a storage dam and a smaller reservoir formed by a 7 m high diversion                         I|x
dam; the two reservoirs would be linked by a 900 m long tunnel.
2/ An existing dam to be raised by 5 mn to increase storage capacity by 10 Mm3.
3/  An 1,800 m tunnel would take water from the dam to the canal headworks.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation Facilities Cost
(US$/ha) /1
Kumwang    Maengdong      Baekgok      Weonnam    Small Dams   Average Cost
(1,500 ha)  (2,360 ha)    (1,685 ha)   (1,570 ha)  (1,200 ha)    (8,315 ha)
Storage Construction                      1,086          890           712 -         752        2,375         1,078
Main and Lateral Canal System              1,593       1,030         1,199          1,561         425         1,179
Land Consolidation /3                      1,292         953           855         1,044          988         1,016 /4
Land Acquisition, Road Relocation
and Other Compensation                     787         581           475           675          517           605
Total - Without Land Consolidation         3,466       2,501         2,386         2,988        3,317         2,862
- With Land Consolidation           4,758        3,454        3,241          4,032        4,305        3,878
/1 Not including contingencies, engineering, supervision and administration.
/2 An existing dam would be raised by 5 m.
/3 Land Consolidation is at the farm level, and consists of a rectangular grid of ditches, roads,
drains, and land levelling over most of the area. Only 1,450 ha would be consolidated of the
8,315 ha to be irrigated. Farmers themselves would finance and implement on-farm development
on the remaining 6,865 ha.
/4 An average for 1,450 ha only.
I-.t>4
M~



ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
1.        The precipitation data shown in Table 1 illustrate the erratic
pattern of rainfall during the June-September rice growing season (the crop
is usually transplanted in June and harvested early in October). For most
of the 11 years oi tecord shown, the rainfall is significantly below crop
water requirements in at least one month. Few of the farms in the project
area are, however, entirely dependent on direct rainfall since they are
usually located in low-lying areas where runoff can be collected from
the hillsides or diverted from the rivers. This, combined with skillfull
water management by the farmers, tends to even out the extreme fluctuations
in rainfall and explains the relatively high yields obtained under adverse
climatic conditions. Nevertheless, prolonged droughts inhibit the use of
high yielding rice varieties and hold yields of traditional varieties below
their potential. Shortage of water can be particularly acute in June for
transplanting and land preparation, and prolonged droughts are common in
July and August.
2.        Annual water requirements for rice for the period 1963-73 are
shown in Table 3. Crop consumptive use was estimated by multiplying ob-
served pan evaporation in the project area by crop coefficients based on
recent experimental data in Korea (Table 2). Effective rainfall for each
month in the growing season was estimated from daily rainfall records. For
the period 1963-68, effective rainfall during the growing season averaged
73% of tot9l rainfall. The average irrigation requirement for the period
is 5,350 m /ha (Table 3).
3.        The loss due to seepage and operational waste in the main canals
and laterals is estimated at 15%. Below the tertiary outlet the chief source
of loss would be deep percolation, which has been allowed for in estimating
the farm irrigation requirement. In addition, a loss due to operational
waste of 10% in the tertiary systems has been assumed. After taking account
of the above losses, the average annual diversion req3uirement (that is the
requirement at the head of the main canal) is 6,990 m /ha (Table 3).
4.        The lack of streamflow records for the project area made it
necessary to estimate runoff for the four irrigation units on the basis of
data from similar catchment areas in Korea. ThesS data show that a good
approximation of average annual runoff is 6,000 m /ha. This relatively high
figure, about 50% of the total precipitation, is explained by the steep
catchment areas with low infiltration rates (rock to the surface) and by the
short intcnse storms, which produce most of the rainfall.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        ADC follows conservative policies in the planning of irrigated
projects. Nominally the systems are designed to meet full irrigation
demands in 9 years out of 10. This is because strict compliance in cost
recovery charges can only be expected if farmers have a high degree of
confidence in their water supply.
6.        Lack of data precluded detailed operation studies to optimize
sizing of reservoirs and service areas for the four irrigation units, and
it was necessary to rely on judgment supported by operating experience from
other storage projects in Korea. A fairly reliable guide is that (a) the
catchment area should be no less than twice the area to be irrigated, 1/ and
(b) the reservoir capacity should by 30% or more of the annual runoff. Thus,
in an average year the unregulated runoff would be 12,000 m3/ha. A reservoir,
therefore, would be required to provide sufficient regulation to utilize
about one-half of the runoff in an average year. In a dry year, when run-
off is low, a higher degree of regulation would be possible since less water
would be spilled during floods. To test the validity of the above cri-
teria, the water supply and demand in the service area of the Kumgang dam
were calculated for a critical year 2/ (Table 2). The results shows that
the water suppply would adequately meet the paddy requirements. Similar
calculations made for the Maendong, Baekgok and Weonnam dams also yielded the
same results. The above criteria are therefore valid and the four irigation
units, which all meet the above criteria (Table 4), would be able to meet
irrigation requirements.
7.        There are no water quality data available for the streams in the pro-
ject area, but crops have been irrigated for many years in the project area
without any adverse effects. Soils and parent materials in the watershed
bear no toxic elements so it can be assumed that the quality of water is
suitable for sustained irrigation.
1/   Assuming, as is usually the case in Korea, that virtually all of the
irrigated area is planted to rice.
2/   Year for which rainfall and streamflow are exceeded in nine out of
10 years.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJE;CT
Monthly Precipitation at Jincheon (mm)
Year
Morth     1963    1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
Jan        -        32      15        3       1,      13      100       2       31      86       96
Feb         25      48       18      45       23      15       50      72       42      33       12
1ar         1      53       20     157       58      63       19      10       59     166        1
' or      139       59      42       35      77       14     187       88       56     1o6      137
May        252      93      36       64       59      45      130      94       90      115      96
Jun       250       87      61      129     167       51      42       98      265      44      180
July      365      354     694      241     252      196     335      268      436     191       89
Aug        138     474     221      212      243     244      439     136      295     545      177
Sep        23      289      15      239      66       62     251      348       73     144      141
Oct        37       52      24       92       17     120       15     121       11      64       49
Nov         33      28       95      54       91      52       32      28       14       54      54
Dec         32       8        7      19       10      11       20      19        9        6      14         3
Total    1,295   1,576   1,248      288   1,o80       884   11676   1,284   1,310   1,553   1,045            |w



KOREA
WATER SUPPLY AND DEMAND
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kumwang Dam Irrigation Requirements (mm)
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun         Jul        Aug     Sept      Oct    Nov    Dec    Total
Land Preparation & Nursery                                             120                                                             120
Transplanting                                                           50                                                              50
Ponding 2/                                                                         50                                                   50
Consumptive Use 3/                                                                130     210      150                                490
Percolation                                                             40        120     120      120                                400
Crop Water Requirement                                                 210        300     330      270                              1,110
Rainfall 4/                      96      12     1      137     96      180         89     177      141        49     54      14      1,046
Effective Rainfall                                                     115         65     140      115          -      -       -       435
Irrigation Requirement                                                  95       235      190      155                                675
Diversion Requirement 5/                                               123        305     247      201                                876
Irrigable Area (ha)                                                     -------1,400---------------
Diversion Requirement (Mm3)                                              1.7        4.3     3.5      2.8                                12.3
Reservoir Inflow (Mm32 6/         1.4    0.2    -        2.0    1.4      2.6        1.3     2.5      2.0       0.7    0.8    0.2        15.1
Change in Ssorage (Mm )          +1.4   +0.2    -      +2.0   +1.4    +0.9         -3.0    -1.0    -0.8      +0.7   +0.8   +0.2
Storage (Mm                       3 .1    3.3   3.3      5.3    6.7      7.6        4.6      3.6     2.87/    0.7    1.5    1.7
Spillage (Mm ) 8/-                               -       -       -       -         -        -         -         -      -       -        -
1/ Water required for nursery, soil saturation and replenishment of evaporating water during land preparation.
2/ Depth maintained at 60 mm during growing season.
3/  Derived as follows:                 Pan Evaporation   Crop Coefficient   Consumptive Use
Jul            118               1.1                  130
Aug            155               1.35                 210
Sep            120               1.25                 150
4/  Critical Year Rainfall (total rainfall from June to September is exceeded in nine out of ten years); 1973 rainfall figures are used.
5/  Assumes loss in main canals of 15% and tertiary systems of 10%.
6/  Critical Year Runoff (exceeded in nine out of 10 years); based on runoff coefficient of 0.50.
7/  Available water in reservoir at end of growing season; based on assumption that reservoir was empty at the end of the previous
growing season.
8/ No spillage during critical year.
crq



ANNEX 3
Table 3
KOREA
K'qO WATERSHED AREA DEELOPME1T PROJECT
Annual Water Damands
Crop lWater    Effective    Irrigation       Diversion
Year    Requirement   Rainfall       Requirement   Requirement
__________- tmm  -----------                   (m-1/ha)d
1963       1,110          585           535             6,990
1964       1,110          875           245             3,200
1965       l,llO          510           610             7,970
1966       1,no0          464           655             8,560
1967       1,110          525           595             7,780
1968       1,llG          385           735            9,610
1969       1,110           805          315             4,120
1970       1,110          600           520            6,800
1971       1,110          685           435            5,690
1972      1,110          560           560            7,320
1973       1,110          440           680            8,890
Average       535             6,990



ANNEX 3
Table 4
KOREA
MEHO WATERSHED AREA DVELOMENT PROJECT
Water Supply and Demand
Kunwang   Maengdong   Baekgok   Weonnam
Catchment Area (ha)              2,860      4,400      8,160      3,840
Average annual runoff (Mm3)       17.5         26         49         23
Reservoir Storage (Mm3)            8.8         11          17       7.7
(m3/ha)       6,280      5,64o      5,090      5,270
Irrigated Area (ha)                                   (1,750)1/
Paddy                         1,300      1,840      1,550      1,460
Upland           2/             200        520        135        110
Paddy equivalent -           1s400       2,100      3,370     1,520
Catchment Area                     2.0        2.1        2.4        2.5
Irrigation Area
Storage                      .5        .42        935        .33
Average Annual Runoff
1/ Area presently irrigated.
2/ Assumes requirement for 2 ha of upland equals requirement for 1 ha
of paddy.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
1.        Designs of the dams and canals to serve the four independent irriga-
tion units are in sufficient detail for quantity estimates. OWD used a stand-
ard government procedure to estimate unit prices for each work item. This
procedure is set out in a handbook published by the Government in January of
each year. For a wide range of construction activities, the handbook provides
labor and equipment inputs; prices for labor, materials and equipment; and
various coefficients and factors to be employed in the estimating process.
The unit prices computed for the project works take into account the revision
to basic prices published by the Government through November 1975 and there-
fore can be considered as representing January, 1976 price levels. The com-
puted prices are in line with unit prices (adjusted for price escalation)
quoted by contractors for ongoing Bank-financed projects. A check of the OWD
quantity estimates showed them to be adequate. Costs for the small dams and
canals are based on preliminary designs for three typical schemes; a net con-
struction cost of Won 1,360,000 (US$2,800) per ha was used.
2.        Construction costs for conversion of uplands to paddy, and for land
consolidation are based on recent (October 1975) bid prices for similar work
on the Pyongtaek-Kumgang and Yong San Gang Projects. The construction cost
for bench-terracing of uncultivated upland is based on a recent study by a
Bank consultant (Annex 2). For cultivated uplands developed for furrow irrga-
tion, and for development of uncultivated land for orchards, the construction
cost estimates are based on OWD's experience under similar conditions else-
where in Korea. Construction costs of access roads and channel improvements
are based on preliminary designs for sample sections. Physical contingengies
amount to 15% of the net construction cost. Engineering and administration
costs are 10% of the net cost plus physical contingencies.
3.        OWD has surveyed the areas to be inundated by the reservoirs and
the land to be acquired for construction of project works. Unit costs for
land acquisition, in January, 1976 prices are:
Won M/ha        US$/ha
Paddy                                4.7           9,700
Cultivated Upland                    2.5           5,150
Uncultivated Upland                  0.8           1,650
Compensation would also be paid for houses and farm buildings and also for
the removal and relocation of graves. These costs would, however, be small
in relation to costs for land acquisition.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Foreign    Of Base
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange      Cost
-----(Won million)-----       -------(US$'000)-------       ---(%)--   --()--
Dams and Canals                     5,230    4,280    9,510       10,790    8,830   19,620          45         45
Land Development
Conversion of Uplands                850      700    1,550       1,740    1,440    3,180          45          7
Land Consolidation                 1,240    1,010    2,250       2,580    2,070    4,650          45         11
Upland Development                   410      330       740        850       680    1,530         45          4
Furrow Irrigation                    150      130       280        310       270      580         45          1
Orchards                             140      110       250        290       220      510         45          1
Channel Improvement                    380      310       690        780       640    1,420         45          3
Access Roads                           400      320       720        820       660    1,480         45          4
Surveys and Mapping                    120      270       390        250       550      800         70          2
Technical Assistance                    20       50        70         40       100      140         70          -
Vehicles                                10       30        40         20        60       80         70          -
Feasibility Study Stage II             220      220       440        450       460      910         50          2
Right-of-Way                        2,330         0    2,330       4,810         0    4,810          0         11
Engineering & Administration         1,610      300    1,910       3,330       610    3,940         15          9
Base Cost Estimate                  13,110    8,060   21,170      27,060   16,590   43,650          38        100
Physical Contingencies               1,440      860    2,300       2,950    1,800    4,750          38         11   H
Expected Price Increases            7,760    5,140   12,900       15,990   10,610   26,600          40         61  (D
Total Project Cost                 22,310   14,060   36,370       46,000   29,000   75,000          39        172



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Dams and Canals
(US$'000)
Small
Kumwang          Maengdong       Baegkok   Weonnam    Dams   Totals
Dam I  Dam II    Dam I  Dam II
Dams                                390       660    1,450        70       290        570    1,920    5,350
Spillway & Outlet                   210       370       400     180        910        610       930    3,)10
Canals                               -      2,390    2,220      210      2,020      2,450       510    9,800
Road relocation                      50       520       -         70        80        140       -         860
/I
Sub-total                      650    3,940    4,070       530      3,300      3,770    3,360   19,620
Physical contingencies              100       390       610       80       500        570       500    2,750
Land acquisition                    160       360       690     460        660        870       600    3,800
Other compensation                    30       60        90       60        60         50        20       370
Engineering & administration         90       500       470       70       450        520       290    2,390
Total                        1,030    5,250    5,930   1,200        4,970      5,780    4,770   28,930
/1 Estimated assuming US$2,800/ha cost.
tT



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Land Development
Average
Base   Contin-   Engineering &            /   Cost
Type of Development       Area    Slopes   Unit Cost    Cost   gencies   Administration  Total - per ha
(ha)      (%)    (US$/ha)        ---------------(US$ 000)--------------  (US$/ha)
Conversion of              455      0-5        1,300         590       90            70            750    1,645
uplands to paddy       1,340      5-10       1,600      2,140      320            250         2,710    2,025
250    10-15        1,800        450       70            50            570    2,275
Sub-total    2,045                             3,180      480            370         4,030    1,970
Land consolidation       3,800      0-1           950      3,610      540           420          4,570    1,200
800      1-2        1,300      1,040      150           120          1,310    1,645
Sub-total    4,600                             4,650       690           540         5,880    1,280
Upland Development         300      5-10       1,130         340       50            40            430    1,430
(Irrigated)              195    10-15        1,240        240       30             30           300    1,570
Sub-total       495                               580       80            70            730    1,485
Upland Reclamation           80     5-10          930         70       10            10             90    1,175
440    10-15        1,150        510       80            60            650    1,455
680    15-20        1,400        950      140           110          1,200    1,770
Sub-total    1,200                             1,530      230            180         1,940    1,615
Upland Development         550    15-35           930        510       80            60            650    1,180            >
(Orchards)
TOTAL                                         10,450   1,560           1,220        13,230                    w X
/1 Rounded to nearest US$10,000.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Channel Improvement
Construction Cost per km of Levees (US$)
Large Channels            Small Channels
Earthwork                          13,600                      7,200
Slope protection                     4,350                     2,050
Drainage culverts                    1,550                     1,050
Miscellaneous                          300                       200
19,800                    10,500
Right-of-way                        5,150                      2,050
Total Costs (US$'000)
Large channels (40 km)                  790
Small channels (60 km)                  630
Sub-total                  1,420
Physical contingencies                  210
Engineering and administration          160
Sub-total                  1,790
Right-of-way                            330
Total                      2,120
Note:  Material excavated from the channels would be used for construc-
tion of the flood embankments. The above costs include excava-
tion and placing of material.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Village Access Roads
Cost/km                Amount 1/
(US.$)               (US-$ooo)
Earthwork                         2,470                     370
Gravel Surfacing                  2,680                     400
Culverts                          2,890                     430
Bridges                    30 Q U3$ 9,300 each              280
Subtotal                              1,480
Physical Contingencies                  230
Engirneering & Administration           170
Sub-total                      1,880
Right-of-way                             310
Total                      2,190
- Based on 150 km of roads.



ANNEX 4
Table 6
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Us$'ooo
A. Surveys & Mapping
Aerial photography                         80
Map preparation                           370
Ground control                             80
Field surveys                             270
Sub-total                              800
B. Feasibility Study Stage II
Aerial photography and mapping            250
Site investigations                        40
Socioeconomic surveys                      50
Planning & design (ADC)                   250
Planning & design (consultants)           210
Specialist advisors                        60
Vehicle operations                          30
Miscellaneous                              20
Sub-total                              910
Total                                    1,710



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
Calendar Year
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   Total
Civil Works /1                                   -    1,660   9,270  13,420  10,460   7,720  42,530
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                        15       12      12       12      10       10
Expected Price Increases /2                       0     360   3,380   7,100   7,290   6,690  24,820
Services & Equipment /3                         240     940   1,510   1,650       910      620   5,870
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                        10        8       8        8       7        7
Expected Price Increases /                       -      140      350     550      400      340   1,780
Total Expenditures without Price Increases   240   2,600  10,780  15,070  11,370   8,340  48,400
Total Expected Price Increases                   -      500   3,730   7,650   7,690   7,030  26,600
Total Expenditure with Price Increases          240   3,510           22,720  19,060  15,370  75,000
_~~~
/i  Civil works include dams & canals; land development; channel improvement; access roads;
and right-of-way. Civil works cost include price contingencies. See Annex 5, Table 1
for yearly expenditures on each item.
/2  ('la'! ted by compounding rate of price increase in prior years and one-half the rate of
ill  --.s* in the year concerned.
mX
/3                Wipment include surveys and mapping; technical assistance; vehicles; feas-                      4-
ib',1ty sLuilies; and engineering and administration.  See Annex 5, Table 1 for yearly
expenditures of each item.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditure
Total      1976/1   1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
-------------------------(US$000)-------------------------
Dams and Canals                   22,370          -      820    2,920    6,250    6,970    5,410
Land Development                   12,010         -      440    1,880    3,890    3,490    2,310
Channel Improvement                 1,630         -        -       720       910         -         -
Access Roads                        1,710         -        -    1,240        470         -         -
Right-of-Way                       4,810          -      400    2,510    1,900           -         -
Surveys and Mapping                   800       100      200       290       210         -         -
Technical Assistance                  140        40       60        40         -         -         -
Vehicles                               80         -       80         -         -         -         -
Feasibility Studies:  Stage II        910         -      100       270       540         -         -
Engineering and Administration  3,940           100      500       910       900       910       620
Sub-total                     48,400       240    2,600   10,780   15,070   11,370    8,340
Expected Price Increases          26,600          -      500    3,730    7,650    7,690    7_030           a 
E rX
Total Project Cost            75,000       240    3,100   14,510   22,720   19,060   15,370    >
/1   Calendar years, which correspond to Korean financial year.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester            Accumulated Disbursements
--(US$ '000 Equivalent)--
Fiscal Year 1977
1st                                         0
2nd                                       100
Fiscal Year 1978
lst                                       200
2nd                                     1,200
Fiscal Year 1979
1st                                     3,400
2nd                                     7,000
Fiscal Year 1980
1st                                    11,000
2nd                                    16,000
Fiscal Year 1981
1st                                    20,400
2nd                                    23,600
Fiscal Year 1982
1st                                    26,800
2nd                                    29,000



ANNEX 5
Table 3
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Costs            Proposed
Category                                Total     Foreign        Loan
---------(US$ million)--------
I.   Civil Works:
Base Cost /1                       28.50        11.70
Expected Price Increases           19.00         7.80         19.0
Sub-total                     47.50        19.50
Disbursements will be 40% of total expenditures.
II.   Equipment and Materials:
Cement                              2.00         1.00
Steel                               2.50         2.00
Vehicles                            0.08         0.08
Expected Price Increases            3.42         2.42          5.5
,sub-total                     8.00         5.50
Disbursemenit will be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment, h5% of expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and materials.
III.   Consulting Services:
Consultants                         0.14         0.14
Survey and Mapping                  0.80         0.58
Feasibility Study                   0.91         0.46
Expected Price Increases            0.55         0.42           1.6
Sub-total                      2.40         1.60
Disbursements wilL be 100% of foreign expenditures or 65% of local
expenditures.
IV.   Unallocated:
PhysLcal Contingencies              4.75          1.70          2.9
(Right-of-Way)                     (4.81)           -
(E,lgineering and Supervision)     (3.94)       (0.52)
(Expected Price Increases)         (3.60)       (0.18)
Total                         75.00        29.00         29.00
/1 Includes Dan,s and Canals US$19.62 million; Land Development US$10.45 million;
Channel Improvement US$1.42 million; Village Access Roads US$1.48 million;
Less Cement and Steel US$4.5 million.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Agricultural Services
1.        The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) supervises all
agricultural services in Korea. Each provincial government has an Agricul-
ture and Forestry Bureau, which administers MAF functions in the province.
The main agencies which would serve the proposed project, apart from ADC, are
the Office of Rural Development (ORD) and the National Agricultural Coopera-
tive Federation (NACF).
2.        The project area is practically all (96%) within the province of
Chungcheong Bug, with the provincial administration at Cheongju. The
remainder of the project area lies in Gyeonggi province.
Research and Extension
3.        ORD is in charge of research, extension, and training.  The follow-
ing agencies of ORD are located at its headquarters in Suweon, 25 km south of
Seoul:
The ORD Headquarters;
Crop Improvement Station (breeding and agronomy of field crops);
Horticultural Research Institute (vegetables and fruits);
Institute of Plant Environment (soil survey, fertilizers,
liming and pest control);
Guidance Bureau (extension);
Training Burea (for extension workers); and
Farm Machinery Training Center.
The research institutes and the Guidance Bureau are staffed adequately.
4.        Each province has a provincial ORD which carries out local experi-
mentation, field demonstrations, multiplication of foundation seeds and ex-
tension, and each county has five to ten branch offices. Workers in these
offices form the main force of agricultural extension.
5.        The provincial ORD at Cheongju is responsible for research and
extension in the project area. It is well coordinated with the national
research and extension worker training programs at Suweon. Research in the
province is currently aimed at crop yield improvement, earlier maturing
varieties, and disease or insect resistance. Trials or plots at the county
level may be part of a research effort, but usually they are designed to
demonstrate new or proven practices to the farmers. These are useful, well
conducted demonstrations. The experimental and demonstration results are
well documented. Extension pamphlets and posters are adequate for current



ANNEX 6
Page 2
extension needs of irrigated or rainfed rice, rainfed barley and other crops.
The four counties included in the project area have 145 extension workers
to serve about 75,000 hk of farms, averaging about one worker to 500 ha. The
existing extension system works satisfactorily as is evidenced by the rela-
tively high yield levels even under existing rainfed conditions. With the
project, farmers would require guidance in irrigation of barley, and use of
lime on upland areas.
Farmers' Organization
6.        Two types of farmers' organization operate in the project area.
Those associated with irrigation, such as Farm Land Improvement Associations
(FLIA's); and those with credit or input supplies, such as the NACF. Three
FLIA's are already operating in the irrigated areas. They are self-support-
ing, and their responsibilities are:
(a) to operate and maintain irrigation and drainage facilities,
including the collection of 0 & M fees;
(b) through extension and training, to assist members increase
production; and
(c) to carry out land consolidation works and to collect the
repayments on the loans for these works.
With the project, several small irrigation systems would be constructed in
isolated areas. These would be operated by Water User Groups or Hung Nong
Gaes (HNG's). ADC would establish these groups, which may in time become
big enough to form FLIA's, or join with existing FLIA's.
7.        Almost all supplies of inputs and credit originating from Govern-
ment sources are supplied through the cooperative system. It also handles
marketing of a number of crops. Over 90% of project area farmers are mem-
bers of district cooperatives. These primary cooperatives are successively
grouped into county agricultural cooperative federations, which are part of
NACF.
8.        Although NACF is the apex of the rural cooperatives, it actually
functions as a Government trading and banking agency. The president of
NACF is appointed by the President of Korea, and the managers of the pro-
vincial NACF and county cooperatives are in turn appointed by the NACF
President. Not only do the cooperatives serve in channeling Government
supplied inputs and credit to farmers, they also make the farmers' needs
known to the Government.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Fertilizer
9.        Annual fertilizer consumption in the project area is currently
some 2,950 nutrient tons, consisting of 1,370 tons nitrogen; 840 tons phos-
phoric acid; and 740 tons potash. Application rates of all fertilizers
average 0.23 nutrient ton per ha per year. Additionally, 80 tons of lime
are applied to 370 ha each year. Farmers also apply large amounts of com-
post (up to 6 ton/ha) to each rice crop. At full development the project
would require some 5,500 nutrient tons of fertilizer annually, consisting
of 2,520 tons of nitrogen; 1,580 tons of phosphoric acid; and 1,400 tons of
potash. As well, 1,560 tons of lime would be required for uplands crops.
NACF currently supplies all fertilizers through the village cooperative
depots in the project area, and would be able to handle easily the pro-
jected increased demand.
Seed
10.       Approximately 420 tons of rice seed and 170 tons of barley seed
are currently used in the project area. About 95% of the seed is obtained
by retention from the farmers' commercial production, and 5% from seed-
growers. The Chungcheong Bug provincial ORD multiplies foundation seed to
produce registered seed at the ORD seed farm in Cheonju. Selected seed
growers in the villages then use the registered seed to produce certified
seed, which they sell to farmers. Under this system, seed growers multiply
rice, barley, wheat, soybean, and potato seed. While seed supply has not been
a constraint under this system, quality maintenance has been. The Bank is
presently assisting with the establishment of a new national system for
quality seed supply (Loan 942-KO). This would insure future adequate supplies
of quality seeds in the project area. At full development the project would
use approximately 500 tons of rice seed and 520 tons of barley seed per year.
On the assumption that rice and barley seed would be renewed every five
crop seasons, the estimated annual requirement of quality seed at full project
development would be 100 tons rice and 100 tons barley.
Credit
11.       An estimated 15% of project area farmers finance their require-
ments of farm inputs and hired labor from their own resources. The remainder
use credit from the NACF, money lenders, millers or relatives. The NACF
supply approximately 50% of the farmers' production credit needs, providing
six-month loans at 1% interest per month. NACF's annual production loans
in the area amount to some Won 430 million (US$0.9 million). Credit from
other sources is usually much more expensive, with money lenders charging
3%-5% interest per month.
12.       Assuming that at full project development 15% of the farmers would
finance their farm inputs and hired labor requirements from their own resources,
approximately 8,800 farmers would require credit. At a loan level of Won
100,000/ha the total annual credit requirement would be Won 1,070 million



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(US$2.21 million). The NACF project area operations would have to expand by
150% to supply this sum. Administratively there should be no difficulties
in handling the increased volume of credit provided the funds are made avail-
able. Assuming 750 8-10 hp power tillers and 200 15 ton/hr mechanical threshers
are required in the project area, farmers or contractors would need US$2.2
million credit to purchase them.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Cropping Pattern
1.        Situated in the central region of Korea, the project area has a
180-190 day frost-free period. The main crop rice, plus oilseeds, vegetables,
tobacco and red peppers, are grown during the summer. Barley is sown in
autumn, remains dormant during the winter, and is harvested in late spring -
early summer. Of the 12,665 ha to be developed, 8,375 are now sown to rice;
2,455 ha are sown to the minor summer crops; 1,200 ha are forest; and 635 ha
are uncultivated upland. Approximately 3,150 ha of rice are irrigated from
small dams or weirs. The balance of the rice area (5,225 ha) and all other
crops are rainfed. Rice is mainly grown on the valley floors or lowlands,
while the other summer crops are concentrated on the valley slopes or uplands.
Barley (1,820 ha) is grown on both areas, on some 20% of the riceland and 40%
of the upland. The overall project area cropping intensity is 117%. Tables 1
and 2 show the cropping patterns and production estimates at present, and in
future without the project.
2.        Rice is grown between May and October.  Providing sufficient rain
has fallen, or irrigation is available, farmers transplant in the second and
third weeks of June. If transplanting is delayed, rice yields are reduced.
The longer the delay, the greater the yield reduction and interference of
late rice harvesting with barley sowing. All rice is transplanted from
field nurseries onto previously puddled land. Harvesting is usually in late
September - October. Other summer crops are sown March to May, with some
double cropping of vegetables possible. Barley is sown after the rice as
soon as the seedbed is dry enough for preparation (mid-October to mid-November).
Harvesting is in late May or the first half of June.
3.        Rice HYV's are sown on 40% of the irrigated area, compared to 10%
of the rainfed area. The average yield for all varieties of rice is about 3.1
ton/ha of polished rice (assuming a 68% milling percentage) under irrigation,
and 2.7 ton/ha under rainfed conditions. Regular or common barley seed is
sown, with an average yield of 2.0 ton/ha. Soybeans and sesame are the most
important oilseed crops grown, while the vegetables crops are mainly white
potato, sweet potato and chinese cabbage. Other crops of importance are red
peppers and tobacco. The forest and uncultivated upland produce fuelwood.
Table 5 gives all present and future crop yields.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Future Cropping Pattern
4.        Without the project, varietal improvement and better pest control
would increase most crop yields (Table 2). The percentage of rice HYV's
would increase to 80% on irrigated land and 20% on rainfed. Irrigated rice
yields would average 3.9 ton/ha; rainfed rice 2.9 ton/ha. Due to greater
government extension efforts, 950 ha of barley grown on presently irrigated
rice land would be irrigated. Irrigated barley would average 2.4 ton/ha
and rainfed barley 2.2 ton/ha. Barley areas would also increase on both
the rice land and upland to lift overall cropping intensity to 126% in the
project area.
5.        Table 3 shows the expected changes in cropping pattern and produc-
tion with the project. Some 8,315 ha would be provided with irrigation in-
creasing the net irrigated area to 11,465 ha. In doing this, about 2,045 of
cultivated uplands would be developed for paddy production; 4,600 ha of rice
lands consolidated; 550 ha of uncultivated upland developed for orchards;
and 495 ha of cultivated upland developed for furrow irrigation. Irrigated
rice would be grown on a net 10,420 ha; irrigated red peppers, tobacco and
vegetables on a net 550 ha. Rainfed upland production would be on a net
1,200 ha, developed from forest land. On the irrigated area, a second vege-
table crop and barley would increase the cropping intensity to 137% per year.
On the rainfed area, a barley crop would increase the cropping intensity to
145%. The overall project area cropping intensity would be 138%.
Future Yields
6.        With good water control, adequate supplies of credit, inputs and
extension service, estimated future crop yields under irrigation would
average:  polished rice, 4.5 ton/ha;1/ barley 2.6 ton/ha; red peppers, 1.5
ton/ha; tobacco, 2.5 ton/ha; vegetables, 23.6 ton/ha; 2/ and orchards, 35.6
ton/ha. 3/ The projected yields would be achieved five years after the in-
troduction of water, or completion of land consolidation on areas already
irrigated. Rainfed crop yields would be similar to those projected for the
future without the project.
7.        With irrigation, improved crop yields would be assisted by the use
of the most suitable varieties; better land preparation through greater use
of machinery; heavier fertilizer inputs; and greater expenditure on crop pro-
tection and weed control. Rice HYV's would spread to 90% of the rice area
1/   Composite rice yield for 4,600 ha consolidated at 4.8 ton/ha; 5,822Q ha
non-consolidated at 4.2 ton/ha.
2/   Composite vegetable yield for 30% of area white potato at 20 ton/ha;
70% of area chinese cabbage at 25 ton/ha.
3/   Composite orchard yield for 70% of area apples at 40 ton/ha; 30%
of area pear at 25 ton/ha.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(100% of land-consolidated area; 80% of rest). Land consolidation would
allow a greater use of machinery, and channel improvement would reduce
possible flood losses. The improved village roads would allow better
access from villages to market, thus facilitating the inflow of inputs and
outflow of produce.
8.        At full project development estimated rice production would average
46,500 tons, an increment of 19,500 tons over estimated future production
without the project.  Similarly, estimated barley production would be
12,500 tons, an increment of 6,090 tons; and upland crops, 36,800 tons, an
increment of 20,800 tons.
Development Constraints
9.        The project would bring an increased cropping intensity; a 30%
increase in labor requirement; an increase in mechanized land preparation and
threshing; and a demand for more fertilizer, agro-chemicals, and facilities
for drying, storage and processing. The most important issues are examined
briefly.
10.       Cropping Calendar.  Chart No. 15824 shows the typical annual crop-
ping activities in the project area. Two critical periods occur during the
cropping season. The first is in June, when barley has to be harvested so
that rice can be transplanted; the second in October, when rice must be
harvested as quickly as possible so that barley can be sown early enough to
be established well before the onset of heavy frosts. With irrigation, both
the rice and barley crops can be planted at the correct time, thus avoiding
yield reductions due to late plartting, and interference with the following
crop. Land consolidation would also improve drainage on ricelands, thus
increasing the area which can be double cropped to barley.
11.       Labor Availability.  The labor supply is at present a constraint
during the "barley harvesting-rice transplanting," and "rice harvesting-
barley planting" periods. With the project, the increased cropping inten-
sity and production would substantially increase annual labor demand. In
addition, the number of agricultural workers in the area has been declining
over recent years. Land consolidation, which would facilitate mechanization
of land preparation, threshing and hauling, would help to offset this problem.
In addition, rice and barley varieties are being bred for earlier maturity.
This would increase the time available at the critical harvest and planting
periods, thus easing peak labor demands.
12.       Mechanization.  About 10% of land preparation is now done by power
tiilers, the balance by animal drawn implements. There are few four-wheel
tracror,s  ailable.  With land consolidation, improved water management,
and bet'-er access to fields under the project, power tillers and some four-
wheel trat.c -  tbould be used for an estimated 70% of rice land preparation;
80%-90% of r     'c ov and 100% of other upland crop land preparation.  Rice and
barley are cu 'v iiad and either stacked in the fields awaiting threshers,



ANNEX 7
Page 4
carried to threshers or threshed by hand in the field. At present, 25% of
rice and barley are mechanically threshed with the drum-loop type. These
are usually linked with the power take-off on the power tiller. The use of
the power threshers is rapidly increasing and it is estimated that 70% of
rice and 90% of the barley would be threshed mechanically in the future. The
use of machine powered sprayers is also increasing rapidly, and this is
expected to continue in the future.
13.       Drying, Storage and Processing.  Farmers have sufficient sun drying
areas in their villages or at their farms to handle the present crops. These
can be easily expanded for the expected production increase. On the other
hand, farmers have limited rice and barley storage capacity. NACF has some
warehouses in the project area, but plans to build more under a national
warehouse building program. NACF's planned storage capacity would be suffi-
cient to handle the expected production increases in the project area. Rice
and barley mills are mainly privately owned, and have sufficient capacity
to handle the present crop.  However, additional milling capaciLy would be
required at full project development. This would be provided either by the
private sector, or by the Government through the NACF.
Marketing
14.       Over 90/ oi Froject areas farmers belong to district or county co-
operatives, and thus can sell their surplus produce through the NACF. Never-
theless, most farmers sell to private traders. These traders are usually
small scale with inadequate financing and deficient facilities. The market
channels are diverse and frequently include many middlemen. Government policy
is to improve marketing channels by means of increased financial support for
the cooperative orgarniAations, particularly NACF. The government role in
marketing is of considerable importance because it is involved in the imple-
mentation of price policy ior farm inputs and produce, the encouragement of
exports and the procurement of farm produce for government use. NACF pre-
sently markets some 25% of agricultural produce. The Government plans to
increase this percentage in the future, and to increase the range of NACF's
marketing services, including modernizing processing and storage facilities.



KOREA
MTIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present Production from Project Area
Gross Value              1/  Net Value        Net Return
Farm Gate          of         Production         of              from
Area     Yield        Price        Production        Cost        Production    Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)  (Won'OOO/ton) -----(Won'OOO/ha)------   (Won million)
Irrigated:
Rice                             3,150       3.1           266             825         136              689            2,170
Rainfed:
Rice                             5,225       2.7           266             718         132              586            3,062
Barley  /                        1,820       2.0           131             262          91              171              311
Red Pepper                         170      1.3         1,215            1,580         153            1,427              243
Tobacco                            200       2.1           784           1,646         198            1,448              290
Oil Seeds 3/                     1,230       0.7           266             186          44              142              175
Vegetables-4/                      860      15.2            50             760         160              600              516
Uncultivated Forest 5/           1,835       2.5            13              33          -                33               61
Sub-total                 11,340                                                                                 4,658
Total                     14,490                                                                                 6,828
6/
Cropping Intensity = 117%
1/ Based on Annex 8, Table 1; excludes cost of labor.
/ Barley is grown during winter on 10% of lowland and on 40% upland.
3/ Includes by area soybeans 70%; sesame 30%.                                                                                 CD
4/ Includes by area white potato 28%; sweet potato 34%; chinese cabbage 38%.
5/ Forest produces fuel wood.
/ Based on a net~ cultivable area of 10,830 ha (riceland 8,375 ha; upland 2,455 ha),
but not incluuding forest.



KOREA
IIHO WATERPiHE;D AREA DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
Pro~ected Production Wfithout the Project
Gross Valie                  Net Value      Net Return
Farm Gate                   Productiorr      of             from
Area      Yield        Price      Production         Cost      Production   Project Area
(ha)    (ton/ha)  (Won '00/ton) - -(Won'GOO/ha)----                    -    (Won million)
Irrigated
Rice                          3,150        3.9           232         905             124           781          2,46
Barley/                         95        2.4           131          314             87           227            216
Sub-total                4,100                                                                              2,676
Rainfe d
t--E. Re                     5,225        2.9           232          675            118           555          2,900
BaTA.ey 1/                   1,890         2.2          131          288              81           207            391
Red Pepper                      170       1.3         1,21         I  Po             125         1,455            247
Tobacco                         200       2.1            78)1       1,646            168        1,478             296
Oil Seeds g/                  1,?30       0.9            288         25Q              40           219            269
Vegetables J                    860      16.6             50          830            132           698            600
Uncultivated 7' rest 4/          1         2.5            13           3              -             33             61
Sut-  tal              1,410                                                                              4,764
Tvta'                  15,510                                                                              7, hhO
Crupning Intensity    126%
FV Pr-d on Annex 8, Table 2; excludes cost of labor.
?/ Includes by area soybeans 70%; sesame 30%.
9j  Includes by area white potato 28%; sweet potato 34%; chinese cabbage 38%.
L  Forest produces fuel wood.
5j/  Based on a net cultivable area of 10,830 ha (riceland 8,375 -ia; upland 2,455 ha),
but not including forest.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Future Production Wiith the Project at Full Development
Gross Value                 /  Net Value          Net Returns
Farm Gate         of          Production         of                from
Area      Yield        Price       Production          Cost        Production       Project Area
(ha)     (tonJha) (Won'000/ton)  ---------------(Won 000/ha)-------------          (Won million)
Irrigated
Rice                      10,420       4.5           232        1,044             143             901             9,388
Barley                    4,245         2.6           131           341           101              240             1,019
Red Peppers                 100         1.5         1,215        1,823             144          1,679                168
Tobacco                     100         2.5           784        1,960            191           1,769                177
Vegetables  /               375        23.6            45        1,062            185              877               329
Orchard  /                  55_        35.6           114        4,058             800           3,258             1 792
Sub-total            15,790                                                                                  12,T 73
Rainfed
Barley  /                   600         2.4           131           314             99             215               129
Red Peppers                 145         1.3         1,215        1,580             136          1,444                209
Tobacco                      50         2.1           784        1,646            174           1,472                 74
Oil Seeds i                 540         0.9           302           272             51             221               119
Vegetables g                410        17.0            52           884            113             771               316
Sub-total             1,745                                                                                      847
Total                17,535                                                                                  13,720
Cropping Intensity       138%
1/  Based on Annex 8, Table 3; excludes cost of labor.
/  Composite rice yield of 4.8 ton/ha on 4,600 ha consolidated; 4.2 ton/ha on 5,820 ha non-consolidated.
/  Includes by area white potato 30%; chinese cabbage 70%.
i Includes by area apples 70%; pears 30%.
i   Includes by area soybeans 65%; sesame 35%.
6/  Includes by area white potato 20%; sweet potato 60%; chinese cabbage 20%.                                                    m
/  Based on a net cultivable area of 12,665 ha (riceland 10,420 ha; upland 2,245).



ANNEX 7
Table 4
KOREA
'4H0 WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
bSumary of Cropping Pattern & Production
Cropped Area              Crop Production_/
Present     Future          Present    Future
---     ha --------         ------ton)------
Irrigated
Rice                              3,150      10,420           9,800      46,900
Barley                             -          4,245            -         11,000
Red Pepper                         -            100            -            200
Tobacco                            -            100            -            300
Vegetable                          -            375            -          8,900
Orchard                            -            550            -        19,600
Sub-total                       3,150     T5,790
Rainfed
Rice                              5,225       --             14,100        -
Barley                            1,820         600           3,600       1,400
Red Pepper                          170         145             200         200
Tobacco                             200          50             400         100
Oil Seed                          1,230         540             900         500
Vegetable                           860         410          13,100       7,000
Uncultivated Forest               1,835        -              4,600        _
Sub-total.                     11,340       1,745
Total                            14,490      17,535
Cropping Intensiti2                    117%        138%
1/ Production rounded to nearest 100 ton.
2/  For net cultivable area, see Tables 1 and 3.



ANNEX 7
Table 5
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present and Projected Yields
Yields (tons/ha)
Future               Future
Crops                     Present       Vlithout Pro,ject     'iith Project
NI       I        NI         I         NI          I
Traditional Rice             2.7      3.0      2.8        3.3        -         3.5
HYV Rice                     3.1      3.4      3.3        3.8         -        4.4  (4.8)2/
Barley                       2.0       -       2.2         -        2.2        2.4  (2.8)j/
Oil Crops:
Soybeans                  0.8      -        1.0         -        1.0        1.3
Sesame                    0.5      -        0.6         -         .6        0.8
Vegetable Crops:
White potato             12.0       -      14.0         -       14.0       20.0
Sweet potato             17.0       -      18.0         -       18.0       25.0
Chinese cabbage          16.0      -       17.0         -       17.0       25.0
Red Pepper                   1.2      -        1.3         -        1.3        1.6
Tobacco                      2.0      -        2.1         -        2.1        2.5
Apples                       -         -       -           -         -        40.0
Pears                        -         -       -           -         -        25.0
Forest                       2.5 3/   -        2.5 3/      -         -         -
(All rice and barley yields are on polished basis)
1/ NI = non-irrigated, I = irrigated.
2/ With land consolidation.
2/ Tons of fuelwood per year.
Note:  Yields for oil and vegetables crops appearing in Table 1,             are
weighted averages combined from the above individual crop ,



ANNEX 8
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        Annex 7 contains the existing and proposed cropping patterns.
This annex shows:
(a)   Production costs for irrigated and rainfed crops at present
and in the future "with" and "without" the project (Tables 1-3).
Present production costs are based on the results of surveys
conducted by OWD, and interviews in the area during appraisal.
In the future without the project, fertilizer inputs would
increase moderately (6% to 10%), and agro-chemical use con-
siderably (20% to 60%). Mechanization would be introduced to
rice and barley crop land preparation, and the mechanical
threshing of these crops would increase. Future input levels
for "with project" conditions are based on recommendations by
the Office of Rural Development, and observed shifts to
mechanized cultivation, threshing and input-output hauling
when irrigation and land consolidation are provided. Table 4
shows assumed input quantities used in the present and future
situations:
(b)   Crop budgets for the present and for the future "with" and
"without" the project (Table 5). Prices used for rice, barley
and tobacco are actual government purchase prices. As prices
for other crops are subject to severe seasonal fluctuation,
prices used were an average of farm gate prices over 1970-75
adjusted for inflation; and
(c)   Farm budgets for typical family farms of 0.5 ha, 1.5 ha and
2.5 ha (Table 6). The budgets are calculated according to
cash flows. Labor costs include only hired labor, not farm
family labor, and were determined by calculating the excess
of total monthly labor requirements over an estimated 45 man-
days of family labor per farm per month. Hired farm labor
is costed at Won 1,600 per day. At present the entire area
of small farms (0.5 ha) is under cultivation, and consisting
of 80% riceland and 20% upland. The 1.5 ha and 2.5 ha farms
include some forest or uncultivated upland (near 20%) about
60% riceland and 20% cultivated upland. With the project, the
0.5 ha farms would be entirely under irrigation, while the
1.5 ha and 2.5 ha farms would have irrigation facilities for
nearly 90% of their net cultivable area. The remaining 10%



ANNEX 8
Page 2
would be rainfed. Uncultivated forest suitable for develop-
ment, would be brought into production for upland crops. In
addition, the 0.5 ha farm would have slightly higher cropping
intensities than the 1.5 ha and 2.5 ha farms. With the project,
farmers would pay full 0 & M costs, estimated at Won 27,650
(US$57)/ irrigated ha. They would also repay part of the pro-
ject's capital costs; calculated for irrigation works as 30% of
capital costs over 35 years at 3.5% interest per year, with an
initial five-year grace period followed by 30 years of repayments;
and for upland reclamation as 30% of capital costs over eight
years at 9% interest per year. Farmers also pay taxes on rice-
land equivalent to 6% of gross value of production after deduct-
ing 1.4 ton of foodgrain, and on upland,6% of gross value of
production after deducting Won 85,000 per ha.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Present!'
Rice                              Barley               Oil Seeds             YVgetab?es             Red Pepper              Tobacco              Forest
Cash Inputs (Won'OOO/ha)2/                  Rainfed              Irrigated                  Rainfed              Rainfed                  Rainfee Rainfed                             i     d              Rainfed
Cultivation                               23.8                  23.8                       8.4                  9.8                     12.6                   11.2                 14.0
Seed                                       9.0                   8.8                       9.0                  6.3                     45.6                   18.0                 20.0
Fertilizer                                75.5   (37.8)         78.1   (39.0)             64.5  (33.0)         21.6  (10.0)             72.0   (34.9)          94.0   (46.7)        83.3   (41.8)           -
Agro-Chemicals                            10.2   (10.0)         10.2   (10.0)              -       -            3.1   (3.0)              9,2    (9.0)          12.3   (12.0)        15.3   (15.0)            -
Harvesting                                  5.4                  6.2                       3.3   (3.6)          -       -                -        -             -        -          30.0
Other                                       8.1                  8.9                       5.8                  3.2                     20.6                   17.5                 35.4
Interest 3/                                       (11.9)                (12.3)                    (7.2)                (4.7)                    (16.3)                 (14.6)               (16.8)
Total Cash Inputs                   132.0  (106.0)       136.0  (109.0)             91.0  (67.0)         44.0  (37.0)             160.0  (139.0)        153.0  (120.0)        198.0  (173.0)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land Preparation                                   28                    28                       20                   22                       24                      26                    26
Planting                                           24                    24                        6                    5                       32                       6                   38
Crop Management                                    33                    35                       40                   27                       55                      96                   51             -
Harvesting                                         40                    43                       44                   46                       34                      67                   160            8
Total Labor Inputs                           125                  130                      110                  100                       145                    195                   275             8
1/  Economic prices for use in economic analysis, and based on world market prices for rice, barley, soybean, tobacco and fertilizer.  Figures in parentheses are
financial prices for use in farm budgets.   See Annex 10, Table I for individual prices used.
2/  See Table 4 for physical input assumptions.
3!   Interest @ 2.5% /month on production credit for 6 months.  Production credit needs calculated as 90% (cash inputs - harvesting costs).



KOREA
1IHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Future Without Project
2/                      Rice                                    Barley                      Oil Seeds         Vegetables        Red Pepper          Tobacco             Forest
Cash Inputs (Won'OOO/ha)                Rainfed            Irrigated            Rainfed            Irrigated            Rainfed           Rainfed           Rainfed             Rainfed            Rainfed
Cultivation                            25.4               Z5.4                11.3                12.4                 9.8               12.6               11.2                14.0                -
Seed                                    7,7    (9.0)       7.6    (8.9)        9.0               11.0                  6.3               45.6               18.0               20.0                 -
Fertilizer                             46.4   (40.0)    50.1   (43.2)         41.0  (35.5)       40.6  (35.0)         16.5  (14.1)       43.0   (37.0)    61.2    (53.0)    50.3   (43.7)           -
Agro-Chemicals                         17.0   (16.6)    15.7   (15.4)           5.1   (5.0)        7.2   (7.0)         3.4   (3.3)        9.8    (9.6)       15.3   (15.0)      18.4   (18.0)       -
Harvesting                             10.1   (11.6)      13.6   (15.6)        7.2   (8.0)         7.9   (6.7)         -       -          -        -          -        -        30.0      -         -
Other                                  11.4               11.6                  7.4                7.9                 4.0               21.0                19.3               35.3                -
Interest 3/                                    (11.0)             (12.9)              (8.8)             (10.0)                (5.5)              (16.2)             (15.5)              (18.0)      -
Total Cash Inputs               118.0  (125 0)   124.0  (133.0)          81.0  (85.0)       87.0  (92.0)        40.0  (43.0)      132.0  (142.0)   125.0  (132.0)   168.0  (179.0)             -
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land Preparation                                26                 26                  14                 14                  22                  24                  26                 26          -
Planting                                        24                 24                  6                   6                   5                  32                   6                 38         -
Crop Management                                 35                 37                 42                 42                   27                  54                  96                 51          -
Harvesting                                      35                 38                 38                  38                  46                  40                  67                160          8
Total Labor Inputs                       120                125                 100                100                 100                  150                195                275          8
1/ See footnote No. 1, Table 1.
2/ See footnote No. 2, Table 1.
3/  See footnote No. 3, Table 1.                                                                                                                                                                         i



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
1/
Crop Production Coats: Future With Project at Full D-veIopoent
2t           Eice                         Borley                        Oil Seeds                   Vegetebles                                 ied Pepper                               Tobacco                         Orchard
Cash Ipcuts (Won'000/ha)              Irrigated             Rainfed            Irrigated            Rtinfed             Rainfed            Irrigated             Rainfed            Irrigated             Rainfed             irrigated            Irrigated
Cultivation                          27.9                18.0                 19.0                20.0                 20.0               20.0                  20.0               20.0                  20.0                20.0                 14.0
Seed                                  7.8    (9.2)        9.0                 11.0                 6.2                 35.9               50.6                  18.0               18.0                  20.0                20.0                   -
Fertili.er                           56.7   (48.6)       42.1   (36.6)        43.3   (37.4)       17.2  (14.9)         31.0   (26.8)    63.9   (54.9)           61.2   (53.0)      65.4   (56.7)         50.3   (43.7)       58.3   (50.9)        86.0   (76.0)
Agro-Chelca-l                       15.5   (15.2)       10.2   (10.0)         7.2    (7.0)         3.1   (3.0)         8.2    (8.0)    21.5   (21.1)           15.3   (15,0)      18.4   (18i0)         18.4   (18.0)       22.5   (22.0)       240.0  (235;0)
Ha ronti.g                           21.9   (25.1)        11.0   (12.1)       11.9   (13.2)         -                                                                                                    30.0                34.0                300.0
Other                                13.2                  8.7                 8.6                 4.5                 17.9               29.0                  21.5               22.2                  35.3                36.2                 16.0
Interet                                      (14.8)              (10.6)               (10.8)              (6.4)                (14.4)             (23.4)                (17.5)      (_818.)                        8.0               (20.9)                (65.0)
Tetai Cash Inputs             143.0  (154.0)        99.0  (105.0)      101.0  (107.0)        51.0  (55.0)       113.0  (123.0)   185.0  (199.0)          136.0  (145.0)    144.0  (153.0)         174.0  (185.0)   191.0  (204.0)           800.0  (850.0)
Labor Inputs (-sn-days/ha)
Land Preparation                              23                    8                   8                  10                   12                 12                    14                  14                    14                 14                    20
Planting                                      24                    6                   6                   5                   32                 32                     6                   6                   38                  40
Crop Managensent                              35                  40                   40                 27                    56                 86                   100                140                     53                 61                   100
H rvesting                                    38                  36                   36                 48                    45                 50                    75                  80                  170                 185                   240
Total Labor Iopot.                      120                  90                  90                  90                  145                 180                  195                 240                   275                300                   360
1/ See footnote No. 1, Table 1.
2/  See f.. ,teote No. 2, Table 1.
3/ See footnote No. 3, Table 1.



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs
Rice                      Barley                Oil Seeds          Vegetables                Orchard              Red Pepper                     Tobacco
Inputs/ha                        Rainfed       Irrigated       Rainfed      Irrigated       Rainfed       Rainfed      Irrigated       Irrigated       Rainfed       Irrigated       Rainfed      Irrigated
Present:
Cultivation: - Mechanical 1/  7               -              -             -%
- Animal 2/        7           100            100           100                           100          1oo                                           100                          100
Seed:  kg                                      50             49            90                            29          -                                             _
Fertilizer: kg  nutrient -  N                 117            121           110                            26          115                                           160                           90
- P                72            75             50                           30            70                                           80                           110
-  K               61            63             50                           27            78                                           70                           100
Compost:  kg                                6,000         6,000          6,000                           _          2,000                                        6,000                         6,000
Lime:  kg                                     -              -             -                             -            -                                             200                          200
Threshing: - Mechanical 3/  %                  25             25            25                           -            -
- Manual           7.              75            75             75                          100           100                                          100                           100
Future Without Project
Cultivation: - Mechanical   5.                 25             25            25             25            -            -
- Animal        %               75             75             75            75            100           100                                          100                          100
Seed:  kg                                      49             46            90            110             29          -                                            -                             _
Fertilizer: kg  nutrient -  N                 124            136           115            120             35          125                                           170                           95
-  p               77            83             60             60             39           64                                           90                           110
-  K               67            73             55             60            39            70                                          110                           120
Compost:  kg                                6,000         6,000          6,000          4,000            900        4,100                                        6,000                         6,000
Lime:  kg                                     -              -             -              -              -            -                                             200                          200
Threshing: - Mechanical        7               50             50             50            50            -            -
- Manual           7               50            50             50             50           100           100                                          100                           100
Future With Project
Cultivation: - Mechanical   7.                                66            80             90            100          100            100                            100            100           100            100
- Animal        %                              34             20            10                          -                     -              -                             -              -
Seed:  kg                                                     47            90            110             28                         -                              -              -             -              -
Fertilizer: kg  nutrient -  N                                155           115            125             35            93           178             210            170            190            95            110
-  p                            103             60             63             38           40           108             100              90            90            110            120
-  K                             84             55             63            38            50           115              155           110             85            120            150
Compost:  kg                                              4,500          6,000          5,200            -          3,600          3,900           9,000         6,000          6,000          6,000          6,000
Lime:  kg                                                    -             200            -              300           -             100           2,000            200            500           200            500
Threshing: - Mechanical        %                              70            90             90                   -             -              -                      -              -              -             -
- Manual           7.                            30             10             10           100           100           100              100            100           100            100            100
1/ Complete mechanical preparation for riceland Won 30,000/ha; other crops Won 20,000/ha.
2/  hiring cost Won 1,400/animal day.
3/ Mechanical threshing charge by quantity paddy 37.; barley 5%.                                                                                                                                                  H>
01E



KOREA
MIHO WATERSUED  RIA DEIXlOMENT PROJECT
1/
Crop Budgets
Rice                   Barley           Oil Seeds         Vegetables              Red Pepper                  Tobacco            Orchard    Forest
Rainfed   Irrigated    Rainfed   Irrigated    Rainfed    Rainfed   Irrigated    Rainfed   Irrigated   Rainfed    Irrigated    Irrigated    Rainfed
Present
Yield (ton/ha)                                                  2,7          3.1         2.0                       0.7        15.2                      1.3                      2.1                                    2.5
Farm-gate Price (Won'000/ton)                                   266          266         145                       300          50                   1,215                       630                                     13
Gross Value of Production (Won'000/ha)                          718          825         290                       210         760                   1,580                     1,323                                     33
Production Costs, Excluding Labow (Non'000/ha)                  106          109          67                        37         139                      120                      173
Net Value of Production, Exclusdiog Labor (Won'000/ha)    612                716         223                       173         621                    1,460                    1,150                                     33
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                                125          130         110                       tOO         145                      195                      275                                      8
Future Without Project
Yield (ton/ha)                                                  2. 9         3.9         2. 2         2.4          0.9        16.6                      1.3                      2.1                                    2.5
Farx.gate Price (Won'OOO/ton)                                   266         266          145          145          301          50                   1,215                       630                                     13
Gross Value of Production (Won'OOO ha)                         771       1,037          319          348          271         830                    1.580                    1,323                                     33
Production Costs, Excluding Labor (gon'O0O/ha)                  125         133           85           92           43         142                     132                       179
Net Value of Production, Excluding Labor (Won'000/ha)    646                904          234          256          228        688                    1,448                     1,144                                     33
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                                120          125         100          100          100         150                      195                      275                                      8
Future With Project
Yield (ton/ha)                                                              4.5          2.4          2. 6         0.9        17.0       23.6           1.3        1.5           2.1          2.5         35.6
Farm.gate Price (Won'000/ton)                                               266          145          145          331          52         45        1,215       1,215           630         630           114
Gross Value of Production (Won'000/ha)                                    1,197          348          377          298         884      1,062        1,580       1,823         1,323       1,575         4,058
Production Costs, Excluding Labor (Won'000/ha)                              154          105          107           55         123        199           145        153           I85         204           850
Net Value of Production, Excluding Labor (Won'000/ha)                     1,043          243          270          243        761         863        1,435       1,670         1,138       1,371         3,208
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)                                             120          90           90           90         145        180           195        240           275          300          360
1/ Financial costs and prices are used, based on Table 1.



KOREA
MIRO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
0.5 ha Farm                                  1.5 ha Farm                                   2.5 ha Farm
Present              Future j!               Present               Future                  Present               Future
W Project      W Project                     W Project      W Project                      H Project      V Project
Cropped Area - Rice              (ha)                0.4           0.4            0.4            0.93          0.93           1.24             1.57          1.57           2.08
- Barley           (ha)                0.1           0.1            0.2            0.20          0.35           0.56             0.33          0.58           0.93
- Upland           (ha)   _/          0.1           0.1             0.1            0.57          0.57           0.26             0.93          0.93           0.42
Total                       (ha)               0.6           0.6            0.7             1.70          1.85           2.06            2.83          3.08            3.43
Cropping Intensity                (M)                120           120            140             113           123            137              113           123            137
Crop Production - Rice           (kg)             1,140          1,310          1,800           2,650         3,050          5,580           4,480          5,160          9,360
- Barley        (kg)               200           240            520              400           780          1,440              660         1,300          2,390
- Upland        (kg)             1,120         1,220          1,720            2,090         2.240          3,040           3,260         3,490           5,200
Cross Value of Production   (ron'000) 3/             428           483            678             929         1,106          1,918            1,543         1,841          3,191
Production Costs              (-Won'OOO)              64            75            103             137           175            285              227           290            475
(Excluding Labor)
Hired Labor                   (Won'000) 4/           -             -              -               -             -               26               56            66            192
Taxes                         (Won000) 3/             1             2             13              28            39              88              65            83            164
Farm Income                   (Won'000)              363           406            562             764           892          1,519            1,195         1,402          2,360
(Before Project Charges)
Water Charges                 (Won'000)                4             4             14                8             8             35              13            13              58
Debt Service                  (Won 000)                4             4             18               8             8              55 6/           13            13             90 71
Net Fanm Income               (Won'000)              355           398            530             748           876          1,429            1,169         1,346          2,212
Total Labor Requirements    (man-days)                79            77             87             181           190            239              301           315            396
Income from Non-Farming
Activities                  (Won'000)               65            65             60              50            50             45               35            35             30
Total Income                  (Won'000)             420            463            590             798           926          1,474            1,204         1,381          2,242
1/ W = Future without project;
W = Future with project.
2/ The uplaud cropping pattern would vary by farm; however, as calculated for the 1.5 ha farm, an average situation would be:
U Project          W Project
Rainfed       Rainfed      Irrigated
(ha)          (ha)        (ha)
Red Pepper                0.02          0.02          0.01
Tobacco                   0.02          0.01             -
Mi1seed                   0.18          0.08             -
Vcgetable                 0.08          0.06          0.08
F,rest                   0.27              -             -
3/  Based on Tables 1--3 ,no 5K
4/  Based on a maximum 4'. iuaT-days/monLh of family labor.
5/  Taxes on riceland - 6% of gross value of production, after deducting 1.4 ton of foodgrain,
on upland   - 6% of gross value of production, after deducting Won 85,000/ha.                                                                                            En
6/  Repayment on irrigation facilities Won 40,000; on upland reclamation Won 7,000.
7/  Repayment on irrigation facilities Won 65,000; on upland reclamation Won 12,000.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Recovery
1.        The annex examines the implications for public revenues and farmer's
incomes of the government's policies towards the recovery of the capital and
recurrent costs of the irrigation and upland reclamation components. In
determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of project charges
to benefits, two indices have been used, which are defined as follows for
the present project:
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of the present worth of incre-
mental water charges paid by project farmers to present worth
of incremental project construction and operation and mainte-
nance costs; and
(b) Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of the present worth of incre-
mental water charges and taxes paid by a typical farm family to
the present worth of incremental "project rent" accruing to the
family before paying water charges, where "project rent" is
defined as net incremental income less the value of family labor,
returns to management and incremental investments, and allowances
for uncertainty.
The upper limit of the rent recovery index is 100%, but it would normally be
less than that because of political difficulties, tax disincentives, and costs
of collecting taxes. Rent is a difficult concept to measure in practice,
but an attempt is made to determine reasonable quantitative estimates of
its various components based on qualitative considerations.
2.        All water charges, costs and benefits are measured at present
values discounted at 10% annual rate of interest over the 35 year evalua-
tion period, and in terms of 1976 constant prices. Costs and benefits
represent financial flows and in determining the cost recovery index,
project capital costs are net of taxes. To allow for inflation, in cal-
culating both indices the annual debt service payments are reduced by 7%
per year.
3.        Korea has a well established system of water charges applying
to Government constructed irrigation projects. Beneficiaries must pay full
annual 0 & M costs, plus 30% of actual project construction costs at 3.5%
interest over 35 years. The repayment period includes five years grace,
then 30 years of repayment.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        In the cost recovery analysis, US$31.1 million construction costs
are charged against the irrigation component. Annual 0 & M costs are
Won 27,650 (US$57)/ha. The present value of construction and 0 & M costs,
discounted at 10%, is US$25.2 million. At full project development, incre-
mental water charges total US$2.0 million per year. Discounted at 10%, their
total net present value is US$9.1 million, giving a 36% cost recovery index.
5.        For upland reclamation, the official Government policy is to re-
cover 30% of capital cost over eight years at 9% interest including a three
year grace period. At a 10% discount rate, the proposed terms imply a cost
recovery index of 41%. While the rate of return for upland reclamation is
higher than for irrigation (Annex 10), the risk of crop loss is also higher
than on irrigated areas (upland areas fully dependent on rainfall). The pro-
posed cost recovery charges, therefore, are satisfactory for this component.
6.        In the rent recovery analysis, three farm sizes, 0.5 ha, 1.5 ha
and 2.5 ha, are used to represent small, average and large farms. Farm
budget data (Annex 8, Tables 5 and 6) are used to derive the net incremental
income due to the project for each farm size. Production taxes are 6% of
the gross value of grain production in excess of 1.4 ton/farm on riceland;
and 6% of the gross value of production after a deduction of Won 85,000/ha
on upland. Due to insufficient data, other taxes, such as import duties
and sales tax, have not been considered.
7.        In deciding project rent, farm depreciation was calculated at 5%
of the incremental capital cost for equipment; 3% for buildings; and 2%
for land development works. Incremental family labor was valued at Won 1,450
per man-day, while the value of the farmers' management was valued at 10% of
gross incremental income. The return on the farmers' own investment was
calculated at 10% of its market value, while an uncertainty al:)wance of 20%
of gross incremental was assumed for the three farms. Under these assump-
tions, and discounting incremental project rent and project charges at 10%
over the 35-year evaluation period, rent recovery varied from 27% for the 0.5
ha farm to 18% for the two larger farms. If the interest rate is lifted from
3.5% to 9.0Z per year on the capital repayments for irrigation works, the
rent recovery increases to about 36% for the 0.5 ha farm and 24% for the
other two farms (Table 1).
8.        Rent recovery is higher for the 0.5 ha farm compared to the larger
farms since although the unit development cost is approximately the same
for all farms, and correspondingly so is the amount of capital repayment per
developed ha, the percentage income increase is much greater on the 1.5 ha
and 2.5 ha farms compared to the 0.5 ha farm.
9.        The rent recovery calculations are imprecise for the following
reasons:
(a) information is meager on land use by farm size in the project
area, particularly regarding the two larger model farm;



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b) agriculture in the project area is already quite intensive,
and the increment of labor due to the project is difficult
to determine accurately without additional survey data;
(c) management skills cannot be easily quantified in monetary
terms; and
(d) the farmers' investment in equipment and farm improvements
can only be estimated approximately without detailed socio-
economic surveys.
10.       Assuming that all project rent is spent for consumption and not
saved, the optimum water charges would be zero for those households with
incomes below the critical consumption level (CCL) and 100% of the project
rent for those with incomes above that level. The estimated Korean's CCL
is US$165/capita (1976 prices). At present, an estimated 33% of the farm-
ers (0.6 ha farm or less) are below the CCL. At full project development,
an estimated 15% of the farmers (0.4 ha farm or less) would be below.
11.       A forthcoming Bank economic mission will review price policies in
the agriculture sector and urban/rural income distribution which have a bear-
ing on appropriate levels of cost recovery. At present, the Government's
repayment policy is uniform throughout the country, and laid down by law.
Any change to this law should await discussion of the mission findings with
the Government.



ANNEX 9
Table I
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1L/
Rent Recovery
Farm
0.5 ha       1.5 ha      2.5 ha
----------(Won'OO0)----------
1.  Incremental  -  Gross Value of Farm Production                                          195          812          1,350
2.                -  Less Production Cash Costs                                              28          136            311
3.                   Sub-total                                                              167          676          1,039
4.                -  Less Depreciation 2/                                                     8           24             41
5.                -  Less Imputed Family Labor Value 3/                                      14           47              3
6.                -  Less Imputed Farmer's Management  4/                                    20           81            135
7.                -  Less Imputed Return on own Capital  5/                                   8           20             32
8.                -  Less Allowance for Risk/Uncertainity  6/                                39          163            270
9.                -  Less Additional Taxes                                                   11           49             81
10.  Equals Rent/Surplus                                                                      67          292            477
11.  Incremental  -  Water Charges                                                            10           27             45
12.                -  Capital Repayments    _                                                 14           47             77
13.                -  Total Direct Charges L (11) + (12) _/                                   25           74            122
14.  Rent Recovery  (%) 7/                                                                    27           18             19
15.  Incremental  -  Water Charges                                                            10           27             45
16.                -  Capital Repayments                                                      26           77            129
17.                -  Total Direct Charges f (15) + (16)7                                     36          104            174
18.  Rent Recovery (%) 8/                                                                     36           23             24
1/  Figures from Annex 8, Table 6.
2/  Equipment @ 5% of cost; buildings @ 3%; land development works @ 2%.
3/  At Won 1,450 per man-day.
4/  At 10% of gross incremental farm income.
5/  At 10% of farmers' own incremental investment funds.
6/  At 20% of gross incremental farm income.
7/  In net present values, time streams discounted at 10% over 35 years; irrigation capital repayments at 3.5% interest
with five years grace, then 30 years of repayments; upland capital repayments over eight years at 9% interest.
Capital repayments were discounted at 7% annual interest for expected general inflation.
8/  Similar to No. 7, except irrigation capital repayment.at 9.0% interest.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        All prices have been adjusted to January, 1976 levels.  All farm-
inputs and output were evaluated at projected 1985 farm-gate prices expressed
in January, 1976 constant prices.
2.        The farm-gate rice price is calculated as follows:
US$/ton (milled basis)
Forecast 1985 world market price
(in January, 1976 constant dollars) /L               350
Ocean freight and insurance                              35
Import price cif Incheon/Busan                         385
Rice Price, project area /2                             385
Value of by-product (straw)                              30
Farm-gate rice price                                    415
(Won 232,000) /3
/1  The commodity price forecast for Thai 5% broken fob Bangkok
in 1985 (in terms of mid-1976 constant dollars) is US$359/ton.
This price was adjusted to a January, 1976 unit value by
using a conversion factor equal to 96.8 (mid-1976 = 100). Most
of Korea's rice imports are of U.S. origin and are equivalent
to or better than Thai 5% broken in quality.
/2 The value of port handling charges is taken as equal to the
value of inland transport costs. The cost of milling has
been assumed offset by the value of bran produced.
/3 Using shadow foreign exchange Won 560 = US$1.
3.        Since no world market price projection is available for barley in-
tended for human consumption, polished barley was assumed to be worth 85% of
the value of wheat flour, based on observed trends. This ratio reflects the



ANNEX 10
Page 2
taste preference of Korean consumers for wheat flour. Prices of soybean,
tobacco and fertilizer are based on the Bank's projection of 1985 world market
prices. For the remaining crops, which are not traded internationally, prices
used were actual farm-gate prices averaged over five years (1971-75) and
adjusted for inflation. All commodity prices were converted from an fob to a
farmgate basis by adding US$35 per ton, to represent the average value of
insurance, shipping and inland transport to the major market centers minus
the cost of transporting the farm produce to the market centers. Table I
shows all present and future prices used in the economic analysis and farm
budget analysis.
Foreign Exchange
4.        Due to the existence of import taxes, quantitative restrictions
and export subsidies, the official exchange rate of Won 485 = US$1 under-
states the cost to the economy of foreign exchange used in carrying out the
project and savings through increased foodgrain production. According to
the results of studies conducted by the Korean Development Institute, the
effective rate of foreign exchange is about 15% higher than the nominal rate.
Therefore, a shadow foreign-exchange rate of Won 560 = US$1 has been used to
value the internationally traded commodities and foreign-exchange component
of inputs and construction costs.
Labor Analysis
5.        The demand for labor in the rural areas of Korea is highly seasonal
in character. During the cropping season (April to October) there is little
unemployment and in peak months (June and October) labor shortages may even
develop. As the rural labor force is relatively mobile, the labor market
works fairly efficiently and therefore the observed market wage rate for the
hired labor provides a good estimate of the opportunity cost of farm labor
during the cropping season. Thus the labor has been valued at Won 1,600/
man-day for the cropping season. During the winter season, there is little
wage farm employment. There is, however, some self-employment, notably the
weaving of bags from rice straw. The net income from this activity is about
Won 500/man-day and the value has been used as the opportunity cost of un-
skilled labor in the winter months, November to March. For the purposes of
this analysis, it was assumed that, on the average, 85% of farm labor require-
ment occurs during the main season and 15% during the off-season. The re-
sulting weighted average labor cost is Won 1,450/day.
Benefits
6.        Benefits are estimated from the increased crop production resulting
from the irrigation and land development; and time savings and a reduction in
transport costs arising from the village access road development. Benefits
have not been individually quantified for the stream channel improvement com-
ponent as this is regarded as a complementary investment to the other project
works. The expected crop yields, prices, gross returns, production costs,
net returns (without accounting for labor costs), and labor requirements per



ANNEX 10
Page 3
ha are shown in Annex 8. Chart 15823 shows the proposed cropping calendar.
Transportation cost savings result from the time savings of using trucks
rather than man-carried A-frames (chigae) to transport agricultural inputs
and outputs. The basis for the savings are the same as those explained in
Annex 20 of the Appraisal of the Rural Infrastructure Project (Report No.
958a-KO, February 15, 1976). They are estimated at US$1.3 million per year.
Table 2 shows the expected project benefits at full agricultural development
of the project.
Investment Costs
7.        As calculated for the economic analysis and expressed in January,
1976 prices, the total investment cost is US$38.9 million. This consists
of dams and canals (US$23.6 million); land development (US$14.0 million);
surveys, mapping, vehicles and technical assistance (US$1.0 million) and
farmers' development cost for initial orchard establishment (US$0.3 million).
In determining the US$ value of investment costs, local costs were converted
at the shadow exchange rate of US$1 = Won 560 (para 4). Investment costs
have been adjusted to exclude taxes and transfer payments (construction costs
reduced 10%), and reflect the use of unskilled labor in off-season periods
(construction costs reduced 5%). Costs include physical contingencies, but
exclude price contingencies. Estimated annual 0 & M costs are US$57/ha
for the irrigated area. As the evaluation is only over 35 years, the proj-
ect facilities are assumed to have a salvage value of 25% of their original
cost at the end of the evaluation period. The investment costs do not in-
clude any allowance for the farmer's own investment in on-farm development
in areas to be irrigated, as this is a small proportion of total costs,
highly variable between different areas and thus difficult to quantify. As
the work would be spread over several months and would be done at times
when the farmer would otherwise be unemployed, the opportunity cost of this
labor would be small and hence has been neglected.
Development Period
8.        According to the project implementation schedule, the Kumwang
dam (1,500 ha), Maengdong dam (2,360 ha), and the Baekgok dam (1,685) areas
would be completed in early 1980, and the 1980 rice crop would be first grown
under improved conditions (total areas, 5,545 ha); the Weonnam dam (1,570 ha),
small dams (1,200 ha) and all land development (4,350 ha) areas would be com-
pleted from early to mid-1981, and the 1981 crops would be the first under
improved conditions (total area, 7,120 ha). Commencing with the first crop
grown under upgraded conditions, farmers would achieve the projected yield
levels over five years in equal instalments. The orchards would reach maxi-
mum pr:oduction in 12 years.  The project would reach full development in
1986; ez.cept for orchards which would reach full production five years later
in 1991.
9.        1Li.-; the foregoing assumptions and discounting the project's bene-
fits and cost  over 35 years, the economic rate of return is 15% (Table 6).



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Sensitivity Analysis
10.       Sensitivity of the rate of return was tested to cost overruns;
reductions and delays in benefits; and a 25% increase in project benefits.
The effects of these changes in assumptions were as follows:
Alternative                                     Rate of Return
(%)
(a)  A 20% increase in construction costs                       14
(b)  A two-year delay in reach full project benefits            13
(c) A combination of a 20% increase in construction
costs and a two-year delay in reaching full
project benefits                                         12
(d) A 25% decrease in project benefits because farmers
failed to attain projected yields and/or cropping
intensity                                                12
(e) A 25% increase in project benefits due to higher
commodity prices                                         18
Project Components
11.       Using the general assumptions already described, the following
project components were evaluated individually: each of the four dams' sys-
tems and service areas; the small dams and their service areas; upland rec-
lamation of 1,200 ha; and land consolidation of the 3,150 ha already irri-
gated. Costs of other project works, (conversion of uplands to paddy,
irrigated upland development, orchard development, remaining 1,450 ha land
consolidation, village access roads, and channel improvements), which are
regarded as complementary investments to other project works, were included
under the appropriate foregoing component. Investment costs for each com-
ponent are:
Kumwang dam US$7.1 million, consisting of dams and canals
(US$5.6 million), land development, village access roads
and channel improvement (US$1.5 million);
Maengdong dam US$8.1 million, consisting of dams and canals
(US$6.2 million), land development, village access roads
and channel improvement (US$1.9 million);
Baekgok dam US$5.5 million, consisting of dams and canals
(US$4.3 million), land development, village access roads,
and channel improvement (US$1.2 million);
Weonnam dam US$6.4 million, consisting of dams and caala
(US$4.9 million), land development, village access :-oads,
and channel improvement (US$1.5 million);



ANNEX 10
Page 5
Small dams US$5.2 million, consisting of dams and canals
(US$4.4 million), land development, village access roads
and channel improvements (US$0.8 million);
Upland Reclamation (1,200 ha) US$1.8 million consisting of
reclamation works (US$1.7 million), village access roads
(US$0.1 million); and
Land Consolidation (3,150 ha) US$4.8 million, consisting
of consolidation works (US$3.4 million), villages access
roads and channel improvements (US$1.4 million).
Table 2 shows the expected sub-project's benefits at full agricultural develop-
ment; Tables 3 to 5 show the derivation of agricultural benefits; and Tables
7 and 8 show the expected time flows of sub-project costs and benefits. The
rates of return are as follows:
Component                         Rate of Return
Kumwang Dam                                   13
Maengdong Dam                                 17
Baekgok Dam                                   15
Weonnam Dam                                   12
Small Dams                                    12
Upland Reclamation (1,200 ha)                 35
Land Consolidation (3,150 ha)                 14
12.       Sensitivity of these rates of return was tested to cost overruns
and to reductions and delays in the benefits. The results (Table 9) show
less sensitivity to cost overruns and delays in reaching full project bene-
fits than to level of benefits. Except for a 25% decrease in projected
benefits from the Weonnam dam and the Small dams, however, in none of cases
tested would the rate of return fall below 10%. On the other hand, if the
level of benefits are 25% higher than forecasted, the rates of return would
be 2 to 3% higher than the base estimates.



ANNEX 10
Table 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Input and Output Prices
(Won'000/ton)
Present                     Future
Financial    Economic       Financial    Economic
Crops
HYV Rice                              266          266            266           232
Local Variety Rice                   266           266            266           232
Coimmon Barley                       145           131            145          131
White Potato                          66            66             66            66
Soybean                              182           153            182           185
Tobacco                              630           784            630           784
Red Pepper                         1,215         1,215          1,215        1,215
Sesane                               720           720            720           720
Chinese Cabbage                       38            38             38            38
Sweet Potato                          53            53             53            53
Apples                               120           120            120           120
Pears                                  93           93             93            93
Fertilizers (per nutrient ton)
Nitrogen                              168          350            168           198
Phosphate                            140           355            140           173
Potash                                 54           68             54            55
Pesticides
Pesticides                         1,425         1,455          1,425         1,455
Seeds
HYV Rice                             180           180            232           194
Local Variety Rice                   180           180            180           155
Common Barley                        100           100            100           100
White Potato                         100           100            100           100
Soybean                              200           200            200           200
Tobacco (Won/ha)                  20,000        205000         20,000        20,000
Red Pepper (Won/ha)               18,000        18,000         18,000        18,000
Sesame                                720           :0            720           720
Chinese Cabbage (Won/ha)          23,500        23 , 3O        23,500        23,500
Sweet Potato                           55           55             55            55



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Net Value of Agricultural Production at Full Project Development
Net Return to Project Area21            Incremental          Less Incremental             Incremental Net Value
Without Costing Farm Labor-             Net Return          Farm Labor Cost 1/                of Production
-----------(Won million)----------         (Won million)            (Won million)          (Won million)        (US$'000)
Without Project        'With Project
Complete Project                                7,440                13,720                 6,280                   720                   5,5b0               9,928
Kumwang Dam                                        778                1,921                 1,143                    90                   1,053               1,880
Maengdong Dam                                   1,341                 2,962                 1,621                   126                    1,495              2,669
Baegkok Dam                                        967                1,797                   830                    63                      767              1,370
Weonnam Dam                                        964                1,613                   649                    51                      598               1,068
Small Dams                                        674                 1,364                   690                    63                      627              1,120
Land Consolidation (3,150 ha)                   2,676                 3,216                   540                    45                      495                 884
tlpland Reclamation (1,200 ha)                      40                   847                   807                  282                       525               937
1/  The difference in total farm labor requirement between "with" and "without" project conditions costed at
Won 1,450/manday.
2/ From Tables 3, 4 and 5; and from Annex 7, Tables 2 and 3.
m
go 1-f
0Jl



ANNEX 10
Table 3
KQREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production
Gross Value                          Net Value         Net Returns
Farm Gate            of             Product)on            of               from
Ares          Yield              Price           Production         Coat              P production     Proiect Area
(ha)         (ton/ha)        (Won '000/ton)   ----------------(Won '000/ha)---------------    (Won million)
Kumwang Dam
Irrigated
Rice                     V'2/
W          1,300            4.5                232              1,044              143                901               1,171
Barley                   W             -               -                  -                 -                 -                  -                   -
W            410            2.6                131                341              101                240                   98
Orchard                  W             -               -                  -                 -                 -                  -                  -
W            200           35.6                114              4,058              800              3,258                  652
Rainfed
Rice                     W             995           2.9                 232                673              118                555                 552
1_                           _                   _                 _                 _                  _                  _
Barley                   W             290           2.2                 131                288               81                207                   60
W4           -               -                  _                 _                  _                  _                  _
UplandW28
IJptsnd           14~          ~~~ 285          --                                                      --159
W4           -               -                  -                 _                  _                  _                  _
Uncultivated Forest    W               200           2.5                  13                 33               -                  33                    7
W4           -               -                  -                  _                 _                  _                  _
Total                      W                                                                                                                          778
W                                                                                                                       1,921
Increment                                                                                                                                           1,143
Maengdong Dam
Irrigated
Rice                     W             -               -                  -                 -                 -                  - _
W1         1,840            4.5                232              1,044              143                 901              1,658
Barley                    -            -               -                  -                 -                 -                  -_
W            730            2.6                131                341              101                 240                 175
Upland                   W             -               -                  -                 -                 -                  -                   -
W            345             -                  -                 -                  -                  -                  412
Orchard                 iW             -               -                  -
W            220           35.6                114              4,058              800              3,258                  717
Rainfed
Rice                     W           1,205           2.9                 232                673              118               555                  669
W            -               -                  -                 -                  _                  _                  _
Barley                   W             600            2.2                131                288               81                207                 124
14           -               -                  -                 _                  _                  -                  _
Upland                   W7            940             -                  -                 -                 -                  -                  541
W4           -               -                  _                 -                  _                  -                  _
Uncultivated Forest    W               220            2.5                 13                 33               -                  33                    7
W            -               -                  -                 -                 -                   _                  _
Total                      W                                                                                                                        1,341
W                                                                                                                       2,962
Increment                                                                                                                                           1,621
1/ From Annex 8; economic cost excluding labor.
2/ W = Future without the project;
W = Future with project.



ANNEX 10
Table 4
KOREA
MIhO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production
Gross Value                        Net Value        Net Returns
Farm Gate           of           Production            of              from
Area            Yield             Price          Production        Cost 1/         Production        Project Area
(ha)           (ton/ha)       (Won '000/ton)           ---(Won '000/ha)--- --------               (Won million)
Baekgok Dam
Irrigated
Rice                    W42/          -               -                 -                 -                -               -
W          1,550            4.5               232              1,044             143              901              1,397
Barley                  W             -               -                 -                 -                -                -
W            535            2.6               131                341             101              240                128
Upland                  W            _                -                 _-                                 -                - 
W4            95             -                  -                -                -                -                 109
orchard                 W-                                              -                 -                -                -
W             50           35.6               114              4,058             800            3,258                163
Rainfed
Rice                    W            935             2.9               232                623             118              555                519
W            -               -                  -                -                 -               _
Barley                  W4           415             2.2               131                288              81              207                 86
14           -               -                  _                _                 -               - 
Upland                  W             620             -                 -                 -                -                -                 357
14                                                               _ -                               _ -
Uncultivated Forest    1              135            2.5                13                 33              -                33                  5
14           -               -                  _                -                -                -         
Total                     W                                                                                                                      967
______   ~ ~ ~ ~ w1,797
Increment                                                                                                                                       830
Small Dams
Irrigated
Rice                                                                    -
W          1,120            4.5               232             1,044              143             901               1,009
Barley                  W             -               -                 -                 -                -                -
W            390            2.6               131                341             101              240                 94
Orchard                 W             -               -                 -                 -                -                -
W             80           35.6               114              4,058             800           3,258                 261
Rainfed
Rice                    W             990            2.9               232                673             118             555                 550
W            -               -                  -                -                 _               _
Barley                  1             210            2.2               131                288              81             207                  43
Upland                  W4            135             -                 -                 -                -               -                   78
Uncultivated Forest    W               80            2.5                13                 33              -               33                   3
Total                     W                                             .                                                                       674
wr                                                                                                                 1,364
Increment                                                                                                                                       6
1/ From Annex 8; economic cost excluding labor.
2/ 14 - Future without the project;
W = Future with the project.



ANNEX 10
Table 5
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Nat Value of Production
Gross Value                          Net Value         Net Return
Farm Gate             of             Productign            of                 from
Area             Yield               Price           Production           Cost V          Produiction       Project Area
(ha)            (ton/ha)        (Won '000/ton)    ----------------(Won '000/ha)-------------             (Won million)
Weonnam Dam
Irrigated
Rice                     W2/           -                 -                  -                 -                  -                 -
W          1,460              4.5                232              1,044               143               901               1,315
Barley                   W             -                 -                  -                 -                  -                 -
W            605              2.6                131                341               101                240                 145
Upland                   W             -                 -                  -                 -                  -                 -
W            135               -                  -                 -                   -                 -                  153
Rainfed
Rice                     W          1,100               2.9                232                673               118               555                  611
W            -                 -                   _                 _                  _                 _
Barley                   W             375             2.2                 131                288                81               207                  78
Upland                   W4            480               -                  -                 -                  -                 -                  275
14           -                 -                  -                  _                  _                 _         
Total                      W                                                                                                                             964
w                                                                                                                          1,613
649
Increment                                                                                                                                                =
Upland Reclamation (k,200 ha
Rain fed
Barley                                 -
W            600              2.4                131               314                 99                215                 129
Red Pepper               W4            -                 -                  -                 -                  -                 -
W            145              1.3              1,215             1,580                136             1,444                  209
Tobacco                  W             -                 -                  -                 -                  -                 -                  _
W             50              2.1                784             1,646                174             1,472                   74
Oil Seeds                W             -                 -                  -                 -                  -                 -
W            540              0.9                302               272                  51               221                 119
Vegetables               W4            -                 -                  -                 -                  -                 -
W            410             17.0                 52               884                 113               771                 316
Uncultivated F'ornst   14           1,200               2.5                 13                33                 -                 33                  40
W            _                 _                   _                 _                  _                 _
Total                      W                                                                                                                              40
W                                                                                                                            847
Increment                                                                                                                                                807
Land Consolidation (3.150 ha)
Irrigated
Rice                     W           3,150              3.9                232               905                124               781               2 460
W          3,150              4.5                232             1,044                 143               901               2,838
Barley                   W             950              2.4                131               314                 87                227                 216
W          1,575              2.6               .131               341                 101               240                 378
Total                      W4                                                                                                                          2,676
w                                                                                                                          3,216
Increment                                                                                                                                                540
1/ From Annex 8; ecoaomic cost exzluding labor.
2/ W = Future without the project;
W = Future with project.



ANNEX 10
Tabe 6
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits: All Components
(US$ million)
Project Costs                  Incremental
Year                        Capital      0 & M       Total        Project Benefits
1          (1976)          0.3           0          0.3                0
2          (1977)          5.4           0          5.4                0
3          (1978)          9.0           0          9.0                0
4          (1979)         11.3           0         11.3                0
5          (1980)          7.8         0.3          8.1              0.7
6          (1981)          5.J         0.5          5.6              2.3
7          (1982)            0         0.5         0.5               3.9
8          (1983)            0         0.5         0.5               5.5
9          (1984)            0         0.5          0.5              7.1
10          (1985)            0         0.5          0.5              8.5
11          (1986)            0         0.5          0.5              8.9
12          (1987)            0         0.5          0.5              9.4
13          (1988)            0         0.5          0.5              9.8
14          (1989)            0         0.5          0.5             10.3
15          (1990)            0         0.5          0.5             10.8
16          (1991)            0         0.5          0.5             11.2
17-34    (1992-2009)             0         0.5         0.5              11.2
35          (2010)            0         0.5          0.5             20.3
Economic Rate of Return                                                  15%



ANNEX 10
Table 7
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Cost and Returns
(US$ million)
Project Costs                    Incremental                                     Project Costs                     Incremental
Year      Capital       0 & M      Total        Project Benefits               Year        Capital       0 & M       Total        Project Benefits
Kumwang Dam                                                                    Maengdong Dam
1        0.2            0         0.2                 0                        1          0.2            0         0.2                 0
2        1.4            0         1.4                 0                        2          1.6            0          1.6                0
3        2.2            0         2.2                 0                        3          2.5            0          2.5                0
4        2.6            0         2.6                 0                        4          3.0            0          3.0                 0
5        0.7            0         0.7              0.2                          5         0.8          0.1          0.9              .3
6          0          0.1         0.1               0.4                         6           0          0.1          0.1              0.6
7          0         0.1          0.1              0.5                         7            0          0.1          0.1              1.0
8          0          0.1         0.1              0.7                          8           0          0.1          0.1              1.3
9          0         0.1          0.1              1.0                         9            0          0.1          0.1              1.8
10          0         0.1          0.1              1.2                        10            0          0.1          0.1              1.9
11          0         0.1          0.1               1.3                       11            0          0.1          0.1              2.1
12          0          0.1         0.1               1.5                       12            0          0.1          0.1              2.3
13          0         0.1          0.1               1.6                       13            0          0.1          0.1              2.4
14          0          0.1         0.1               1.7                       14            0          0.1          0.1              2.6
15          0          0.1         0.1               1.9                       15            0          0.1          0.1              2.7
16          0          0.1         0.1               2.0                       16            0          0.1          0.1              2.9
17-34           0         0.1          0.1              2.0                    17-34             0         0.1          0.1               2.9
35          0          0.1         0.1               3.7                       35            0          0.1          0.1              4.8
Economic Rate of Return                                 13%                    Economic Rate of Return                                    17%
Baegkok Dam                                                                      Small Dams
I          0            0            0                0                        1          0.2            0         0.2                 0
2        0.2            0         0.2                 0                        2          0.9            0          0.9                0
3        2.4            0         2.4                 0                        3          1.0            0          1.0                0
4        2.4            0         2.4                 0                         4         1.2            0          1.2                 0
5        0.5         0.1          0.6               0.2                        5          1.1            0          1.1              0.1
6          0         0.1          0.1               0.5                         6         0.8            0          0.8              0.2
7          0         0.1          0.1               0.7                        7            0          0.1          0.1              0.3
8          0         0.1          0.1               1,0                        8            0          0.1          0.1              0.5
9          0         0.1          0.1               1,2                        9            0          0.1          0.1              0.6
10          0         0.1          0.1               1.3                       10            0          0.1          0.1              0.8
11          0         0.1          0.1               1.3                       11            0          0.1          0.1              0.9
12          0         0.1          0.1               1.3                       12            0          0.1          0.1              0.9
13          0          0.1         0.1               1.4                        13           0          0.1          0.1              1.0
14          0          0.1         0.1               1.4                        14           0          0.1          0.1              1.1
15          0          0.1         0.1               1,4                        15           0          0.1          0.1              1.1
16          0         0.1          0.1               1.5                        16           0          0.1          0.1              1.2
17-34           0         0.1          0.1              1.5                    17-34             0         0.1          0.1               1.2
35          0          0.1          0.1              2.9                       35             0         0.1          0.1               2.3
Economic Rate of Return                                  15%                    Economic Rate of Return                                   12%



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Returns
(US$ million)
Project Costs                     Incremental                                    Project Costs                      Incremental
Year       Capital      0 & M      Total          Project Benefits               Year       Capital       0 & M      Total          Project Benefits
Weonnam Dam                                                                  Upland Reclamation
1           0           0           0                  0                         1           0            0           0                   0
2        0.2            0         0.2                  0                         2         0.1            0         0.1                   0
3         1.3           0         1.3                  0                         3         0.4            0         0.4                   0
4         2.0           0         2.0                  0                         4         0.6            0         0.6                   0
5        2.3            0         2.3                  0                         5         0.6            0         0.6                   0
6         0.6           0         0.6                0.2                         6         0.1            0         0.1                0.3
7           0         0.1         0.1                0,5                         7           0            0            0               0.6
8           0         0.1         0.1                0.7                         8            0           0           0                0.9
9           0         0.1         0.1                0.9                         9            0           0            0                1,2
10-34           0         0.1         0.1                1.2                     10-34            0            0           0                1.4
35           0         0.1         0.1                2.8                        35            0           0            0                1.9
Economic Rate of Return                                   12%                    Economic Rate of Return                                    35%
Land Consolidation (3,150 ha)
1           0           0           0                  0
2         1.0           0         1.0                   0
3         1.0           0         1.0                  0
4         1.2           0         1.2                   0
5         1.2           0         1.2                   0
6         0.4           0         0.4                0.2
7           0           0           0                0.4
8           0           0           0                0.6
9           0           0           0                0.8
10-34           0            0           0                1.0
35           0           0           0                2.2
Economic Rate of Return                                   167.
>c
H
c-



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis: Project Co_ponents
Kumwang   Maengdong    Baegkok   Weonnam    Small         Upland         Land
Dam         Dam         Dam        Dam      Dams      Reclamation   Consolidation
---------------------- _-_----------------  ---------------------------------------
Best Estimate                         13          17          15         12       12           35             1L
Construction Costs
increased 20%                      12          15           13        10        11           31             12
Benefits delayed by 2 years           12          14          12         10       10           26             11
Benefits decreased by 25%             11          14          11          9        9           30             11
Benefits Increased by 25%            16           20          18         15       15           40             16



ANNEX 11
Table 1
KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF CRITICAL EVENTS
Responsible       Target
Activity                                             Agency           Date
A.   Irrigation Development (Dams and Canals)             OWD/ADC
1.   Civil works contracts (ICB)
(a) Complete detailed engineering design,
tender documents, prequalification
and advertise
i.  Kunwang, Maengdong dams and small                   Feb., 1977
dams
ii.  Baekgok and Weonnam dams                            Feb., 1978
(b) Evaluate bids and award contracts
i.  Kumwang, Maengdong dams                             July, 1977
ii.  Baekgok and Weonnam dams, and small dams            July, 1978
(c) Start construction
i.  Kumwang, Maengdong dams and small dams              Oct., 1977
ii.  Baekgok and Weonnam dams, and small dams            Oct., 1978
B.   Land Development                                      OWD/ADC
1.   Civil works contracts (ICB)
(a) Complete detailed design, tender docu-
ments, prequalification, and advertise (ICB)
i.  Land consolidation                                  Feb., 1977
ii.  Furrow irrigation                                   Feb., 1978
iii.  Orchards                                            Mar., 1978
iv.  Conversion to paddy                                 Feb., 1977
v.  Upland reclamation                                  Feb., 1978
(b)  Evaluate bids and award contracts
i.  Land consolidation                                  July, 1977
ii.  Furrow irrigation                                    July, 1978
iii.  Orchards                                             July, 1978
iv.  Conversion to Paddy                                 July, 1977
v.  Upland Reclamation                                   July, 1978
(c) Start construction
i.  Land consolidation                                  Oct., 1977
ii.  Furrow irrigation                                    Oct., 1978
iii.  Orchards                                             Oct., 1978
iv.  Conversion to Paddy                                  Oct., 1977
v.  Upland reclamation                                   Oct., 1978



ANNEX 11
Table 1
Responsible       Target
Activity                                            Agency           Date
C.   Channel Improvement                                   OWD
1.   Civil works contracts (ICB)
(a) Complete detailed design, tender docu-
ments, prequalifications and advertise
(ICB).                                                  Mar., 1977
(b)  Evaluate bids and award contracts                      Aug., 1977
(c)  Start construction                                     Oct., 1977
D.   Access Roads                                          OWD
2.   Period of construction                                      Oct., 1977
-June 1979



KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Work Item                  1976             1977           1978            1979             1980           1981
Dam and Canals:
Kumwang                    ;;/i198mm  is.sm.g.) u)                            /
Maengdong                    9                  i                                          "///,,
Baekgok                    //////          /////      /        /                   //////          //////
Weonnam                     //////         /.              /////.
Small Dams                      /                   t            jl        (5;;;
7/7/7/         /7/77/          //////          /7/7//          /7/7//          /777/'
Land Development:                    ,///           //7            //777           ///7//          //77           //   -
Conversion to paddy                                                                            ,1/////I I  *EEIPUP ff_  hW*1R_ RI.1E_IME  /77/,
Land Consolidation         (/i//As uuu.uhSvM                                                               // / /
Furrow Irrigation          /55,              ;;            '        ,,"' .
Upland Reclamation         ,'/,,/7,A7 H799,%9J                  L         _5/;                       -
Orchards                               I I aI quJ9n rnur)l I   in           5;;;;;                /             //<
Channel Improvement                 >5          i6(5  54      S                               -   5;;;;;          >7>
/7//7/          /7/77/         /7/7//          /////7          7//7//          /7/7//
Access Roads                                       //////                          /////            //7/            //7
Surveys and Mapping                7                                   .            .              7/7/7/          "  "'-,
.           ~~/7/7//         7777/7         /77777           /7/777          /7/7/7         /7/7//
/7////         777/7/          /7/777          7/77//          /7/7/7          //7/77   .
______ /7       /7//// //7/                     / /7/    ,7/7/7 ///7
***|**** Preparation of design and tender documents,
bidding and award of contracts.
Construction
Rainy season
World Bank-15823






KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Cropping Calendar
(Month)
CROP                  J      F      M      A      M      J      J      A      s      0     N      D
Barley-                                -      -      --
Rice                                                        ...                         -
Soybeans                                                     _                 - __
Soybeans (after barley)                                             _          - _ _
Sesame                                                                  _  _       _ 
Red Pepper                                           .           -      - ._
Tobacco                                              ._
Cabbage or Radish               .          ..                                    ... _
Lettuce, Spinach                                                 -
Melons, Cucumbers, Tomatoes                           _        _ _
Sweet Potato                                            .        _
White Potato                    _ _
.....N..  ursery or Seedbed
Sowing
-   -  Vegetative Stage
-~~-~  Harvest
RAINFALL AND TEMPERATURE
(mm)
= Ave. rainfall (mm)
350                = Mean monthly temp. (C)
311
300                                                    283
250
200
150
150
125
100                     ~~~~~~98                                               (C
100 ~~~~5 85                              26.1 25.7                                30
21.7 r-'-
- -           ~~19.3
1.8  44                                              20
50    36                 11.7 Fr                                   11.9
35~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
3.8 I                                               L101
-2.1  -0.1                                                                j16    0
0                                                                            L.- 
J      F     M      A      M      J      J      A      S     0       N     D
World Bank-15824






KOREA
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Agricultural Development Corporation (Simplified)
I Aaditor     -  _   _;   ;
Agriculturalic Pesdet 
L C  L I                                               LW ~~~~~~~~~~~~~amland E.pans-o and
General Affairs       Deaelopment        Suraey and Design          General Projects     Special Projects
Department            Dent Depnt         D        t                 Department           Departmen
rTechnical            Agricaltural 
Cooperation           Engineering
Department            Laboratory
REGIONAL AND LOCAL
Kumgang              Ppongtaek           Yong San Gang              Waeshed             Kongf7]                                                                | Prnntipal P a ent
0 fice                                       11  :r~~~~~~~~evlopment  rjctDtc
Project Of fice      Project Office       Project Ofe      =        Ofice                 rec Office
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4       Elght Branches /Provinciall Offices                                             _               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Faur Regional Corps
Gyoggi  ngweo Bag  Other Pour Jeonra  Gnng1e )
Nam  Bag  Nam        Bag            Nam             Provinces    ~~~~~~~~~Bag & Nam  ug&  a
W-ord Baec-t 5825jR)






IBRD 12022
KOREA                                 FEBRUARY 1976
MIHO WATERSHED AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATED AREAIEXISTING)
Incheon/r>    ,    t                                                                     l      . | PROPOSED IRRIGATION AREA
,I ,;  9 ,*UPLAND RECLAMATIONS
i1t- g 'EXISTING DAM
.t   i,.heonglu<;                                                        ; .   NEW DAMS
PROPOSED IRRIGATION CANALS
TO CHANGHYOWEON                             TOWNS
7g       Daeongu                                                              _____   _ r   .  ._  _  - ROADS
TO ANSEONG---.-.-- RAIL-WAYS
ANSE/ONG                                              -ZJ~   0 X jRIVERSAND RESERVOIRS
SUB WATERSHED BOUNDARIES
G U N                                               --  -      WATERSHED BOUNDARY
- -G--- COUNTY(GUN) BOUNDARIES
340              t4
7he bodan-es shown on Muhe op do not
iMplY endor-een or  ccepptn-e by the                                                              KUMWANG
WoeldBask-and is-ffdixiot,
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
kILOMETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ESR
E~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~\' 2;/ 4t- 6A   B r
--To CHEON6JU                                                i   
0      2       4      6       S      1.0                                                                                     60 roaEBJUSA
LOMETERS                                                                                                  )
.MAiL hu,_.



